
10-K
1
d283628d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
    
(Mark One) 


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
or   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from             to
            .  Commission File Number 1-11921 
   
E*TRADE Financial Corporation  (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)   
   






Delaware
 
94-2844166

 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
 1271 Avenue of the Americas, 14th Floor, New York, New York 10020  (Address of principal executive offices and Zip Code)  (646) 521-4300
 (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the act: 
 






Title of Each Class
 
Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
 
 The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC NASDAQ Global Select Market
 Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).     Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendments to this Form 10-K.    x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller
reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
 










Large accelerated filer  x
 
Accelerated filer
 
¨





Non-accelerated filer    ¨ (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).     Yes  ¨    No  x 
At June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $3.0 billion
(based upon the closing price per share of the registrant’s common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date). Shares of common stock held by each officer, director and holder of 5% or more of the outstanding common
stock have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes. 
Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date:
 As of February 17, 2012, there were 285,676,649 shares of common stock outstanding. 
   
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Certain portions of the definitive Proxy Statement related to the Company’s 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed hereafter (incorporated into Part III hereof). 
   
 


Table of Contents
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT  For the Year Ended December 31, 2011  TABLE OF
CONTENTS   










 PART I
 

  




Forward-Looking Statements
  
 
1
  

 Item 1.
 
Business 
  
 
1
  


 
 Overview
  
 
1
  


 
 Strategy
  
 
1
  


 
 Products and Services
  
 
2
  


 
 Sales and Customer Service
  
 
4
  


 
 Technology
  
 
4
  


 
 Competition
  
 
5
  


 
 Regulation
  
 
5
  


 
 Available Information
  
 
7
  

 Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
  
 
8
  

 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
19
  

 Item 2.
 
 Properties
  
 
20
  

 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
20
  





 PART II
 

  




 Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
25
  

 Item 6.
 
Selected Consolidated Financial Data
  
 
27
  

 Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
29
  


 
 Overview
  
 
29
  


 
 Earnings Overview
  
 
33
  


 
 Segment Results Review
  
 
46
  


 
 Balance Sheet Overview
  
 
51
  


 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources
  
 
55
  


 
 Risk Management
  
 
60
  


 
 Concentrations of Credit Risk
  
 
63
  


 
 Summary of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
  
 
72
  


 
 Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies
  
 
80
  


 
 Glossary of Terms
  
 
85
  

 Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
90
  

 Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
92
  


 
 Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
  
 
92
  


 
 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
93
  


 
 Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss)
  
 
95
  


 
 Consolidated Balance Sheet
  
 
96
  


 
 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
  
 
97
  


 
 Consolidated Statement of Shareholders’ Equity
  
 
98
  


 
 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
  
 
100
  


 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
102
  


 
 Note 1—Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
  
 
102
  


 
 Note 2—Facility Restructuring and Other Exit Activities
  
 
111
  


 
 Note 3—Operating Interest Income and Operating Interest Expense
  
 
112
  


 
 Note 4—Fair Value Disclosures
  
 
113
  


 
 Note 5—Available-for-Sale and Held-to-Maturity Securities
  
 
121
  


 
 Note 6—Loans Receivable, Net
  
 
125
  
  i 


Table of Contents











 
 Note 7—Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
  
 
133
  


 
 Note 8—Property and Equipment, Net
  
 
136
  


 
 Note 9—Goodwill and Other Intangibles, Net
  
 
137
  


 
 Note 10—Other Assets
  
 
138
  


 
 Note 11—Deposits
  
 
138
  


 
 Note 12—Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase and FHLB Advances and Other Borrowings
  
 
140
  


 
 Note 13—Corporate Debt
  
 
142
  


 
 Note 14—Other Liabilities
  
 
144
  


 
 Note 15—Income Taxes
  
 
145
  


 
 Note 16—Shareholders’ Equity
  
 
149
  


 
 Note 17—Earnings (Loss) per Share
  
 
151
  


 
 Note 18—Employee Share-Based Payments and Other Benefits
  
 
151
  


 
 Note 19—Regulatory Requirements
  
 
154
  


 
 Note 20—Lease Arrangements
  
 
155
  


 
 Note 21—Commitments, Contingencies and Other Regulatory Matters
  
 
155
  


 
 Note 22—Segment Information
  
 
161
  


 
 Note 23—Condensed Financial Information (Parent Company Only)
  
 
163
  


 
 Note 24—Quarterly Data (Unaudited)
  
 
166
  

 Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
166
  

 Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
  
 
166
  

 Item 9B.
 
Other Information
  
 
167
  



 PART III
   



 PART IV
   

 Item 15.
 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
168
  

 Signatures
  
 
171
  
    
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “the Company,” “we,” “us,” “our” and “E*TRADE” mean
E*TRADE Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries.  E*TRADE, E*TRADE Financial, E*TRADE Bank, Equity Edge,
OptionsLink and the Converging Arrows logo are registered trademarks of E*TRADE Financial Corporation in the United States and in other countries. 
  ii 


Table of Contents
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report contains forward-looking statements involving risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to our future plans,
objectives, expectations and intentions. These statements may be identified by the use of words such as “expect,” “may,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan” and similar expressions. Our actual results
could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements, and we caution that we do not undertake to update these statements. Factors that could contribute to our actual results differing from any forward-looking statements
include those discussed under Risk Factors, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report. The cautionary statements made in this report should be read as being applicable to
all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. We further caution that there may be risks associated with owning our securities other than those discussed in such filings. 
 


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS 
OVERVIEW  E*TRADE Financial Corporation is a financial services company that provides online brokerage and related products and services primarily to individual retail investors under the brand “E*TRADE
Financial.” Our primary focus is to profitably grow our online brokerage business, which includes our self-directed trading and investing customers. We also provide investor-focused banking products, primarily sweep deposits and savings
products, to retail investors. Our competitive strategy is to attract and retain customers by emphasizing value beyond price, ease of use and innovation, with delivery of our products and services primarily through online and technology-intensive
channels.  Our corporate offices are located at 1271 Avenue of the Americas, 14th Floor, New York, New York 10020. We were incorporated in California
in 1982 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 1996. We have approximately 3,200 employees. We operate directly and through numerous subsidiaries many of which are overseen by governmental and self-regulatory organizations. Our most significant
subsidiaries are described below:   


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Bank is a federally chartered savings bank that provides investor-focused banking products to retail customers nationwide and deposit accounts
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”);   


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Securities LLC is a registered broker-dealer and is a wholly-owned operating subsidiary of E*TRADE Bank. It is the primary provider of
brokerage products and services to our customers;   


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Clearing LLC is the clearing firm for our brokerage subsidiaries and is a wholly-owned operating subsidiary of E*TRADE Bank. Its main purpose
is to transfer securities from one party to another; and   


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Capital Markets, LLC is a registered broker-dealer and market maker. 
A complete list of our subsidiaries can be found in Exhibit 21.1. 
We provide services to customers in the U.S. through our website at www.etrade.com. In addition to our website, we also provide services
through our network of customer service representatives, investment professionals and investment advisors. We also provide these services over the phone or in person through our 28 E*TRADE branches. Information on our website is not a part of this
report.  STRATEGY   Our core business is our trading and investing customer franchise. Building on the strengths of this franchise, our growth strategy is focused on: 
 


 
•
 
 Strengthening our overall financial and franchise position. We are focused on strengthening our overall capital structure and continuing to
mitigate credit losses in our loan portfolio. We are also focused on positioning the Company for future growth and maintaining disciplined expense management. 
  1 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Improving our market position in our retail brokerage business. We plan to grow our customer base by continuing to increase our sales force,
focus on long-term investing and develop innovative products and services.   


 
•
 
 Accelerating the growth of our corporate services and market making businesses. Our corporate services and market making businesses enhance our
strategy by allowing us to realize additional economic benefit from our retail brokerage business.   


 
•
 
 Enhancing our position with long-term investors. We believe growing our investing and retirement products and services is key to our long term
success. Our primary focus is to expand the reach of our brand along with the awareness of our products to this key customer segment.   


 
•
 
 Optimizing the value of our bank franchise. Our retail brokerage business generates a significant amount of customer cash and we plan to
continue to utilize our bank to optimize the value of these customer deposits.  PRODUCTS AND
SERVICES  We assess the performance of our business based on our segments, trading and investing and balance sheet
management. We consider multiple factors, including the competitiveness of our pricing compared to similar products and services in the market, the overall profitability of our businesses and customer relationships when pricing our various products
and services. We manage the performance of our business using various customer activity and financial metrics, including daily average revenue trades (“DARTs”), average commission per trade, margin receivables, end of period brokerage
accounts, net new brokerage accounts, customer assets, net new brokerage assets, brokerage related cash, corporate cash, E*TRADE Financial Tier I leverage and common ratios, E*TRADE Bank Tier I capital ratio, special mention loan delinquencies,
allowance for loan losses, enterprise net interest spread and average enterprise interest-earning assets. Costs associated with certain functions that are centrally-managed are separately reported in a corporate/other category. 
Trading and Investing  Our trading and investing segment offers a full suite of financial products and services to individual retail investors. The most significant of these products and services are described below:
 Trading Products and Services   


 
•
 
 automated order placement and execution of U.S. equities, futures, options, exchange-traded funds and bond orders; 
 


 
•
 
 FDIC insured sweep deposit accounts that automatically transfer funds to and from customer brokerage accounts; 
 


 
•
 
 access to E*TRADE Mobile, which allows customers to securely trade stocks and options, monitor real-time investment, market and account information and
transfer funds between accounts via iPhone®, iPad®, AndroidTM or BlackBerry® smartphone; 
 


 
•
 
 use of Power E*TRADE Pro, our desktop trading software for qualified active traders, which provides customers with customization capabilities, an
expanded feature set and more news and information, plus live streaming news via CNBC TV;   


 
•
 
 an open applications programming interface (“Open API”) for third-party and independent software developers, which allows customers to have
access to technical information and documentation, reference guides, and other resources to help network external applications and programs with our active trader platform; 
 


 
•
 
 two-second execution guarantee on all qualified market orders for Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) 500 stocks and exchange-traded
funds; 
  2 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 margin accounts allowing customers to borrow against their securities; 
 


 
•
 
 cross-border trading, which allows customers residing outside of the U.S. to trade in U.S. securities; 
 


 
•
 
 access to international equities in Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan and the United Kingdom and foreign currencies, including the Canadian
dollar, Euro, Hong Kong dollar, Yen and Sterling; and   


 
•
 
 research and trading idea generation tools that assist customers with identifying investment opportunities including Analyst and Technical research,
Consensus Ratings, and market commentary from Morningstar, Dreyfus and BondDesk Group.  Long-Term Investing Products and
Services   


 
•
 
 use of the Investor Resource Center, which provides an aggregated view of our investing tools, market insights, independent research, education and
other investing resources;   


 
•
 
 flexible advisory services through Online Advisor, our investment advice tool designed to provide investors with actionable investment guidance,
including recommended asset allocations ranging from fully self-directed investing to 100 percent discretionary portfolio management from an affiliated registered investment advisor; 
 


 
•
 
 fixed income tools in our Bond Resource Center aimed at helping customers identify, evaluate and implement fixed income investment strategies;
  


 
•
 
 retirement planning resources including Retirement QuickPlan, an easy-to-use, four-step calculator that provides a customized action plan to help
customers get on track with personal retirement savings goals, and access to Chartered Retirement Planning
CounselorsSM who can provide customers with one-on-one
portfolio recommendations and personalized plans;   


 
•
 
 managed investment portfolio advisory services with an investment of $25,000 or more from an affiliated registered investment advisor, which provides
one-on-one professional portfolio management;   


 
•
 
 unified managed account advisory services with an investment of $250,000 or more from an affiliated registered investment advisor, which provides
customers the opportunity to work with a dedicated investment professional to obtain a comprehensive, integrated approach to asset allocation, investments, portfolio rebalancing and tax management; 
 


 
•
 
 no fee and no minimum individual retirement accounts; plus, Rollover Specialists to guide customers through the rollover process;
  


 
•
 
 access to more than 1,000 non-proprietary exchange-traded funds and over 8,000 non-proprietary mutual funds; 
 


 
•
 
 investing and trading educational services via online videos, web seminars and web tutorials; and 
 


 
•
 
 FDIC insured deposit accounts, including checking, savings and money market accounts. 
Corporate Services  We
offer software and services for managing equity compensation plans for corporate customers. Our Equity Edge platform facilitates the management of employee option plans, employee stock purchase plans and restricted stock plans, including necessary
accounting and reporting functions. This is a product of the trading and investing segment since it serves as an introduction to E*TRADE for many employees of our corporate customers who conduct equity option and restricted stock transactions, with
our goal being that these individuals will also use our other products and services. Our corporate services business received top ratings in overall satisfaction and loyalty among broker plan administrators by Group Five, an independent consulting
and research firm, in its 2011 Stock Plan Administration Benchmarking Study. 
  3 


Table of Contents
Market Making  Our trading and investing segment also includes market making activities which match buyers and sellers of securities from our retail brokerage business and unrelated third parties. As a market maker, we
take positions in securities and function as a wholesale trader by combining trading lots to match buyers and sellers of securities. Trading gains and losses result from these activities. Our revenues are influenced by overall trading volumes, trade
mix and the number of stocks for which we act as a market maker and the trading volumes and volatility of those specific stocks. 
Balance Sheet Management  The balance sheet management segment consists of the management of our balance sheet, focusing on asset allocation and managing credit, liquidity and interest rate risks. The balance sheet management
segment manages loans previously originated or purchased from third parties as well as our customer cash and deposits, which originate in the trading and investing segment.  For additional statistical information regarding products and customers, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)
beginning on page 29. Three years of segment financial performance and data can be found in the MD&A beginning on page 46 and in Note 22—Segment Information of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data beginning on page 161.
 SALES AND CUSTOMER SERVICE  We believe providing superior sales and customer service is fundamental to our business. Growing our sales force with a focus on long-term investing is one of the key factors in our growth strategy. We
also strive to maintain a high standard of customer service by staffing the customer support team with appropriately trained personnel who are equipped to handle customer inquiries in a prompt yet thorough manner. Our customer service
representatives utilize our proprietary web-based platform to provide customers with answers to their inquiries. We also have specialized customer service programs that are tailored to the needs of each customer group. 
We provide sales and customer support through the following channels of our registered broker-dealer and investment advisory
subsidiaries:   


 
•
 
 Branches—we have 28 branches located in the U.S. where retail investors can go to service any of their needs while receiving face to face
customer support. Financial consultants are also available on-site to help customers assess their current asset allocation.   


 
•
 
 Online—we have an Online Advisor tool available that provides asset allocation and a range of investment solutions that can be managed
online or through a dedicated investment professional. We also have an online service center where customers can request services on their accounts and obtain answers to frequently asked questions. The online service center also provides customers
with the ability to send a secure message to one of our customer service representatives.   


 
•
 
 Telephonic—we have a toll free number that connects customers to an automated phone system which will help ensure that they are directed to
the appropriate department where a financial consultant or licensed customer service representative can assist with their inquiry.  TECHNOLOGY  We believe our focus on being a
technological leader in the financial services industry enhances our competitive position. This focus allows us to deploy a secure, scalable technology and back office platform that promotes innovative product development and delivery. We continued
to increase our investments in these critical platforms in 2011, helping to drive significant efficiencies as well as enhancing our service and operational support capabilities. Our technology platform also enabled us to deliver trading and
investing functionality with the introduction of Open API, mobile offerings across new devices and the Equity Edge Online platform. 
  4 


Table of Contents
COMPETITION 
The online financial services market continues to evolve rapidly and we expect it to remain highly competitive. Our trading and investing
segment competes with full commission brokerage firms, discount brokerage firms, online brokerage firms, Internet banks, traditional “brick & mortar” retail banks and thrifts and market making firms. Some of these competitors
provide Internet trading and banking services, investment advisor services, touchtone telephone and voice response banking services, electronic bill payment services and a host of other financial products. Our balance sheet management segment
competes with investment banking firms and other users of market liquidity, in addition to the competitors above, in its quest for the least expensive source of funding.  The financial services industry has become more concentrated as companies involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired, merged or have declared bankruptcy. During the past four
years, this trend accelerated considerably as a significant number of U.S. financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge, or received substantial government assistance. We believe we can continue to attract customers by appealing to
retail investors by providing them with easy to use and innovative financial products and services.  We also face competition
in attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our ability to compete effectively in financial services will depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees while efficiently managing compensation
related costs.  REGULATION  Our business is subject to regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory and self-regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by various non-U.S. governmental agencies or regulatory or
self-regulatory bodies, securities exchanges and central banks, each of which has been charged with the protection of the financial markets and the protection of the interests of those participating in those markets. 
Our regulators, rulemaking agencies and primary securities exchanges in the U.S. include, among others, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (“NASDAQ”), the FDIC, the
Federal Reserve, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”). 
Both our brokerage and banking entities are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT ACT of 2001 (“BSA/USA
PATRIOT Act”), which contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws. In order to comply with the BSA/USA PATRIOT Act, we have established an Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) unit which is responsible for developing and
implementing enterprise-wide programs for compliance with the various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations.  For customer privacy and information security, under the rules of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, our brokerage and banking entities are required to disclose their privacy policies and practices
related to sharing customer information with affiliates and non-affiliates. The rules also give customers the ability to “optout” of having non-public information disclosed to third parties or receiving marketing solicitations from
affiliates and non-affiliates based on non-public information received from our brokerage and banking entities.  Brokerage Regulation
 Our broker-dealers are registered with the SEC and are subject to regulation by the SEC and by self-regulatory
organizations, such as FINRA and the securities exchanges of which each is a member, as well as various state regulators. Such regulation covers all aspects of the brokerage business, including, but not limited to, client protection, net capital
requirements, required books and records, safekeeping of funds and securities, trading, 
  5 


Table of Contents

prohibited transactions, public offerings, margin lending, customer qualifications for margin and options transactions, registration of personnel and transactions with affiliates. Our
international broker-dealers are regulated by their respective local regulators such as the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) and Hong Kong Securities & Futures Commission. 
Banking Regulation  Our
banking entities are subject to regulation, supervision and examination for safety and soundness by the OCC, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and by the CFPB for compliance with federal consumer finance laws. Such regulation covers all aspects of the
banking business, including lending practices, safeguarding deposits, customer privacy and information security, capital structure, transactions with affiliates and conduct and qualifications of personnel. 
Each of our banking entities has deposits insured by the FDIC and pays quarterly assessments to the Deposit Insurance Fund
(“DIF”), maintained by the FDIC, to pay for this insurance coverage. As of April 1, 2011, the assessment base for insured depository institutions was changed from domestic deposits, with some adjustments, to average consolidated total
assets minus average tangible equity. The FDIC also changed its methodology for calculating the assessment rate for E*TRADE Bank and other large and highly complex depository institutions. The new risk-based assessment utilizes a scorecard method
for calculating a large depository institution’s assessment rate based on a number of factors, including the institution’s CAMELS ratings, asset quality and brokered deposits. The FDIC will continue to assess the changes to the assessment
rates at least annually.  Financial Regulatory Reform Legislation and Basel III Accords 
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law on July 21, 2010 and
includes comprehensive changes to the financial services industry. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, our primary federal bank regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), was abolished in July 2011. The OTS’ regulatory oversight
responsibilities for the thrifts and parent company were transferred to the OCC and Federal Reserve, respectively. In addition, the CFPB will oversee compliance by the Company with federal consumer finance laws. Although the Dodd-Frank Act maintains
the federal thrift charter, and retains the previous lending and investment limitations for thrifts, it eliminates certain benefits of the charter. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires all companies, including savings and loan holding companies, that
directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution to serve as a source of strength for the institution.  The
Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, the details, substance and impact of which may not be known for months or years. However, the implementation of holding company capital
requirements will impact us as the parent company was not previously subject to capital requirements. We believe the requirements are an important measure of our capital strength and we are monitoring these requirements internally, using the current
capital ratios that apply to bank holding companies, as the requirements are expected to become effective by July 2015. We are currently in compliance with the current capital requirements that apply to bank holding companies, and we have no plans
to raise additional capital as a result of this new law.  The current risk-based capital guidelines that apply to E*TRADE Bank
are based upon the 1988 capital accords of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“BCBS”), a committee of central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the U.S. federal banking agencies, including the OCC,
commonly known as Basel I. In September, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the BCBS, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital and liquidity
requirements, known as the Basel III Accords. The final Basel III Accords were released in December, 2010 and are subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the U.S., beginning January 1, 2013. The Basel III Accords are
intended to strengthen the prudential standards for large and internationally active banks; however, they may impact how the U.S. regulators implement the Dodd-Frank Act 
  6 


Table of Contents

for other banking institutions, including the possibility of higher capital and liquidity requirements. The full impact of the Basel III Accords on the regulatory requirements to which we will be
subject is currently unclear, and will remain unknown for at least some time until implementing capital regulations are proposed and adopted. It is currently anticipated that U.S. banking regulators will propose regulations to implement the Basel
III Accords in the first quarter of 2012. We will continue to monitor the ongoing rule-making process to assess both the timing and the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III Accords on our business. 
For additional regulatory information on our brokerage and banking regulations, see Note 19—Regulatory Requirements of Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data beginning on page 154.  AVAILABLE INFORMATION 
We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports, available free of charge at our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with the SEC. Our website address is www.etrade.com.  The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information of the Public Reference
Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains the materials we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 
  7 


Table of Contents


ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS  The following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations should be carefully considered in addition to the other information set forth in this
report. Although the risks described below are those that management believes are the most significant, these are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not deem to
be material may also materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Risks Relating to the Nature and
Operation of Our Business  We have incurred significant losses in recent years and cannot assure that we will be profitable in the
future.  We incurred net losses of $28.5 million and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. These losses were due primarily to the credit losses in our loan portfolio and, in 2009, the loss on the Debt Exchange in which $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of interest-bearing debt was exchanged for an equal principal
amount of non-interest-bearing convertible debentures. Although we have taken a significant number of steps to reduce our credit exposure and reported net income of $156.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, we likely will continue to
suffer credit losses in 2012. In late 2007, we experienced a substantial diminution of customer assets and accounts as a result of customer concerns regarding our credit related exposures. While we were able to stabilize our retail franchise during
the ensuing period, it could take additional time to fully mitigate the credit issues in our loan portfolio, which could result in a return to a net loss position.  We will continue to experience losses in our mortgage loan portfolio.  At
December 31, 2011, the principal balance of our home equity loan portfolio was $5.3 billion and the allowance for loan losses for this portfolio was $463.3 million. At December 31, 2011, the principal balance of our one- to four-family
loan portfolio was $6.6 billion and the allowance for loan losses for this portfolio was $314.2 million. Although the provision for loan losses has improved in recent periods, performance is subject to variability in any given quarter and we cannot
state with certainty that the declining loan loss trend will continue. In particular, a significant portion of our mortgage loan portfolio is secured by properties worth less than the outstanding balance of loans secured by such properties. There
can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate if the residential real estate and credit markets deteriorate beyond our expectations. In addition, as the OCC conducts its first cycle of examinations since succeeding to the
OTS as our bank’s primary federal banking supervisor, its views of our loan-related programs and practices that were designed in accordance with guidance from the OTS may differ from the views previously taken by the OTS and may result in our
making changes to such programs and practices. We may be required under such circumstances to further increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have an adverse effect on our regulatory capital position and our results of operations in
future periods.  The carrying value of our home equity and one- to four-family loan portfolios was $4.9 billion and $6.3
billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011. Our home equity and one- to four-family loan portfolios are held on the consolidated balance sheet at carrying value because they are classified as held for investment, which indicates that we have
the intent and ability to hold them for the foreseeable future or until maturity. The fair value of our home equity and one- to four-family loan portfolios was estimated to be $4.3 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011,
in accordance with the fair value measurements accounting guidance, as disclosed in Note 4—Fair Value Disclosures of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on page 113. The fair value of our home equity and one- to four-family
loan portfolios was estimated using a modeling technique that discounted future cash flows based on estimated principal and interest payments over the life of the loans, including expected losses and prepayments. There was limited or no observable
market data for our home equity and one- to four-family loan portfolios. Given the limited market data, the fair value measurements cannot be determined with precision and the amount that would be realized in a forced liquidation,

  8 


Table of Contents

an actual sale or immediate settlement could be significantly lower than both the carrying value and the estimated fair value of the portfolio. In addition, changes in the underlying assumptions
used, including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, could significantly affect the results of current or future fair value estimates.  Certain characteristics of our mortgage loan portfolio indicate an increased risk of loss. For example, at December 31, 2011: 
 


 
•
 
 approximately 50% and 60% of the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios, respectively, had a current LTV/CLTV of greater than 100%;
  


 
•
 
 approximately 57% and 49% of the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios, respectively, were originated with low or no documentation;
  


 
•
 
 borrowers with current FICO scores less than 700 consisted of approximately 37% and 38% of the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios,
respectively; and   


 
•
 
 approximately 82% and 88% of the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios, respectively, were purchased from a third party.
 The foregoing factors are among the key items we track to predict and monitor credit risk in our mortgage
portfolio, together with loan type, housing prices, loan vintage and geographic location of the underlying property. We believe the relative importance of these factors varies, depending upon economic conditions. 
Home equity loans have certain characteristics that result in higher risk than first lien, amortizing one- to four-family loans. 
Approximately 85% of the home equity loan portfolio consists of second lien loans on residential real estate properties. The average
estimated current CLTV on our home equity loan portfolio was 112% as of December 31, 2011. We hold both the first and second lien positions in less than 1% of the home equity loan portfolio, exposing us to risk associated with the actions and
inactions of the first lien lender. We do not directly service any of our loans and as a result, we rely on third party vendors and servicers to provide information on our loan portfolio. We monitor our borrowers by refreshing FICO scores and CLTV
information on a quarterly basis. We do not receive complete data on the first lien positions of second lien home equity loans. In addition, we rely on third party servicers to provide payment information on home equity loans, including which
borrowers are paying only the minimum amount due. We have incomplete information regarding the number of borrowers paying only the minimum amounts, which impacts our ability to accurately report on whether borrowers are repaying any principal during
the draw period across the aggregate portfolio.  Home equity lines of credit convert to amortizing loans at the end of the
draw period, which ranges from 60 months to 120 months. At December 31, 2011, the vast majority of the home equity line of credit portfolio had not converted from the interest-only draw period to an amortizing loan. In addition, approximately
79% of the home equity line of credit portfolio will not begin amortizing until after 2014. As a result, we do not yet have sufficient data relating to loan default and delinquency of amortizing home equity lines of credit to determine if the
performance is different than the trends observed for home equity lines of credit in an interest-only draw period.  We could experience
significant losses on other securities held on the balance sheet.  At December 31, 2011, we held $422.6 million in
amortized cost of non-agency collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMO”) on our consolidated balance sheet. We incurred net impairment charges of $14.9 million during 2011, which was a result of the deterioration in the expected credit
performance of the underlying loans in the securities. If the credit quality of these securities further deteriorates, we may incur additional impairment charges which would have an adverse effect on our regulatory capital position and our results
of operations in future periods. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Loss of customers and assets could destabilize the Company or result in lower revenues in future periods.
 During November 2007, well-publicized concerns about E*TRADE Bank’s holdings of asset-backed securities led to
widespread concerns about our continued viability. From the beginning of this crisis through December 31, 2007, when the situation stabilized, customers withdrew approximately $5.6 billion of net cash and approximately $12.2 billion of net
assets from our bank and brokerage businesses. Many of the accounts that were closed belonged to sophisticated and active customers with large cash and securities balances. While we were able to stabilize our retail franchise, concerns about our
viability may recur, which could lead to destabilization and asset and customer attrition. If such destabilization should occur, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully rebuild our franchise by reclaiming customers and growing
assets. If we are unable to sustain or, if necessary, rebuild our franchise, in future periods our revenues will be lower and our losses will be greater than we have experienced.  We have a large amount of debt.  We have issued a substantial amount of
high-yield debt, with restrictive financial and other covenants and our expected annual interest cash outlay is approximately $165 million. Our ratio of debt (our corporate debt) to equity (expressed as a percentage) was 30% at December 31,
2011. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including: 1) a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds
available for other purposes; 2) our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate needs is significantly limited; and 3) our substantial leverage may place us at a competitive
disadvantage, hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in general economic conditions or our business. In addition, a significant reduction in revenues could
have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt obligations.  In June 2011, we granted a security interest to
the holders of the 2017 Notes and the 2019 Notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indentures. Under the applicable indentures, the security interest is limited to $300 million of property and assets owned by certain unregulated subsidiaries.
The security interest granted was secured by collateral significantly less in value than $300 million. Also in June 2011, certain of our subsidiaries issued guarantees on each outstanding series of senior notes and 2019 Notes. E*TRADE Bank and
E*TRADE Securities LLC, among others, did not issue such guarantees.  We conduct all of our operations through subsidiaries and have no
revenue sources other than dividends from our subsidiaries, which are subject to advance regulatory approval in the case of our most significant subsidiaries.  We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments on our obligations, including our debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions limit our
ability to transfer funds to or from our subsidiaries. In addition, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to us, or that prohibit such transfers altogether
in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations, including our debt obligations. The majority of our capital is invested in our banking subsidiary
E*TRADE Bank, which may not pay dividends to us without approval from the OCC and the Federal Reserve. Our primary brokerage subsidiaries, E*TRADE Securities LLC and E*TRADE Clearing LLC, are both subsidiaries of E*TRADE Bank; therefore, the OCC,
together with the Federal Reserve, controls our ability to receive dividend payments from our brokerage business as well. Furthermore, even if we receive the approval of the OCC and the Federal Reserve to receive dividend payments from our brokerage
business, in the event of our bankruptcy or liquidation or E*TRADE Bank’s receivership, we would not be entitled to receive any cash or other property or assets from our subsidiaries (including E*TRADE Bank, E*TRADE Clearing LLC and E*TRADE
Securities LLC) until those subsidiaries pay in full their respective creditors, including customers of those subsidiaries and, as applicable, the FDIC and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. 
  10 


Table of Contents
From late 2009 through mid-2011, we requested and received the approval of the OTS, our then
primary bank regulator to permit E*TRADE Bank to pay quarterly dividends to the Company. The dividends approved by the OTS had been equal to the profits from the previous quarter of E*TRADE Securities LLC. We believe our former regulator, the OTS,
viewed these dividend requests as distinct from a more comprehensive request to release a portion of E*TRADE Bank’s excess capital. During the third quarter of 2011, we transitioned regulators from the OTS to the OCC and the Federal Reserve. We
believe our new regulators would subject all dividend requests to an equal level of scrutiny; therefore rather than request a dividend from E*TRADE Bank in an amount equal to the profits of E*TRADE Securities LLC in the prior quarter, we believe the
best path for our shareholders is to work on a comprehensive dividend plan that efficiently distributes capital among our regulated entities and parent company. We are in dialogue with our regulators regarding our ability to implement a
comprehensive dividend plan and we expect to complete that dialogue by the end of 2012. Following the completion of that dialogue, we expect to have a better understanding of the timing of any future dividends; however, we cannot predict the
likelihood or the timing of regulatory approval for any such dividends.  We are subject to investigations and lawsuits as a result of our
losses from mortgage loans and asset-backed securities.  In 2007, we recognized an increased provision expense totaling
$640 million and asset losses and impairments of $2.45 billion, including the sale of our asset-backed securities portfolio to Citadel. As a result, various plaintiffs filed class actions and derivative lawsuits, which were subsequently consolidated
into one class action and one derivative lawsuit, alleging disclosure violations regarding our home equity, mortgage and securities portfolios during 2007. In addition, the SEC initiated an informal inquiry into matters related to our loan and
securities portfolios. While we have entered into a memorandum of understanding to settle the consolidated class action lawsuit, the settlement is subject to Court approval and has not yet been finalized. The continued defense of these matters and
the finalization of the terms of the settlement with the plaintiffs in the consolidated class action have entailed and will continue to entail considerable cost and may be time consuming for our management. Unfavorable outcomes in any of these
matters, including the consolidated class action if the settlement is not finalized on the terms anticipated or does not obtain the requisite approval of the Court, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows.  Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. 
The financial services industry is highly competitive, with multiple industry participants competing for the same customers. Many of our
competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than we have and offer a wider range of financial products and services. Other of our competitors offer a more narrow range of financial products and services and have not been as
susceptible to the disruptions in the credit markets that have impacted our Company, and therefore have not suffered the losses we have. The impact of competitors with superior name recognition, greater market acceptance, larger customer bases or
stronger capital positions could adversely affect our revenue growth and customer retention. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and demands and withstand changing market conditions better than
we can. Competitors may conduct extensive promotional activities, offering better terms, lower prices and/or different products and services or combination of products and services that could attract current E*TRADE customers and potentially result
in price wars within the industry. Some of our competitors may also benefit from established relationships among themselves or with third parties enhancing their products and services.  Turmoil in the global financial markets could reduce trade volumes and margin borrowing and increase our dependence on our more active customers who receive lower pricing. 
Online investing services to the retail customer, including trading and margin lending, account for a significant portion of our revenues.
Turmoil in the global financial markets could lead to changes in volume and price levels of securities and futures transactions which may, in turn, result in lower trading volumes and margin lending. In particular, a decrease in trading activity
within our lower activity accounts could impact revenues and 
  11 


Table of Contents

increase dependence on more active trading customers who receive more favorable pricing based on their trade volume. A decrease in trading activity or securities prices would also typically be
expected to result in a decrease in margin borrowing, which would reduce the revenue that we generate from interest charged on margin borrowing.  We rely heavily on technology, and technology can be subject to interruption and instability.  We rely on technology, particularly the Internet, to conduct much of our activity. Our technology operations are vulnerable to disruptions from human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer
viruses, spam attacks, unauthorized access and other similar events. Disruptions to or instability of our technology or external technology that allows our customers to use our products and services could harm our business and our reputation. In
addition, technology systems, whether they be our own proprietary systems or the systems of third parties on whom we rely to conduct portions of our operations, are potentially vulnerable to security breaches and unauthorized usage. An actual or
perceived breach of the security of our technology could harm our business and our reputation.  Vulnerability of our customers’
computers and mobile devices could lead to significant losses related to identity theft or other fraud and harm our reputation and financial performance.  Because our business model relies heavily on our customers’ use of their own personal computers, mobile devices and the Internet, our business and reputation could be harmed by security breaches of
our customers and third parties. Computer viruses and other attacks on our customers’ personal computer systems and mobile devices could create losses for our customers even without any breach in the security of our systems, and could thereby
harm our business and our reputation. As part of our E*TRADE Complete Protection Guarantee, we reimburse our customers for losses caused by a breach of security of the customers’ own personal systems. Such reimbursements could have a material
impact on our financial performance.  We rely on third party service providers to perform certain functions. 
We rely on third party service providers for certain technology, processing, servicing and support functions. These third party service
providers are also subject to operational and technology vulnerabilities, which may impact our business. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any third party service provider and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a
timely manner could have a material impact on our business and financial performance.  Downturns in the securities markets increase the
credit risk associated with margin lending or securities loaned transactions.  We permit certain customers to purchase
securities on margin. A downturn in securities markets may impact the value of collateral held in connection with margin receivables and may reduce its value below the amount borrowed, potentially creating collections issues with our margin
receivables. In addition, we frequently borrow securities from and lend securities to other broker-dealers. Under regulatory guidelines, when we borrow or lend securities, we must simultaneously disburse or receive cash deposits. A sharp change in
security market values may result in losses if counterparties to the borrowing and lending transactions fail to honor their commitments. 
We may be unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates and the enterprise interest-earning assets in our portfolio.
 Net operating interest income is an important source of our revenue. Our results of operations depend, in part, on our
level of net operating interest income and our effective management of the impact of changing interest rates and varying asset and liability maturities. Our ability to manage interest rate risk could impact our financial condition. We use
derivatives to help manage interest rate risk. However, the derivatives we utilize may not be completely effective at managing this risk and changes in market interest rates and the yield curve could

  12 


Table of Contents

reduce the value of our financial assets and reduce net operating interest income. The lower interest rate environment in recent years has compressed our net interest spread, and given the
continued challenges of the current interest rate environment, our net interest spread could average less than 2.50% for the year ending December 31, 2012. Among other items, we periodically enter into repurchase agreements to support the
funding and liquidity requirements of E*TRADE Bank. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationships with counterparties, we could recognize substantial losses on the derivatives we utilized to hedge repurchase agreements. 
If we do not successfully manage consolidation opportunities, we could be at a competitive disadvantage. 
There has recently been significant consolidation in the financial services industry and this consolidation is likely to continue in the
future. Should we be excluded from or fail to take advantage of viable consolidation opportunities, our competitors may be able to capitalize on those opportunities and create greater scale and cost efficiencies to our detriment. 
Although we are currently constrained by the terms of our corporate debt and the memoranda of understanding we and E*TRADE Bank entered
into with our primary banking regulators, we may seek to acquire businesses in the future. The assets of these businesses are primarily customer accounts. Our retention of customers’ assets may be impacted by our ability to successfully
continue to integrate the acquired operations, products (including pricing) and personnel. Diversion of management attention from other business concerns could have a negative impact. If we are not successful in our integration efforts, we may
experience significant attrition in the acquired accounts or experience other issues that would prevent us from achieving the level of revenue enhancements and cost savings that we expect with respect to an acquisition. 
Risks associated with principal trading transactions could result in trading losses. 
A majority of our market making revenues are derived from trading as a principal. We may incur trading losses relating to the purchase,
sale or short sale of securities. We carry equity security positions on a daily basis and from time to time, we may carry large positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. Sudden changes in the value of
these positions could impact our financial results.  Reduced spreads in securities pricing, levels of trading activity and trading through
market makers could harm our market maker business.  Technological advances, competition and regulatory changes in the
marketplace may continue to tighten securities spreads. Tighter spreads could reduce revenue capture per share by our market maker, thus reducing revenues for this line of business.  Advisory services subject us to additional risks.  We provide advisory
services to investors to aid them in their decision making. Investment decisions and suggestions are based on publicly available documents and communications with investors regarding investment preferences and risk tolerances. Publicly available
documents may be inaccurate and misleading, resulting in recommendations or transactions that are inconsistent with the investors’ intended results. In addition, advisors may not understand investor needs or risk tolerances, failures that may
result in the recommendation or purchase of a portfolio of assets that may not be suitable for the investor. To the extent that we fail to know our customers or improperly advise them, we could be found liable for losses suffered by such customers,
which could harm our reputation and business.  We have a significant deferred tax asset and cannot assure it will be fully realized.
 We had net deferred tax assets of $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2011. We did not establish a valuation allowance
against our federal net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011 as we believe that it is more likely 
  13 


Table of Contents

than not that all of these assets will be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimated future taxable income based on management approved forecasts. This process
required significant judgment by management about matters that are by nature uncertain. If future events differ significantly from our current forecasts, a valuation allowance may need to be established, which could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations and our financial condition.  As a result of the Public Equity Offering, the Debt Exchange and related
transactions in 2009, we believe that we experienced an “ownership change” for tax purposes that could cause us to permanently lose a significant portion of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. 
As a result of the Public Equity Offering, the Debt Exchange and related transactions in 2009, we believe that we experienced an
“ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Section 382”)(which is generally a greater than 50 percentage point increase by certain “5% shareholders” over a
rolling three year period). Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the utilization of deferred tax assets, such as net operating loss carry forwards and other tax attributes, once an ownership change has occurred. Depending on
the size of the annual limitation (which is in part a function of our market capitalization at the time of the ownership change) and the remaining carry forward period of the tax assets (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried
forward for a period of 20 years), we could realize a permanent loss of a portion of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes. We believe the tax ownership change
will extend the period of time it will take to fully utilize our pre-ownership change net operating losses (“NOLs”), but will not limit the total amount of pre-ownership change NOLs we can utilize. This is a complex analysis and
requires the Company to make certain judgments in determining the annual limitation. As a result, it is possible that we could ultimately lose a significant portion of our deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Business 
We are subject to extensive government regulation, including banking and securities rules and regulations, which could restrict our business practices.
 The securities and banking industries are subject to extensive regulation. All of our broker-dealer subsidiaries have to
comply with many laws and rules, including rules relating to sales practices and the suitability of recommendations to customers, possession and control of customer funds and securities, margin lending, execution and settlement of transactions and
anti-money laundering. We are also subject to additional laws and rules as a result of our market maker operations. 
Similarly, E*TRADE Financial Corporation and ETB Holdings, Inc., as savings and loan holding companies, and E*TRADE Bank, E*TRADE Savings
Bank and E*TRADE United Bank, as federally chartered savings banks, are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the Federal Reserve (including pursuant to the terms of the memoranda of understanding that E*TRADE
Financial Corporation, E*TRADE Bank, E*TRADE Savings Bank and E*TRADE United Bank entered into with our former primary banking regulator) and, in the case of the savings banks, also the FDIC. Such regulation covers all banking business, including
lending practices, safeguarding deposits, capital structure, recordkeeping, transactions with affiliates and conduct and qualifications of personnel.  Recently enacted regulatory reform legislation may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, if we are unable to meet these new requirements, we could face negative regulatory
consequences, which would have a material negative effect on our business.  On July 21, 2010, the President signed
into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This law contains various provisions designed to enhance financial stability and to reduce the likelihood of another financial crisis and significantly 
  14 


Table of Contents

changed the bank regulatory structure for our Company and its thrift subsidiaries. Portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, but many provisions will only be effective after
the adoption of implementing regulations, which have been delayed in numerous cases. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, when fully implemented, on our business are:   


 
•
 
 changes to the thrift supervisory structure;  


 
•
 
 changes to regulatory capital requirements;   


 
•
 
 changes to the assessment base used by depository institutions to calculate their FDIC insurance premiums, increases in the minimum reserve ratio for
the FDIC’s deposit insurance fund to 1.35%, and imposition of the additional costs of this increase on depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more; and 
 


 
•
 
 establishment of the CFPB with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and, for banks and thrifts with $10 billion or more in
assets, to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws.  Under the legislation, the OTS was
abolished in July 2011 and its functions and personnel were distributed among the OCC, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve. Primary jurisdiction for the supervision and regulation of savings and loan holding companies, including the Company, was
transferred to the Federal Reserve; supervision and regulation of federal savings associations, such as the Company’s three thrift subsidiaries, was transferred to the OCC. Although the Dodd-Frank Act maintains the federal thrift charter, it
eliminates certain preemption, branching and other benefits of the charter and imposes new penalties for failure to comply with the qualified thrift lender test. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires all companies, including savings and loan holding
companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution, to serve as a source of strength for the institution, including committing necessary capital and liquidity support. 
We are required to file periodic reports with the Federal Reserve and are subject to examination and supervision by them. The Federal
Reserve also has certain types of enforcement powers over us, ETB Holdings, Inc., and our non-depository institution subsidiaries, including the ability to issue cease-and-desist orders, force divestiture of our thrift subsidiaries and impose civil
and monetary penalties for violations of federal banking laws and regulations or for unsafe or unsound banking practices. Our thrift subsidiaries are subject to similar reporting, examination, supervision and enforcement oversight by the OCC. In
concurrence with the transfer of parent company supervisory authority from the OTS to the Federal Reserve, the Federal Reserve has issued guidance aligning the supervisory and regulatory standards of savings and loan holding companies more closely
with the standards applicable to bank holding companies. The Federal Reserve had also indicated that its supervision of savings and loan holding companies may entail a more rigorous level of review than previously applied by the OTS. 
The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new independent regulatory body, the CFPB, which has been given broad rulemaking authority to implement
the consumer protection laws that apply to banks and thrifts and to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. For all banks and thrifts with total consolidated assets over $10 billion, including
E*TRADE Bank, the CFPB has exclusive rulemaking and examination, and primary enforcement authority, under federal consumer financial laws and regulations. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and
regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB.  For us, one of the most significant changes
under the new law is that savings and loan holding companies such as our Company for the first time will become subject to the same capital and activity requirements as those applicable to bank holding companies. In addition, we will be subject to
the same capital requirements as those applied to banks, which requirements exclude, on a phase-out basis, all trust preferred securities from Tier I capital. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a five year phase-in period for these new capital
requirements. We fully expect to meet the capital requirements applicable to thrift holding companies as they are phased in. 
  15 


Table of Contents

However, it is possible that our regulators may impose more stringent capital and other prudential standards on us prior to the end of the five year phase-in period. For example, both the Federal
Reserve and the OCC have proposed rules that would ultimately require the parent company and E*TRADE Bank, respectively, to conduct capital adequacy stress tests on their operations. 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, the details, substance, and
impact of which may not be known for months or years. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impacts the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet-to-be-written rules and regulations may have on us. However, given that the legislation is likely to
materially change the regulatory environment for the financial services industry in which we operate, we expect at a minimum that our compliance costs will increase.  If we fail to comply with applicable securities and banking laws, rules and regulations, either domestically or internationally, we could be subject to disciplinary actions, damages, penalties or
restrictions that could significantly harm our business.  The SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations and state
securities commissions, among other things, can censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or suspend or expel a broker-dealer or any of its officers or employees. The OCC and Federal Reserve may take similar action with respect to our banking and
other financial activities, respectively. Similarly, the attorneys general of each state could bring legal action on behalf of the citizens of the various states to ensure compliance with local laws. Regulatory agencies in countries outside of the
U.S. have similar authority. The ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is dependent in part on the establishment and maintenance of a reasonable compliance system. The failure to establish and enforce reasonable compliance procedures,
even if unintentional, could subject us to significant losses or disciplinary or other actions.  If we do not maintain the capital levels
required by regulators, we may be fined or even forced out of business.  The SEC, FINRA, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and
various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of regulatory capital by banks and net capital by securities broker-dealers. E*TRADE Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements
administered by the OCC, and E*TRADE Financial Corporation will, for the first time, become subject to specific capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory, and
possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm E*TRADE Bank’s and E*TRADE Financial Corporation’s operations and financial statements. 
E*TRADE Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of E*TRADE Bank’s assets, liabilities and
certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require E*TRADE Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and Tier I capital
to risk-weighted assets and of Tier I capital to adjusted total assets. To satisfy the capital requirements for a “well capitalized” financial institution, E*TRADE Bank must maintain higher total and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets
and Tier I capital to adjusted total assets ratios. E*TRADE Bank’s capital amounts and classification are subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about the strength of components of its capital, risk weightings of assets, off-balance
sheet transactions and other factors. Any significant reduction in E*TRADE Bank’s regulatory capital could result in E*TRADE Bank being less than “well capitalized” or “adequately capitalized” under applicable capital rules.
A failure of E*TRADE Bank to be “adequately capitalized” which is not cured within time periods specified in the indentures governing our debt securities would constitute a default under our debt securities and likely result in the debt
securities becoming immediately due and payable at their full face value.  The regulators may request we raise equity to
increase the regulatory capital of E*TRADE Bank or to further reduce debt. If we were unable to raise equity, we could face negative regulatory consequences, such as restrictions on our activities, requirements that we divest ourselves of certain
businesses and requirements that we dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period. Any such actions could have a material negative effect on our business. 
  16 


Table of Contents
Similarly, failure to maintain the required net capital by our securities broker-dealers
could result in suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA, and could ultimately lead to the firm’s liquidation. If such net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large
charge against net capital, operations that require an intensive use of capital could be limited. Such operations may include investing activities, marketing and the financing of customer account balances. Also, our ability to withdraw capital from
brokerage subsidiaries could be restricted.  As a non-grandfathered savings and loan holding company, we are subject to activity
limitations and requirements that could restrict our ability to engage in certain activities and take advantage of business opportunities.  Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, our activities are restricted to those that are financial in nature and certain real estate-related activities. We believe all of our existing activities and
investments are permissible under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. At the same time, we are unable to pursue future activities that are not financial in nature or otherwise real-estate related. We are also limited in our ability to invest in
other savings and loan holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires savings and loan holding companies like ours, as well as all of our thrift subsidiaries, to be both “well capitalized” and “well managed” in order for us
to conduct certain financial activities, such as market making and securities underwriting. We believe that we will be able to continue to engage in all of our current financial activities. However, if we and our thrift subsidiaries are unable to
satisfy the above “well capitalized” and “well managed” requirements, we could be subject to activity restrictions that could prevent us from engaging in market making and securities underwriting, as well as other negative
regulatory actions.  In addition, E*TRADE Bank is subject to extensive regulation of its activities and investments,
capitalization, community reinvestment, risk management policies and procedures and relationships with affiliated companies. Acquisitions of and mergers with other financial institutions, purchases of deposits and loan portfolios, the establishment
of new depository institution subsidiaries and the commencement of new activities by bank subsidiaries require the prior approval of the OCC and the Federal Reserve, and in some cases the FDIC, which may deny approval or limit the scope of our
planned activity. Our compliance with these regulations and conditions could place us at a competitive disadvantage in an environment in which consolidation within the financial services industry is prevalent. Also, these regulations and conditions
could affect our ability to realize synergies from future acquisitions, could negatively affect us following an acquisition and could also delay or prevent the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services. In addition,
E*TRADE Clearing LLC and E*TRADE Securities LLC, as operating subsidiaries of E*TRADE Bank, are subject to increased regulatory oversight and the same activity restrictions that are applicable to E*TRADE Bank. 
Risks Relating to Owning Our Stock 
We are substantially restricted by the terms of our corporate debt.  The indentures governing our corporate debt contain various covenants and restrictions that limit our ability and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: 
 


 
•
 
 incur additional indebtedness;   


 
•
 
 create liens;   


 
•
 
 pay dividends or make other distributions;   


 
•
 
 repurchase or redeem capital stock;   


 
•
 
 make investments or other restricted payments;   


 
•
 
 enter into transactions with our shareholders or affiliates; 
  17 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 sell assets or shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries; 
 


 
•
 
 receive dividend or other payments from our subsidiaries; and 
 


 
•
 
 merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets. 
As a result of the covenants and restrictions contained in the indentures, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be
unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. Each of these series of our corporate debt contains a limitation, subject to important exceptions, on our ability to incur
additional debt if our Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as defined in the relevant indentures) is less than or equal to 2.5 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2011, our Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio was 1.6 to 1.0. The terms of any
future indebtedness could include more restrictive covenants.  Although these covenants provide substantial flexibility, for
example the ability to incur “refinancing indebtedness” and to incur up to $300 million of secured debt under a credit facility, the covenants, among other things, generally limit our ability to incur additional debt even if we were to
substantially reduce our existing debt through debt exchange transactions. We could be forced to repay immediately all our outstanding debt securities at their full principal amount if we were to breach these covenants and did not cure the breach
within the cure periods (if any) specified in the respective indentures. Further, if we experience a change of control, as defined in the indentures, we could be required to offer to purchase our debt securities at 101% of their principal amount.
Under our debt securities a “change of control” would occur if, among other things, a person became the beneficial owner of more than 50% of the total voting power of our voting stock which, with respect to the 2015 Notes and 2016 Notes,
would need to be coupled with a ratings downgrade before we would be required to offer to purchase those securities.  We
cannot assure that we will be able to remain in compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the appropriate parties and/or amend the covenants. 
The value of our common stock may be diluted if we need additional funds in the future or engage in debt-for-equity exchanges in the future.
 In the future, we may need to raise additional funds via debt and/or equity instruments, which may not be available on
favorable terms, if available at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital needs and our plans for the growth of our business. In addition, if funds are available, the issuance of equity
securities could significantly dilute the value of our shares of our common stock and cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We have the ability to issue a significant number of shares of stock in future transactions, which would
substantially dilute existing shareholders, without seeking further shareholder approval.  In recent periods, the global
financial markets were in turmoil and the equity and credit markets experienced extreme volatility, which caused already weak economic conditions to worsen. Continued turmoil in the global financial markets could further restrict our access to the
equity and debt markets.  The market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. 
From January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011, the price per share of our common stock ranged from a low of $5.90 to a high of
$29.00. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In the past, volatility in the market price of a company’s securities has often led to securities class
action litigation. Such litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our attention and resources, which could harm our business. As discussed in Note 21—Commitments, Contingencies and Other Regulatory Matters of Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, we are currently a party to litigation related to the decline in the market price of our stock, and such 
  18 


Table of Contents

litigation could occur again in the future. Declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price to increase could also harm our ability to retain key employees, reduce
our access to capital, impact our ability to utilize deferred tax assets in the event of another ownership change and otherwise harm our business.  We have various mechanisms in place that may discourage takeover attempts. 
Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of
us in a merger, acquisition or similar transaction that a shareholder may consider favorable. Such provisions include:   


 
•
 
 authorization for the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; 
 


 
•
 
 the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors; 
 


 
•
 
 a super-majority voting requirement to effect business combinations and certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;
  


 
•
 
 limits on the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; 
 


 
•
 
 the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent; and 
 


 
•
 
 advance notice requirements for nominations to the Board or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings.
 In addition, certain provisions of our stock incentive plans, management retention and employment
agreements (including severance payments and stock option acceleration), certain provisions of Delaware law and the requirements under our debt securities to offer to purchase such securities at 101% of their principal amount may also discourage,
delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us.  We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our
indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.  Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition, operating performance, and our ability to receive dividend payments from our subsidiaries
which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us
to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness.  If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our
debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and
may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. 
Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such
time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and
principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If our cash flows and available cash are insufficient to meet
our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or
to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.   


ITEM
1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None. 
  19 


Table of Contents


ITEM
2.    PROPERTIES  A summary of our significant locations at December 31, 2011 is shown in the following table. All facilities are leased, except for 165,000 square feet of our office in Alpharetta, Georgia. Square
footage amounts are net of space that has been sublet or part of a facility restructuring.   








 Location
  
Approximate Square Footage
 

 Alpharetta, Georgia
  
 
260,000
 

 Arlington, Virginia
  
 
119,000
 

 Jersey City, New Jersey
  
 
107,000
 

 Menlo Park, California
  
 
91,000
 

 Sandy, Utah
  
 
66,000
 

 New York, New York
  
 
39,000
 

 Chicago, Illinois
  
 
25,000
 
 All of our facilities are used by either our trading and investing or balance sheet management segments,
in addition to the corporate/other category. All other leased facilities with space of less than 25,000 square feet are not listed by location. In addition to the significant facilities above, we also lease all 28 E*TRADE branches, ranging in space
from approximately 2,500 to 7,000 square feet. We believe our facilities space is adequate to meet our needs in 2012.   


ITEM 3.    LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS  On
October 27, 2000, Ajaxo, Inc. (“Ajaxo”) filed a complaint in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Santa Clara. Ajaxo sought damages and certain non-monetary relief for the Company’s alleged breach of a
non-disclosure agreement with Ajaxo pertaining to certain wireless technology that Ajaxo offered the Company as well as damages and other relief against the Company for their alleged misappropriation of Ajaxo’s trade secrets. Following a jury
trial, a judgment was entered in 2003 in favor of Ajaxo against the Company for $1.3 million for breach of the Ajaxo non-disclosure agreement. Although the jury found in favor of Ajaxo on its claim against the Company for misappropriation of trade
secrets, the trial court subsequently denied Ajaxo’s requests for additional damages and relief. On December 21, 2005, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the above-described award against the Company for breach of the nondisclosure
agreement but remanded the case to the trial court for the limited purpose of determining what, if any, additional damages Ajaxo may be entitled to as a result of the jury’s previous finding in favor of Ajaxo on its claim against the Company
for misappropriation of trade secrets. Although the Company paid Ajaxo the full amount due on the above-described judgment, the case was remanded back to the trial court, and on May 30, 2008, a jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company
denying all claims raised and demands for damages against the Company. Following the trial court’s filing of entry of judgment in favor of the Company on September 5, 2008, Ajaxo filed post-trial motions for vacating this entry of judgment
and requesting a new trial. By order dated November 4, 2008, the trial court denied these motions. On December 2, 2008, Ajaxo filed a notice of appeal with the Court of Appeal of the State of California for the Sixth District. Oral
argument on the appeal was heard on July 15, 2010. On August 30, 2010, the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s verdict in part and reversed the verdict in part, remanding the case. E*TRADE petitioned the Supreme Court of
California for review of the Court of Appeal decision. On December 16, 2010, the California Supreme Court denied the Company’s petition for review and remanded for further proceedings to the trial court. On September 20, 2011, the
trial court granted limited discovery at a conference on November 4, 2011, and set a motion schedule and trial date. The trial will continue on May 14, 2012. The Company will continue to defend itself vigorously. 
On October 2, 2007, a class action complaint alleging violations of the federal securities laws was filed in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company and its then 
  20 


Table of Contents

Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Mitchell H. Caplan and Robert J. Simmons, respectively, by Larry Freudenberg on his own behalf and on behalf of others similarly situated (the
“Freudenberg Action”). On July 17, 2008, the trial court consolidated this action with four other purported class actions, all of which were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and which
were based on the same facts and circumstances. On January 16, 2009, plaintiffs served their consolidated amended class action complaint in which they also named Dennis Webb, the Company’s former Capital Markets Division President, as a
defendant. Plaintiffs contend, among other things, that the value of the Company’s stock between April 19, 2006 and November 9, 2007 was artificially inflated because the defendants issued materially false and misleading statements
and failed to disclose that the Company was experiencing a rise in delinquency rates in its mortgage and home equity portfolios; failed to timely record an impairment on its mortgage and home equity portfolios; materially overvalued its securities
portfolio, which included assets backed by mortgages; and based on the foregoing, lacked a reasonable basis for the positive statements made about the Company’s earnings and prospects. Plaintiffs seek to recover damages in an amount to be
proven at trial, including interest and attorneys’ fees and costs. The parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) on December 17, 2011 to settle these consolidated actions. Under the terms of the MOU, the Company
and its insurance carriers will pay $79 million in return for full releases. Approximately $10.8 million of the total settlement figure will be paid by the Company, and was recorded in the other operating expense line item of the consolidated
statement of income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2011. This settlement is subject to Court approval and it has not yet been finalized. The defendants continue to deny that they committed any violations of law or breached any fiduciary
duty to shareholders.  On October 17, 2007, the SEC initiated an informal inquiry into matters related to the
Company’s mortgage loan and mortgage-related securities investment portfolios. The Company is cooperating fully with the SEC in this matter.  On August 15, 2008, Ronald M. Tate as trustee of the Ronald M. Tate Trust Dtd 4/13/88, and George Avakian filed an action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
against the Company, Mitchell H. Caplan and Robert J. Simmons based on the same facts and circumstances, and containing the same claims, as the Freudenberg consolidated actions discussed above. By agreement of the parties and approval of the court,
the Tate action was consolidated with the Freudenberg consolidated actions for the purpose of pre-trial discovery. Plaintiffs seek to recover damages in an amount to be proven at trial, including interest, attorneys’ and expert fees and costs.
The plaintiffs in this action will be part of the anticipated settlement class for the consolidated actions described above. 
Based upon the same facts and circumstances alleged in the Freudenberg consolidated actions discussed above, a verified shareholder
derivative complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on October 4, 2007 by Catherine Rubery, against the Company and its then Chief Executive Officer, President/Chief Operating Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and individual members of its board of directors. The Rubery complaint was consolidated with another shareholder derivative complaint brought by shareholder Marilyn Clark in the same court and against the same named defendants. On
July 26, 2010, Plaintiffs served their consolidated amended complaint, in which they also named Dennis Webb, the Company’s former Capital Markets Division President, as a defendant. Plaintiffs allege, among other things, causes of action
for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. The complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified monetary damages in favor of
the Company, changes to corporate governance procedures and various forms of injunctive relief.  On April 2, 2008, a
class action complaint alleging violations of the federal securities laws was filed by John W. Oughtred on his own behalf and on behalf of all others similarly situated in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
against the Company. Plaintiff contends, among other things, that the Company committed various sales practice violations in the sale of certain auction rate securities to investors between April 2, 2003, and February 13, 2008 by allegedly
misrepresenting that these securities were highly 
  21 


Table of Contents

liquid and safe investments for short term investing. On December 18, 2008, plaintiffs filed their first amended class action complaint. Defendants filed their pending motion to dismiss
plaintiffs’ amended complaint on February 5, 2009, and briefing on defendants’ motion to dismiss was completed on April 15, 2009. Plaintiffs seek to recover damages in an amount to be proven at trial, or, in the alternative,
rescission of auction rate securities purchases, plus interest and attorney’s fees and costs. On March 18, 2010, the District Court dismissed the complaint without prejudice. On April 22, 2010, Plaintiffs amended their complaint. The
Company has moved to dismiss the amended complaint. By an Order dated March 31, 2011, the Court granted E*TRADE’s motion and dismissed the action with prejudice. On May 2, 2011, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit. Plaintiffs filed their brief on August 12, 2011. The Company’s response brief was filed October 26, 2011. Plaintiffs’ reply brief was filed on November 21, 2011. Oral argument has not yet been
scheduled.  Beginning in approximately August 2008, representatives of various states attorneys general and FINRA initiated
inquiries regarding the purchase of auction rate securities by E*TRADE Securities LLC’s customers. On February 9, 2011, E*TRADE Securities LLC received a “Wells Notice” from FINRA Staff stating that they have made a preliminary
determination to recommend that disciplinary action be brought against E*TRADE Securities LLC for alleged violations of certain FINRA rules in connection with the purchases of auction rate securities by customers of E*TRADE Securities LLC. E*TRADE
Securities LLC is cooperating with these inquiries and has submitted a Wells response to FINRA setting forth the bases for E*TRADE Securities’ belief that disciplinary action is not warranted. 
On January 19, 2010, the North Carolina Securities Division filed an administrative petition before the North Carolina Secretary of
State against E*TRADE Securities LLC seeking to revoke the North Carolina securities dealer registration of E*TRADE Securities LLC or, alternatively, to suspend that registration until all North Carolina residents are made whole for their
investments in auction rate securities purchased through E*TRADE Securities LLC. On March 8, 2011, E*TRADE Securities LLC, without admitting or denying the underlying allegations, findings or conclusions, resolved the North Carolina
administrative action by entering into a consent order (“North Carolina Order”) pursuant to which E*TRADE Securities LLC agreed to pay a $25,000 civil penalty and to reimburse the North Carolina Securities Division’s investigative
costs of $400,000. E*TRADE Securities LLC also agreed to various undertakings set forth in the North Carolina Order, including additional internal training on fixed income products and the retention of an independent consultant to review E*TRADE
Securities LLC’s policies and procedures related to the approval and sale of fixed income products. As of December 31, 2011, no existing North Carolina customers held any auction rate securities. 
On February 3, 2010, a class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California
against E*TRADE Securities LLC by Joseph Roling on his own behalf and on behalf of all others similarly situated. The lead plaintiff alleges that E*TRADE Securities LLC unlawfully charged and collected certain account activity fees from its
customers. Claimant, on behalf of himself and the putative class, asserts breach of contract, unjust enrichment and violation of California Civil Code Section 1671 and seeks equitable and injunctive relief for alleged illegal, unfair and
fraudulent practices under California’s Unfair Competition Law, California Business and Professional Code Section 17200 et seq. The plaintiff seeks, among other things, certification of the class action on behalf of alleged similarly
situated plaintiffs, unspecified damages and restitution of amounts allegedly wrongfully collected by E*TRADE Securities LLC, attorneys’ fees and expenses and injunctive relief. The Company moved to transfer venue on the case to the Southern
District of New York; that motion was denied. The Court granted E*TRADE’s motion to dismiss in part and denied the motion to dismiss in part. The Court bifurcated discovery to permit initial discovery on individual claims and class
certification. Following preliminary discovery, Plaintiffs moved to amend their verified complaint for a second time, to assert new allegations and to add a new plaintiff. The Company filed its opposition to this motion on December 27, 2011.
The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against the claims raised in this action.  On July 21, 2010, the Colorado
Division of Securities filed an administrative complaint in the Colorado Office of Administrative Courts against E*TRADE Securities LLC based upon purchases of auction rate 
  22 


Table of Contents

securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC by Colorado residents. On October 19, 2011, E*TRADE Securities LLC and the Colorado Division of Securities reached an agreement in principle to
settle the Colorado proceeding whereby E*TRADE Securities LLC will offer to purchase auction rate securities held by Colorado customers who found themselves unable to sell their securities after those securities had been frozen in the
broader auction rate securities market. The agreement in principle also included an agreement with the North American Securities Administrators Association (“NASAA”) whereby E*TRADE Securities LLC will offer to purchase auction rate
securities purchased through E*TRADE Securities LLC on a nationwide basis and pay a $5 million penalty to be allocated among 48 states and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands but exclusive of North Carolina and South
Carolina with whom E*TRADE Securities previously had reached separate settlements. Under the agreement in principle each state will receive its allocated share of the $5 million penalty pursuant to administrative consent cease and desist orders to
be entered into by each state. A Consent Order memorializing the agreement in principle as it related to Colorado customers was entered by the Colorado Securities Commissioner on November 16, 2011, and amended on November 23, 2011, whereby
E*TRADE Securities LLC, without admitting or denying the underlying allegations, agreed to pay an administrative penalty to Colorado of $84,202, which amount constituted Colorado’s share of the total NASAA state settlement amount of $5 million,
and to reimburse the Colorado Division of Securities’ costs associated with the administrative action in the amount of $596,580. Under the terms of the Consent Order, E*TRADE Securities LLC will offer to purchase (or offer to arrange a third
party to purchase), at par plus accrued and unpaid dividends and interest, from eligible investors nationwide their auction rate securities purchased through E*TRADE Securities LLC, or through an entity acquired by the Company on or before
February 13, 2008, if such auction rate securities have failed at auction at least once since February 13, 2008 (“the Purchase Offer”). E*TRADE Securities LLC also agreed to identify eligible investors who purchased auction rate
securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC on or before February 13, 2008, and sold those securities below par between February 13, 2008, and November 16, 2011, and to reimburse those sellers the difference between par value and the
actual sales price plus reasonable interest. E*TRADE Securities LLC agreed to hold open the Purchase Offer until May 15, 2012, and to various other undertakings set forth in the Consent Order, including the establishment of a dedicated
toll-free telephone assistance line and website to provide information and to respond to questions regarding the Consent Order. As of December 31, 2011, the total amount of auction rate securities held by Colorado customers was approximately
$1.2 million and the total amount of auction rate securities held by E*TRADE Securities LLC customers nationwide (including Colorado customers) was $61.3 million. The Company recorded a reserve of $48 million in the other operating expense line item
of the consolidated statement of income (loss). The reserve represented the Company’s estimate of the current fair value relative to par value of auction rate securities held by E*TRADE Securities LLC customers, as well as former customers who
purchased auction rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC and are covered by the Consent Order. The agreement includes the resolution of all material individual auction rate securities arbitrations and litigations. The reserve also includes
penalties and other estimated settlement costs.  On August 24, 2010, the South Carolina Securities Division
filed an administrative complaint before the Securities Commissioner of South Carolina against E*TRADE Securities LLC based upon purchases of auction rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC by South Carolina residents. The
complaint sought to suspend the South Carolina broker-dealer license of E*TRADE Securities LLC until South Carolina customers who purchased auction rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC and who wished to liquidate those positions
were able to do so, and sought a fine not to exceed $10,000 for each potential violation of South Carolina statutes or rules. On March 25, 2011, E*TRADE Securities LLC, without admitting or denying the underlying allegations,
findings or conclusions, resolved the South Carolina administrative action by entering into a consent order, pursuant to which E*TRADE Securities LLC agreed to pay a $10,000 civil penalty and to reimburse the South Carolina Securities
Division’s investigative costs of $2,500. As of December 31, 2011, no existing South Carolina customers held any auction rate securities.  On May 16, 2011, Droplets Inc., the holder of two patents pertaining to user interface servers, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against E*TRADE
Financial Corporation, E*TRADE Securities LLC, E*TRADE Bank N.A. and multiple other unaffiliated financial services firms. 
  23 


Table of Contents

Plaintiff contends that the defendants engaged in patent infringement under federal law. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and an injunction against future infringements, plus royalties, costs,
interest and attorneys’ fees. On September 30, 2011, the Company and several co-defendants filed a motion to transfer the case to the Southern District of New York. Venue discovery occurred throughout December 2011. On January 1,
2012, a new judge was assigned to the case. The Company will defend itself vigorously in this matter.  Several cases have been
filed nationwide involving the April 2007 leveraged buyout (“LBO”) of the Tribune Company (“Tribune”) by Sam Zell, and the subsequent bankruptcy of Tribune. In William Niese et al. v. A.G. Edwards et al., in Superior Court of
Delaware, New Castle County, former Tribune employees and retirees claimed that Tribune was actually insolvent at the time of the LBO and that the LBO constituted a fraudulent transaction that depleted the plaintiffs’ retirement plans,
rendering them worthless. E*TRADE Clearing LLC, along with numerous other financial institutions, is a named defendant, but has not been served with process. One of the defendants removed the action to federal district court in Delaware on
July 1, 2011. In Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas et al. v. Adaly Opportunity Fund et al., filed in the Supreme Court of New York, New York County on June 3, 2011, the Trustees of certain notes issued by Tribune allege wrongdoing in
connection with the LBO. In particular the Trustees claim that the LBO constituted a constructive fraudulent transfer under various state laws. E*TRADE Capital Markets, LLC, along with numerous other financial institutions, is a named defendant. In
Deutsche Bank et al. v. Ohlson et al., filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, noteholders of Tribune asserted claims of constructive fraud. E*TRADE Capital Markets LLC is a named defendant. In EGI-TRB LLC et al. v.
ABN-AMRO et al, filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County Illinois, creditors of Tribune assert fraudulent conveyance claims against multiple shareholder defendants. E*TRADE Clearing LLC is a named defendant. There have been several motions filed by
various parties to transfer venue and to consolidate these actions. The Company’s time to answer or otherwise respond to the complaint has been stayed pending further orders of Court. The Company will defend itself vigorously in these matters.
 In addition to the matters described above, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the
normal course of business. In each pending matter, the Company contests liability or the amount of claimed damages. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial
or indeterminate damages, or where investigation or discovery have yet to be completed, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate a range of possible losses on its remaining outstanding legal proceedings; however, the Company believes any losses
would not be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company.  An unfavorable outcome in any matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, even if the ultimate
outcomes are resolved in the Company’s favor, the defense of such litigation could entail considerable cost or the diversion of the efforts of management, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business,
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  The Company maintains insurance coverage that management believes
is reasonable and prudent. The principal insurance coverage it maintains covers commercial general liability; property damage; hardware/software damage; cyber liability; directors and officers; employment practices liability; certain criminal acts
against the Company; and errors and omissions. The Company believes that such insurance coverage is adequate for the purpose of its business. The Company’s ability to maintain this level of insurance coverage in the future, however, is subject
to the availability of affordable insurance in the marketplace. 
  24 


Table of Contents
PART II   


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
Price Range of Common Stock  The following table shows the high and low sale prices of our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ for the periods indicated: 
 












 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 2011:
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
18.13
 
  
$
14.60
 

 Second Quarter
  
$
16.83
 
  
$
13.23
 

 Third Quarter
  
$
16.66
 
  
$
9.07
 

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
11.69
 
  
$
7.42
 

 2010:
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
18.50
 
  
$
14.10
 

 Second Quarter
  
$
19.90
 
  
$
11.73
 

 Third Quarter
  
$
15.60
 
  
$
11.15
 

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
16.24
 
  
$
13.73
 
 The closing sale price of our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ on February 17, 2012 was $9.35
per share. At that date, there were 1,648 holders of record of our common stock.  Dividends 
We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. The terms of our corporate debt currently prohibit the payment of
dividends and will continue to prohibit the payment of dividends for the foreseeable future. E*TRADE Bank may not pay dividends to the parent company without approval from its regulators. This dividend restriction includes E*TRADE Securities LLC and
E*TRADE Clearing LLC as they are subsidiaries of E*TRADE Bank.  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
Refer to Note 18—Employee Shared-Based Payments and Other Benefits of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for
equity compensation plan information. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Performance Graph  The following performance graph shows the cumulative total return to a holder of the Company’s common stock, assuming dividend reinvestment, compared with the cumulative total return, assuming
dividend reinvestment, of the S&P 500 and the S&P Super Cap Diversified Financials during the period from December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2011. 
  

  




























 
  
12/06
 
  
12/07
 
  
12/08
 
  
12/09
 
  
12/10
 
  
12/11
 

 E*TRADE Financial Corporation
  
 
100.00
 
  
 
15.83
 
  
 
5.13
 
  
 
7.85
 
  
 
7.14
 
  
 
3.55
 

 S&P 500
  
 
100.00
 
  
 
105.49
 
  
 
66.46
 
  
 
84.05
 
  
 
96.71
 
  
 
98.75
 

 S&P Composite 1500 Diversified Financials
  
 
100.00
 
  
 
85.64
 
  
 
39.44
 
  
 
52.71
 
  
 
55.88
 
  
 
40.04
 

  26 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.
SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA  (Dollars in millions, shares in thousands, except per share amounts):   




























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
2011 
 
  
2010 
 
 
2009 
 
 
2008 
 
 
2007 
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 Results of Operations:(1)
  



  



 



 



 



 




 Net operating interest income
  
$
1,220.0
 
  
$
1,226.3
 
 
$
1,260.6
 
 
$
1,268.0
 
 
$
1,583.6
 
 
 
(1
)% 

 Total net revenue
  
$
2,036.6
 
  
$
2,077.9
 
 
$
2,217.0
 
 
$
1,925.6
 
 
$
161.7
 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Provision for loan losses
  
$
440.6
 
  
$
779.4
 
 
$
1,498.1
 
 
$
1,583.7
 
 
$
640.1
 
 
 
(43
)% 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
156.7
 
  
$
(28.5
) 
 
$
(1,297.8
) 
 
$
(809.4
) 
 
$
(1,442.3
) 
 
 
*
  

 Net income (loss)
  
$
156.7
 
  
$
(28.5
) 
 
$
(1,297.8
) 
 
$
(511.8
) 
 
$
(1,441.8
) 
 
 
*
  

 Basic earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations
  
$
0.59
 
  
$
(0.13
) 
 
$
(11.85
) 
 
$
(15.88
) 
 
$
(33.98
) 
 
 
*
  

 Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations
  
$
0.54
 
  
$
(0.13
) 
 
$
(11.85
) 
 
$
(15.88
) 
 
$
(33.98
) 
 
 
*
  

 Basic net earnings (loss) per share
  
$
0.59
 
  
$
(0.13
) 
 
$
(11.85
) 
 
$
(10.04
) 
 
$
(33.97
) 
 
 
*
  

 Diluted net earnings (loss) per share
  
$
0.54
 
  
$
(0.13
) 
 
$
(11.85
) 
 
$
(10.04
) 
 
$
(33.97
) 
 
 
*
  

 Weighted average shares—basic
  
 
267,291
 
  
 
211,302
 
 
 
109,544
 
 
 
50,986
 
 
 
42,444
 
 
 
26
% 

 Weighted average shares—diluted
  
 
289,822
 
  
 
211,302
 
 
 
109,544
 
 
 
50,986
 
 
 
42,444
 
 
 
37
% 
  


*
Percentage not meaningful. 


(1) 
 In 2008, the Company sold its Canadian brokerage business and exited its direct retail lending business. 
(Dollars in millions):   




























 
  
December 31,
 
  
Variance
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 
  
2011 vs. 2010
 

 Financial Condition:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Available-for-sale securities
  
$
15,651.5
 
  
$
14,805.7
 
  
$
13,319.7
 
  
$
10,806.1
 
  
$
11,255.0
 
  
 
6
% 

 Held-to-maturity securities
  
$
6,079.5
 
  
$
2,462.7
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
147
% 

 Margin receivables
  
$
4,826.3
 
  
$
5,120.6
 
  
$
3,827.2
 
  
$
2,791.2
 
  
$
7,179.2
 
  
 
(6
)% 

 Loans receivable, net
  
$
12,332.8
 
  
$
15,121.9
 
  
$
19,167.1
 
  
$
24,451.8
 
  
$
30,038.8
 
  
 
(18
)% 

 Total assets
  
$
47,940.5
 
  
$
46,373.0
 
  
$
47,366.5
 
  
$
48,538.2
 
  
$
56,845.9
 
  
 
3
% 

 Deposits
  
$
26,460.0
 
  
$
25,240.3
 
  
$
25,597.7
 
  
$
26,136.2
 
  
$
25,884.8
 
  
 
5
% 

 Corporate debt
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Interest-bearing
  
$
1,450.5
 
  
$
1,441.9
 
  
$
1,437.8
 
  
$
2,750.5
 
  
$
3,022.7
 
  
 
1
% 

 Non-interest-bearing
  
$
43.0
 
  
$
704.0
 
  
$
1,020.9
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
(94
)% 

 Shareholders’ equity
  
$
4,928.0
 
  
$
4,052.4
 
  
$
3,749.6
 
  
$
2,591.5
 
  
$
2,829.1
 
  
 
22
% 

  27 


Table of Contents
 




























 
 
As of or For the Year Ended December 31,
 
 
Variance
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 Customer Activity Metrics:(1)
 



 



 



 



 



 




 DARTs 
 
 
157,475
 
 
 
150,532
 
 
 
179,183
 
 
 
169,075
 
 
 
161,119
 
 
 
5
% 

 Average commission per trade 
 
$
11.01
 
 
$
11.21
 
 
$
11.33
 
 
$
10.98
 
 
$
11.57
 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Margin receivables (dollars in billions) 
 
$
4.8
 
 
$
5.1
 
 
$
3.7
 
 
$
2.7
 
 
$
6.6
 
 
 
(6
)% 

 End of period brokerage accounts
 
 
2,783,012
 
 
 
2,684,311
 
 
 
2,630,079
 
 
 
2,515,806
 
 
 
2,373,265
 
 
 
4
% 

 Net new brokerage accounts 
 
 
98,701
 
 
 
54,232
 
 
 
114,273
 
 
 
142,541
 
 
 
4,688
 
 
 
*
  

 Customer assets (dollars in billions) 
 
$
172.4
 
 
$
176.2
 
 
$
150.5
 
 
$
110.1
 
 
$
181.3
 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Net new brokerage assets (dollars in billions) 
 
$
9.7
 
 
$
8.1
 
 
$
7.2
 
 
$
3.9
 
 
$
(13.3
) 
 
 
*
  

 Brokerage related cash (dollars in billions) 
 
$
27.7
 
 
$
24.5
 
 
$
20.4
 
 
$
15.8
 
 
$
17.5
 
 
 
13
% 

 Company Metrics: 
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Corporate cash (dollars in millions) 
 
$
484.4
 
 
$
470.5
 
 
$
393.2
 
 
$
434.9
 
 
$
312.4
 
 
 
3
% 

 E*TRADE Financial Tier I leverage ratio 
 
 
5.7
% 
 
 
3.6
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
2.1
% 

 E*TRADE Financial Tier I common ratio 
 
 
9.4
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
4.6
% 

 E*TRADE Bank Tier I capital ratio 
 
 
7.8
% 
 
 
7.3
% 
 
 
6.7
% 
 
 
6.3
% 
 
 
6.2
% 
 
 
0.5
% 

 Special mention loan delinquencies (dollars in millions) 
 
$
467.1
 
 
$
589.4
 
 
$
804.5
 
 
$
1,035.1
 
 
$
612.2
 
 
 
(21
)% 

 Allowance for loan losses (dollars in millions) 
 
$
822.8
 
 
$
1,031.2
 
 
$
1,182.7
 
 
$
1,080.6
 
 
$
508.2
 
 
 
(20
)% 

 Enterprise net interest spread 
 
 
2.79
% 
 
 
2.91
% 
 
 
2.72
% 
 
 
2.52
% 
 
 
2.64
% 
 
 
(0.12
)% 

 Enterprise interest-earning assets (average dollars in billions) 
 
$
42.7
 
 
$
41.1
 
 
$
44.5
 
 
$
46.9
 
 
$
56.1
 
 
 
4
% 

 Total employees (period end) 
 
 
3,240
 
 
 
2,962
 
 
 
3,084
 
 
 
3,249
 
 
 
3,757
 
 
 
9
% 
  


*
Percentage not meaningful. 


(1) 
 Metrics have been represented to exclude activity from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and international
local market trading for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  The selected consolidated
financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
  28 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear
elsewhere in this document.   GLOSSARY OF TERMS  In analyzing and discussing our business, we utilize certain metrics, ratios and other terms that are defined in the Glossary of Terms, which is located at the end of Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  OVERVIEW 
Strategy  Our core
business is our trading and investing customer franchise. Building on the strengths of this franchise, our growth strategy is focused on:   


 
•
 
 Strengthening our overall financial and franchise position. We are focused on strengthening our overall capital structure and continuing to
mitigate credit losses in our loan portfolio. We are also focused on positioning the Company for future growth and maintaining disciplined expense management. 
 


 
•
 
 Improving our market position in our retail brokerage business. We plan to grow our customer base by continuing to increase our sales force,
focus on long-term investing and develop innovative products and services.   


 
•
 
 Accelerating the growth of our corporate services and market making businesses. Our corporate services and market making businesses enhance our
strategy by allowing us to realize additional economic benefit from our retail brokerage business.   


 
•
 
 Enhancing our position with long-term investors. We believe growing our investing and retirement products and services is key to our long term
success. Our primary focus is to expand the reach of our brand along with the awareness of our products to this key customer segment.   


 
•
 
 Optimizing the value of our bank franchise. Our retail brokerage business generates a significant amount of customer cash and we plan to
continue to utilize our bank to optimize the value of these customer deposits.  Key Factors Affecting Financial
Performance  Our financial performance is affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including:
  


 
•
 
 customer demand for financial products and services;   


 
•
 
 weakness or strength of the residential real estate and credit markets; 
 


 
•
 
 performance, volume and volatility of the equity and capital markets; 
 


 
•
 
 customer perception of the financial strength of our franchise; 
 


 
•
 
 market demand and liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans and securities; 
 


 
•
 
 market demand and liquidity in the wholesale borrowings market, including securities sold under agreements to repurchase; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to obtain regulatory approval to move capital from our bank to our parent company; and 
 


 
•
 
 changes to the rules and regulations governing the financial services industry. 
  29 


Table of Contents
In addition to the items noted above, our success in the future will depend upon, among
other things:   


 
•
 
 continuing our success in the acquisition, growth and retention of trading customers; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to generate meaningful growth in the long-term investing customer group; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to assess and manage credit risk;   


 
•
 
 our ability to generate capital sufficient to meet our operating needs at both our bank and our parent company; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to assess and manage interest rate risk; and 
 


 
•
 
 disciplined expense control and improved operational efficiency. 
Management monitors a number of metrics in evaluating the Company’s performance. The most significant of these are shown in the
table and discussed in the text below:   




















  
  
As of or For theYear
Ended December 31,
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 Customer Activity Metrics:(1)
  



 



 



 




 DARTs 
  
 
157,475
 
 
 
150,532
 
 
 
179,183
 
 
 
5
% 

 Average commission per trade 
  
$
11.01
 
 
$
11.21
 
 
$
11.33
 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Margin receivables (dollars in billions) 
  
$
4.8
 
 
$
5.1
 
 
$
3.7
 
 
 
(6
)% 

 End of period brokerage accounts
  
 
2,783,012
 
 
 
2,684,311
 
 
 
2,630,079
 
 
 
4
% 

 Net new brokerage accounts 
  
 
98,701
 
 
 
54,232
 
 
 
114,273
 
 
 
*
  

 Customer assets (dollars in billions) 
  
$
172.4
 
 
$
176.2
 
 
$
150.5
 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Net new brokerage assets (dollars in billions) 
  
$
9.7
 
 
$
8.1
 
 
$
7.2
 
 
 
*
  

 Brokerage related cash (dollars in billions) 
  
$
27.7
 
 
$
24.5
 
 
$
20.4
 
 
 
13
% 

 Company Financial Metrics: 
  



 



 



 




 Corporate cash (dollars in millions) 
  
$
484.4
 
 
$
470.5
 
 
$
393.2
 
 
 
3
% 

 E*TRADE Financial Tier I leverage ratio
  
 
5.7
% 
 
 
3.6
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
2.1
% 

 E*TRADE Financial Tier I common ratio
  
 
9.4
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
4.6
% 

 E*TRADE Bank Tier I capital ratio 
  
 
7.8
% 
 
 
7.3
% 
 
 
6.7
% 
 
 
0.5
% 

 Special mention loan delinquencies (dollars in millions) 
  
$
467.1
 
 
$
589.4
 
 
$
804.5
 
 
 
(21
)% 

 Allowance for loan losses (dollars in millions) 
  
$
822.8
 
 
$
1,031.2
 
 
$
1,182.7
 
 
 
(20
)% 

 Enterprise net interest spread 
  
 
2.79
% 
 
 
2.91
% 
 
 
2.72
% 
 
 
(0.12
)% 

 Enterprise interest-earning assets (average dollars in billions) 
  
$
42.7
 
 
$
41.1
 
 
$
44.5
 
 
 
4
% 
  


*
Percentage not meaningful. 


(1) 
 The year ended December 31, 2009 presented has been updated to exclude international local market trading. 
Customer Activity Metrics   


 
•
 
 DARTs are the predominant driver of commissions revenue from our customers. 
 


 
•
 
 Average commission per trade is an indicator of changes in our customer mix, product mix and/or product pricing. 
 


 
•
 
 Margin receivables represent credit extended to customers to finance their purchases of securities by borrowing against securities they own. Margin
receivables are a key driver of net operating interest income.   


 
•
 
 End of period brokerage accounts and net new brokerage accounts are indicators of our ability to attract and retain brokerage customers.

  30 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Changes in customer assets are an indicator of the value of our relationship with the customer. An increase in customer assets generally indicates that
the use of our products and services by existing and new customers is expanding. Changes in this metric are also driven by changes in the valuations of our customers’ underlying securities. 
 


 
•
 
 Net new brokerage assets are total inflows to all new and existing brokerage accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing brokerage
accounts and are a general indicator of the use of our products and services by existing and new brokerage customers.   


 
•
 
 Customer cash and deposits, particularly brokerage related cash, are an indicator of a deepening engagement with our customers and are a key driver of
net operating interest income.  Company Financial Metrics 
 


 
•
 
 Corporate cash is an indicator of the liquidity at the parent company. It is the primary source of capital above and beyond the capital deployed in our
regulated subsidiaries.   


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Financial Tier I leverage ratio is Tier I capital divided by average total assets for the holding company for leverage capital purposes.
E*TRADE Financial Tier I common ratio is Tier I capital less elements of Tier I capital that are not in the form of common equity, such as trust preferred securities, divided by total risk-weighted assets for the holding company. The Tier I leverage
and Tier I common ratios are non-GAAP measures as the holding company is not yet held to these capital requirements. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures.
  


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Bank Tier I capital ratio is Tier I capital divided by adjusted total assets for E*TRADE Bank and is an indication of E*TRADE Bank’s
capital adequacy.   


 
•
 
 Special mention loan delinquencies are loans 30-89 days past due and are an indicator of the expected trend for charge-offs in future periods as these
loans have a greater propensity to migrate into nonaccrual status and ultimately charge-off.   


 
•
 
 Allowance for loan losses is an estimate of probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date and is typically equal to
management’s forecast of loan losses in the twelve months following the balance sheet date as well as the forecasted losses, including economic concessions to borrowers, over the estimated remaining life of loans modified as troubled debt
restructurings (“TDR”). See Summary of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for a discussion of the estimates and assumptions used in the allowance for loan losses. 
 


 
•
 
 Enterprise interest-earning assets, in conjunction with our enterprise net interest spread, are indicators of our ability to generate net operating
interest income.  Significant Events in 2011  Enhancements to Our Trading and Investing Products and Services   


 
•
 
 We continued to grow our sales force, increasing our financial consultant team by 42% in 2011, as we continued to focus on engagement with long-term
and retirement investors, as well as corporate clients;   


 
•
 
 We developed E*TRADE 360, a fully dynamic and customizable online investing dashboard now available to all customers. 
 


 
•
 
 We developed a newly redesigned public website featuring simplified navigation, personalization based on objectives and experience levels, and enhanced
content. 
  31 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 We launched the E*TRADE Community, which utilizes social media to offer customers a platform to interact with one another and share ideas and
strategies with other E*TRADE customers;   


 
•
 
 We added several new features to our E*TRADE Pro platform, including new options strategies (multi-legged orders), expanded CNBC content and
logarithmic charts;   


 
•
 
 We introduced a suite of sophisticated Options Tools designed to help traders quickly and easily identify and analyze potential investment
opportunities;   


 
•
 
 We provided E*TRADE Securities’ customers with access to the AIG public offering, advocating for retail investors to have access to initial public
offerings and other offerings typically limited to institutional investors;   


 
•
 
 We launched a number of enhancements for Mobile Pro, including mobile check deposit capability for Apple iPhone® and AndroidTM;   


 
•
 
 We introduced weekly options on select stocks, indexes and ETFs; 
 


 
•
 
 We expanded tools, education and research offerings in the Bond Resource Center; 
 


 
•
 
 We continued to expand our free investor education offerings across a number of channels including online videos, live and on-demand web seminars, and
live events;   


 
•
 
 We strengthened our retirement offering with Rollover Specialists as well as Certified Retirement Planning Counselors added in nearly every branch, and
expanded educational resources with additional videos and seminars, commentary, planning checklists, Rollover Quiz, IRA selection tools and upgraded Tax Center; 
 


 
•
 
 We enhanced our customer service offering with 24/7 online chat capabilities, an e-mail platform available to prospects, and an enhanced online service
center;   


 
•
 
 We launched portfolio margin accounts, which provide sophisticated traders with additional tools to manage risk and leverage capital;
  


 
•
 
 We introduced unified managed account advisory services to long-term investors seeking professional money management services with an investment of
$250,000 or more; and   


 
•
 
 We expanded our corporate services client base by bringing on 46 new clients and continued to execute our strategy to service both private and public
companies as a foundation for future retail brokerage account growth.  Market Recognition 
 


 
•
 
 Our corporate services business received top ratings in overall satisfaction and loyalty among broker plan administrators by Group Five, an independent
consulting and research firm, in its 2011 Stock Plan Administration Benchmarking Study; and   


 
•
 
 Our customer service team was awarded the 2011 International Service Excellence Award in the Contact Center category, based on a proven display of
excellence, professionalism and outstanding service achievement.  Issuance and Extinguishment of Senior Notes
  


 
•
 
 During the year, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $435 million in 6  3/4% senior notes due May 2016 (“2016 Notes”). We used the
proceeds to redeem all of the outstanding
7  3/8% senior notes due September 2013
(“2013 Notes”), including paying the associated redemption premium, accrued interest and related fees and expenses.  Conversions of Convertible Debentures   


 
•
 
 During the year, a total of $660.9 million in convertible debentures were converted into 63.9 million shares of common stock, increasing
shareholders’ equity by $661 million. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Legal Settlements for the Auction Rate Securities and Freudenberg Matters 
 


 
•
 
 We reached a settlement with the Colorado Division of Securities and the NASAA whereby E*TRADE Securities LLC offered to purchase auction rate
securities from eligible investors who purchased those securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC. We recorded a reserve of $48 million in connection with this settlement. We also entered into a memorandum of understanding to settle the
Freudenberg Action, which resulted in the recording of a net reserve of $10.8 million as of December 
31, 2011.  EARNINGS OVERVIEW  2011 Compared to 2010  We generated net income of $156.7
million, or $0.54 per diluted share, on total net revenue of $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011. Commissions, fees and service charges, principal transactions and other revenue decreased 2% to $711.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to 2010, which was driven primarily by the elimination of all account activity fees, which took effect in the second quarter of 2010. In addition, gains on loans and securities, net and net impairment decreased 18% to
$105.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010.  Provision for loan losses declined 43% to $440.6
million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010, driven by improving credit trends and loan portfolio run-off. Total operating expenses increased 8% to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. This
increase was driven primarily by increases in advertising and market development expense, FDIC insurance premiums and other operating expenses during the year ended December 31, 2011. 
The following sections describe in detail the changes in key operating factors and other changes and events that affected net revenue,
provision for loan losses, operating expense, other income (expense) and income tax expense (benefit).  Revenue 
The components of revenue and the resulting variances are as follows (dollars in millions): 
 




















 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
        2011        

 
 
    2010    
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Net operating interest income
  
$
1,220.0
 
 
$
1,226.3
 
 
$
(6.3
) 
 
 
(1
)% 

 Commissions
  
 
436.2
 
 
 
431.0
 
 
 
5.2
 
 
 
1
% 

 Fees and service charges
  
 
130.4
 
 
 
142.4
 
 
 
(12.0
) 
 
 
(8
)% 

 Principal transactions
  
 
105.4
 
 
 
103.4
 
 
 
2.0
 
 
 
2
% 

 Gains on loans and securities, net
  
 
120.2
 
 
 
166.2
 
 
 
(46.0
) 
 
 
(28
)% 

 Net impairment
  
 
(14.9
) 
 
 
(37.7
) 
 
 
22.8
 
 
 
(60
)% 

 Other revenues
  
 
39.3
 
 
 
46.3
 
 
 
(7.0
) 
 
 
(15
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total non-interest income
  
 
816.6
 
 
 
851.6
 
 
 
(35.0
) 
 
 
(4
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total net revenue
  
$
      2,036.6
 
 
$
2,077.9
 
 
$
(41.3
) 
 
 
(2
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Net Operating Interest Income  Net operating interest income decreased 1% to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. Net operating interest income is earned primarily through investing customer cash and
deposits in interest-earning assets, which include: margin receivables, real estate loans, available-for-sale securities and held-to-maturity securities.  The following table presents enterprise average balance sheet data and enterprise income and expense data for our operations, as well as the related net interest spread, yields and rates and has been
prepared on the basis required by the SEC’s Industry Guide 3, “Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies” (dollars in millions): 
  33 


Table of Contents








































 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011 
 
 
2010 
 
 
2009 
 

 
 
AverageBalance 
 
 
OperatingInterestInc./Exp. 
 
 
AverageYield/Cost
 
 
AverageBalance 
 
 
OperatingInterestInc./Exp. 
 
 
AverageYield/Cost
 
 
AverageBalance 
 
 
OperatingInterestInc./Exp. 
 
 
AverageYield/Cost
 

 Enterprise interest-earning assets:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Loans(1)
 
$
14,689.8
 
 
$
692.1
 
 
 
4.71
% 
 
$
18,302.2
 
 
$
879.0
 
 
 
4.80
% 
 
$
23,113.6
 
 
$
1,138.1
 
 
 
4.92
% 

 Margin receivables
 
 
5,374.8
 
 
 
221.7
 
 
 
4.13
% 
 
 
4,532.5
 
 
 
200.3
 
 
 
4.42
% 
 
 
3,103.5
 
 
 
138.5
 
 
 
4.46
% 

 Available-for-sale securities
 
 
15,326.5
 
 
 
422.5
 
 
 
2.76
% 
 
 
13,275.9
 
 
 
387.5
 
 
 
2.92
% 
 
 
11,593.3
 
 
 
473.1
 
 
 
4.08
% 

 Held-to-maturity securities
 
 
4,177.1
 
 
 
136.9
 
 
 
3.28
% 
 
 
1,085.8
 
 
 
35.9
 
 
 
3.31
% 
 
 
—  
 
 
 
—  
 
 
 
—  
 

 Cash and equivalents
 
 
1,618.9
 
 
 
3.2
 
 
 
0.20
% 
 
 
2,414.3
 
 
 
5.4
 
 
 
0.22
% 
 
 
4,215.7
 
 
 
14.8
 
 
 
0.35
% 

 Segregated cash and investments
 
 
915.6
 
 
 
0.9
 
 
 
0.10
% 
 
 
857.1
 
 
 
1.9
 
 
 
0.22
% 
 
 
1,785.7
 
 
 
4.2
 
 
 
0.23
% 

 Securities borrowed and other
 
 
620.9
 
 
 
48.8
 
 
 
7.85
% 
 
 
662.9
 
 
 
29.4
 
 
 
4.43
% 
 
 
690.4
 
 
 
50.4
 
 
 
7.30
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total enterprise interest-earning assets
 
 
42,723.6
 
 
 
1,526.1
 
 
 
3.57
% 
 
 
41,130.7
 
 
 
1,539.4
 
 
 
3.74
% 
 
 
44,502.2
 
 
 
1,819.1
 
 
 
4.09
% 


 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 




 Non-operating interest-earning and non-interest earning
assets(2)
 
 
4,339.5
 
 



 



 
 
4,395.1
 
 



 



 
 
3,873.3
 
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total assets
 
$
47,063.1
 
 



 



 
$
45,525.8
 
 



 



 
$
48,375.5
 
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Enterprise interest-bearing liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Retail deposits:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Sweep deposits
 
$
17,513.1
 
 
 
13.4
 
 
 
0.08
% 
 
$
14,014.4
 
 
 
10.1
 
 
 
0.07
% 
 
$
11,022.3
 
 
 
7.6
 
 
 
0.07
% 

 Complete savings deposits
 
 
6,174.4
 
 
 
16.1
 
 
 
0.26
% 
 
 
7,577.0
 
 
 
28.6
 
 
 
0.38
% 
 
 
11,539.9
 
 
 
140.1
 
 
 
1.21
% 

 Other money market and savings deposits
 
 
1,071.5
 
 
 
2.5
 
 
 
0.23
% 
 
 
1,114.6
 
 
 
2.8
 
 
 
0.25
% 
 
 
1,243.7
 
 
 
5.9
 
 
 
0.47
% 

 Checking deposits
 
 
783.2
 
 
 
0.8
 
 
 
0.10
% 
 
 
761.9
 
 
 
0.9
 
 
 
0.11
% 
 
 
797.5
 
 
 
3.0
 
 
 
0.37
% 

 Certificates of deposit
 
 
270.7
 
 
 
7.3
 
 
 
2.70
% 
 
 
795.3
 
 
 
14.5
 
 
 
1.82
% 
 
 
1,750.4
 
 
 
45.2
 
 
 
2.58
% 

 Brokered certificates of deposit
 
 
48.8
 
 
 
2.7
 
 
 
5.58
% 
 
 
115.3
 
 
 
5.9
 
 
 
5.14
% 
 
 
193.8
 
 
 
10.0
 
 
 
5.17
% 

 Customer payables
 
 
5,456.3
 
 
 
8.6
 
 
 
0.16
% 
 
 
4,713.2
 
 
 
7.0
 
 
 
0.15
% 
 
 
4,662.9
 
 
 
8.8
 
 
 
0.19
% 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
 
 
5,417.2
 
 
 
153.1
 
 
 
2.83
% 
 
 
6,154.3
 
 
 
129.6
 
 
 
2.11
% 
 
 
6,725.4
 
 
 
200.1
 
 
 
2.98
% 

 Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances and other borrowings
 
 
2,741.1
 
 
 
106.2
 
 
 
3.87
% 
 
 
2,754.3
 
 
 
119.3
 
 
 
4.33
% 
 
 
3,392.0
 
 
 
148.8
 
 
 
4.38
% 

 Securities loaned and other
 
 
634.8
 
 
 
1.5
 
 
 
0.23
% 
 
 
622.4
 
 
 
1.6
 
 
 
0.26
% 
 
 
513.0
 
 
 
2.4
 
 
 
0.46
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total enterprise interest-bearing liabilities
 
 
40,111.1
 
 
 
312.2
 
 
 
0.78
% 
 
 
38,622.7
 
 
 
320.3
 
 
 
0.83
% 
 
 
41,840.9
 
 
 
571.9
 
 
 
1.37
% 


 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 




 Non-operating interest-bearing and non-interest bearing liabilities(3)
 
 
2,285.9
 
 



 



 
 
2,876.4
 
 



 



 
 
3,558.5
 
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total liabilities
 
 
42,397.0
 
 



 



 
 
41,499.1
 
 



 



 
 
45,399.4
 
 



 




 Total shareholders’ equity
 
 
4,666.1
 
 



 



 
 
4,026.7
 
 



 



 
 
2,976.1
 
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
 
$
47,063.1
 
 



 



 
$
45,525.8
 
 



 



 
$
48,375.5
 
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Excess of enterprise interest-earning assets over enterprise interest-bearing liabilities/Enterprise net interest
income/Spread 
 
$
 2,612.5
 
 
$
1,213.9
 
 
 
2.79
% 
 
$
2,508.0
 
 
$
1,219.1
 
 
 
2.91
% 
 
$
2,661.3
 
 
$
1,247.2
 
 
 
2.72
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  


Reconciliation
from enterprise net interest income to net operating interest income (dollars in millions): 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Enterprise net interest income
  
$
1,213.9
 
 
$
1,219.1
 
 
$
1,247.2
 

 Taxable equivalent interest adjustment
  
 
(1.2
) 
 
 
(1.2
) 
 
 
(2.1
) 

 Customer cash held by third parties and
other(4)
  
 
7.3
 
 
 
8.4
 
 
 
15.5
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net operating interest income
  
$
1,220.0
 
 
$
1,226.3
 
 
$
1,260.6
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 Nonaccrual loans are included in the respective average loan balances.
Income on such nonaccrual loans is recognized on a cash basis. 


(2)
 Non-operating interest-earning and non-interest earning assets consist of
property and equipment, net, goodwill, other intangibles, net and other assets that do not generate operating interest income. Some of these assets generate corporate interest income. 


(3)
 Non-operating interest-bearing and non-interest bearing liabilities consist
of corporate debt and other liabilities that do not generate operating interest expense. Some of these liabilities generate corporate interest expense. 


(4)
 Includes interest earned on average customer assets of $3.7 billion, $3.1
billion and $2.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, held by parties outside the Company, including third party money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated financial institutions.

  34 


Table of Contents
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Enterprise net interest:
  



 



 




 Spread
  
 
2.79
% 
 
 
2.91
% 
 
 
2.72
% 

 Margin (net yield on interest-earning assets)
  
 
2.84
% 
 
 
2.96
% 
 
 
2.80
% 

 Ratio of enterprise interest-earning assets to enterprise interest-bearing liabilities
  
 
106.51
% 
 
 
106.49
% 
 
 
106.36
% 

 Return on average:
  



 



 




 Total assets
  
 
0.33
% 
 
 
(0.06
)% 
 
 
(2.68
)% 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
3.36
% 
 
 
(0.71
)% 
 
 
(43.61
)% 

 Average equity to average total assets
  
 
9.91
% 
 
 
8.84
% 
 
 
6.15
% 
 The fluctuation in enterprise interest-earning assets is driven primarily by changes in enterprise
interest-earning liabilities, specifically customer cash and deposits. Average enterprise interest-earning assets increased 4% to $42.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. This was primarily a result of the increases
in average margin receivables and average available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, offset by decreases in average loans and average cash and equivalents.  Average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities increased 4% to $40.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities
was primarily due to increases in average sweep deposits and average customer payables, offset by a decrease in average securities sold under agreements to repurchase.  Enterprise net interest spread decreased by 12 basis points to 2.79% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010, reflecting yields on average enterprise interest-earning assets and the
current interest rate environment. We expect enterprise net interest spread to continue to compress and, given the continued challenges of the current interest rate environment, our enterprise net interest spread could average less than 2.50% for
the year ending December 31, 2012.  Commissions  Commissions revenue increased 1% to $436.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The main factors that affect commissions are DARTs, average commission per trade and the
number of trading days during the period. Average commission per trade is impacted by different trade types (e.g. equities, options, fixed income, stock plan, exchange-traded funds, mutual funds and cross border) that can have different commission
rates. Accordingly, changes in the mix of trade types will impact average commission per trade. 
  35 


Table of Contents
DART volume increased 5% to 157,475 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to
2010. Option-related DARTs as a percentage of total DARTs represented 21% of trading volume for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 17% in 2010. Exchange-traded funds-related DARTs as a percentage of total DARTs represented 11% of
trading volume for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 10% in 2010.  Average commission per trade decreased 2%
to $11.01 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease was driven by a change in the customer mix; specifically customers who have a higher commission per trade traded less during the year compared to our active trader
customers, who generally have lower commission per trade, when compared to 2010.  Fees and Service Charges 
Fees and service charges decreased 8% to $130.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease for the
year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to the elimination of all account activity fees, which took effect in the second quarter of 2010.  Principal Transactions  Principal transactions increased 2% to $105.4
million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. Principal transactions are derived from our market making business in which we act as a market-maker for our brokerage customers’ orders as well as orders from third party
customers. The increase in principal transactions revenue was driven by a favorable mix of trading volume and revenue earned per share, as well as a continued focus on expanding our external customer base, when compared to 2010. 
Gains on Loans and Securities, Net  Gains on loans and securities, net were $120.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $166.2 million in 2010, as shown in the following table (dollars in millions): 
 




















 
  
Year Ended
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Gains on loans, net
  
$
0.1
 
 
$
6.3
 
 
$
(6.2
) 
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gains on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
124.4
 
 
 
160.7
 
 
 
(36.3
) 
 
 
(23
)% 

 Gains (losses) on trading securities, net
  
 
(1.9
) 
 
 
0.2
 
 
 
(2.1
) 
 
 
*
  

 Hedge ineffectiveness
  
 
(2.4
) 
 
 
(1.0
) 
 
 
(1.4
) 
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gains on securities, net
  
 
120.1
 
 
 
159.9
 
 
 
(39.8
) 
 
 
(25
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gains on loans and securities, net
  
$
120.2
 
 
$
166.2
 
 
$
(46.0
) 
 
 
(28
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  


*
Percentage not meaningful.  The
decrease of 28% to $120.2 million in gains on loans and securities, net for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010, was primarily due to more trading volatility in 2010 when compared to 2011. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Net Impairment  We recognized $14.9 million of net impairment during the year ended December 31, 2011, on certain securities in our non-agency CMO portfolio due to continued deterioration in the expected credit
performance of the underlying loans in those specific securities. The gross other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) and the noncredit portion of OTTI, which was or had been previously recorded through other comprehensive income, are shown
in the table below (dollars in millions):   












 
  
Year EndedDecember
31,
 

 
  

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”)
  
$
(9.2
) 
 
$
(41.5
) 

 Less: noncredit portion of OTTI recognized into (out of)other comprehensive income (loss) (before tax)
  
 
(5.7
) 
 
 
3.8
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net impairment
  
$
(14.9)
  
 
$
(37.7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Other Revenues  Other revenues decreased 15% to $39.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease was due primarily to the gain on sale of approximately $1 billion in savings accounts
to Discover Financial Services in the first quarter of 2010, which increased other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
Provision for Loan Losses  Provision for loan losses decreased 43% to $440.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease in provision for loan losses was driven by improving credit trends and
loan portfolio run-off, as evidenced by the lower levels of delinquent loans in the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios. The provision for loan losses has declined for three consecutive years, down 72% from its peak of $1.6 billion
for the year ended December 31, 2008. We expect provision for loan losses to continue to decline in 2012 compared to 2011, although it is subject to variability from quarter to quarter. 
As we transition from the OTS to the OCC, we are evaluating programs and practices that were designed in accordance with guidance from
the OTS. We are working to align certain policies and procedures to the guidance from the OCC and have suspended certain loan modification programs that will require changes. We increased the qualitative reserve in 2011 to reflect additional
estimated losses during the period of reduced activity in our modification programs, as well as uncertainty around certain loans modified under our previous programs. Once the evaluation of the existing programs and practices is complete and any
necessary changes have been implemented, we will re-assess the overall qualitative reserve. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Operating Expense  The components of operating expense and the resulting variances are as follows (dollars in millions):   




















 
  
Year Ended
 
  
Variance
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
     2011     
 
  
     2010     
 
  
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Compensation and benefits
  
$
333.6
 
  
$
325.0
 
  
$
8.6
 
 
 
3
% 

 Clearing and servicing
  
 
147.1
 
  
 
147.5
 
  
 
(0.4
) 
 
 
(0
)% 

 Advertising and market development
  
 
145.2
 
  
 
132.2
 
  
 
13.0
 
 
 
10
% 

 FDIC insurance premiums
  
 
105.4
 
  
 
77.7
 
  
 
27.7
 
 
 
36
% 

 Professional services
  
 
89.7
 
  
 
81.2
 
  
 
8.5
 
 
 
10
% 

 Occupancy and equipment
  
 
68.8
 
  
 
70.9
 
  
 
(2.1
) 
 
 
(3
)% 

 Communications
  
 
67.3
 
  
 
73.3
 
  
 
(6.0
) 
 
 
(8
)% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
89.6
 
  
 
87.9
 
  
 
1.7
 
 
 
2
% 

 Amortization of other intangibles
  
 
26.2
 
  
 
28.5
 
  
 
(2.3
) 
 
 
(8
)% 

 Facility restructuring and other exit activities
  
 
7.7
 
  
 
14.4
 
  
 
(6.7
) 
 
 
*
  

 Other operating expenses
  
 
154.3
 
  
 
104.0
 
  
 
50.3
 
 
 
48
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total operating expense
  
$
1,234.9
 
  
$
1,142.6
 
  
$
92.3
 
 
 
8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



  


*
Percentage not meaningful.  Compensation and
Benefits  Compensation and benefits increased 3% to $333.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to
2010. The increase resulted primarily from higher compensation expense as a result of increasing our financial consultants by 42%, partially offset by a decrease in incentive compensation.  Advertising and Market Development  Advertising and market development
expense increased 10% to $145.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. This fluctuation was due largely to the planned increase in advertising expenditures in our continuing effort to attract new accounts and customer
assets during the year ended December 31, 2011.  FDIC Insurance Premiums 
FDIC insurance premiums increased 36% to $105.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The increase was due
primarily to an industry wide change in the FDIC insurance premium assessment calculation, effective in the second quarter of 2011. 
Professional Services 
Professional services increased 10% to $89.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The increase was due
primarily to a $6.0 million credit in connection with a legal settlement in the third quarter of 2010, which decreased professional services for the year ended December 31, 2010. There were no similar settlements made during the year ended
December 31, 2011.  Communications  Communications expense decreased 8% to $67.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease was driven primarily by a decline in vendor services fees compared to 2010.

  38 


Table of Contents
Other Operating Expenses  Other operating expenses increased 48% to $154.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The increase was driven by a reserve of $48 million related to an offer to purchase
auction rate securities held by customers of E*TRADE Securities LLC, as well as former customers who purchased auction rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC. This reserve relates primarily to our estimate of the securities’ current
fair value relative to their par value and includes penalties and other estimated settlement costs. We also entered into a memorandum of understanding to settle the Freudenberg Action, which resulted in the recording of a net reserve of $10.8
million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  Other Income (Expense) 
Other income (expense) increased 11% to $175.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 as shown in the
following table (dollars in millions):   




















 
  
Year Ended
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Corporate interest income
  
$
0.7
 
 
$
6.2
 
 
$
(5.5
) 
 
 
(89
)% 

 Corporate interest expense
  
 
(177.8
) 
 
 
(167.1
) 
 
 
(10.7
) 
 
 
6
% 

 Gains on sales of investments, net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2.7
 
 
 
(2.7
) 
 
 
*
  

 Gains on early extinguishment of debt
  
 
3.1
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3.1
 
 
 
*
  

 Equity in loss of investments and venture funds
  
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
(0.8
) 
 
 
(1.0
) 
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total other income (expense)
  
$
(175.8
) 
 
$
(159.0
) 
 
$
(16.8
) 
 
 
11
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  


*
Percentage not meaningful. 
Total other income (expense) primarily consisted of corporate interest expense on interest-bearing corporate debt for the year ended
December 31, 2011. Corporate interest expense increased 6% to $177.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. In addition to the stated interest on corporate debt, the corporate interest expense line item included the
benefit of discontinued fair value hedges on corporate debt, which decreased $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. Offsetting interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was a $3.1 million gain on
early extinguishment of debt related to the call of the 2013 Notes in the second quarter of 2011. Offsetting corporate interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was a benefit of $6.0 million related to a legal settlement.
 Income Tax Expense (Benefit)  Income tax expense was $28.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $25.3 million in 2010. The effective tax rate was 15.4% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to
806.3% in 2010. During the third quarter of 2011, we recorded an income tax benefit of $61.7 million related to the taxable liquidation of a European subsidiary. The subsidiary was liquidated for U.S. tax purposes in connection with our
international restructuring activities. This liquidation resulted in the taxable recognition of certain losses, including historical acquisition premiums that we incurred internationally. This tax benefit resulted in a corresponding increase to the
deferred tax assets, which were $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our reported pre-tax loss was relatively close to breakeven, which resulted in an unusually high effective tax rate. 
Valuation Allowance  We
are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the
deferred tax assets will not be realized. If we did conclude that a valuation 
  39 


Table of Contents

allowance was required, the resulting loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our analysis of the need for a valuation allowance recognizes
that we are in a cumulative book loss position as of the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, which is considered significant and objective evidence that we may not be able to realize some portion of the deferred tax assets in the future.
However, we did not establish a valuation allowance against federal deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011 as we believe that it is more likely than not that all of these assets will be realized. Approximately two-thirds of existing
federal deferred tax assets are not related to net operating losses and therefore, have no expiration date. We expect to utilize the vast majority of the existing federal deferred tax assets over the next seven years, with a small balance remaining
as a result of the current limitation caused by the ownership change (which is expected to be fully utilized in advance of the statutory carry forward period).  Our evaluation of the need for a valuation allowance focused on identifying significant, objective evidence that we will be able to realize the deferred tax assets in the future. We determined that our
expectations regarding future earnings are objectively verifiable due to various factors. One factor is the consistent profitability of the core business, the trading and investing segment, which has generated substantial income for each of the last
eight years, including through uncertain economic and regulatory environments. The core business is driven by brokerage customer activity and includes trading, brokerage cash, margin lending, long-term investing and other brokerage related
activities. These activities drive variable expenses that correlate to the volume of customer activity, which has resulted in stable, ongoing profitability in this business.  Another factor is the mitigation of losses in the balance sheet management segment, which generated a large net operating loss in 2007 caused by the crisis in the residential real estate and credit
markets. Much of this loss came from the sale of the asset-backed securities portfolio and credit losses from the mortgage loan portfolio. We no longer hold any of those asset-backed securities and shut down mortgage loan acquisition activities in
2007. In effect, the key business activities that led to the generation of the deferred tax assets were shut down over four years ago. As a result, the losses in the balance sheet management segment have continued to decline significantly. In
addition, we continue to realize the benefit of various credit loss mitigation activities for the mortgage loans purchased in 2007 and prior, most notably, actively reducing or closing unused home equity lines of credit and aggressively exercising
put-back clauses to sell back improperly documented loans to the originators. As a result of these loss containment measures, provision for loan losses has declined for three consecutive years, down 72% from its peak of $1.6 billion for the year
ended December 31, 2008.  We maintain a valuation allowance for certain of our state deferred tax assets as it is more
likely than not that they will not be realized. At December 31, 2011, we had state deferred tax assets of approximately $102.1 million that related to our state net operating loss carry forwards and temporary differences with a valuation
allowance of $28.7 million against such deferred tax assets.  Tax Ownership Change 
During the third quarter of 2009, we exchanged $1.7 billion principal amount of interest-bearing debt for an equal principal amount of
non-interest-bearing convertible debentures. Subsequent to the Debt Exchange, $592.3 million and $128.7 million debentures were converted into 57.2 million and 12.5 million shares of common stock during the third and fourth quarters of
2009, respectively. As a result of these conversions, we believe we experienced a tax ownership change during the third quarter of 2009.  As of the date of the ownership change, we had federal NOLs available to carry forward of approximately $1.4 billion. Section 382 imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s NOLs, certain
recognized built-in losses and other carryovers after an “ownership change” occurs. Section 382 rules governing when a change in ownership occurs are complex and subject to interpretation; however, an ownership change generally occurs
when there has been a cumulative change in the stock ownership of a corporation by certain “5% shareholders” of more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable
income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOLs. In general, the annual limitation is determined by multiplying the value of the corporation’s stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain adjustments) by the
applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Any unused portion of the annual limitation is available for use in future years until such NOLs are scheduled to expire (in general, NOLs may be carried forward 20 years). In addition, the limitation may, under
certain circumstances, be increased or decreased by built-in gains or losses, respectively, which may be present with respect to assets held at the time of the ownership change that are recognized in the five-year period (one-year for loans) after
the ownership change. The use of NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected unless a corporation experienced an additional ownership change in a future period. 
We believe the tax ownership change will extend the period of time it will take to fully utilize our pre-ownership change NOLs, but will
not limit the total amount of pre-ownership change NOLs we can utilize. Our updated estimate is that we will be subject to an overall annual limitation on the use of our pre-ownership change NOLs of approximately $194 million. The overall
pre-ownership change NOLs, which were approximately $1.4 billion, have a statutory carry forward period of 20 years (the majority of which expire in 16 years). As a result, we believe we will be able to fully utilize these NOLs in future periods.
 Our ability to utilize the pre-ownership change NOLs is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient taxable income over
the duration of the carry forward periods and will not be impacted by our ability or inability to generate taxable income in an individual year.  2010 Compared to 2009  We incurred a net loss of $28.5
million, or $(0.13) per diluted share, on total revenue of $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Commissions, fees and service charges, principal transactions and other revenue decreased 17% to $723.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to 2009, which was driven by a decrease in commissions.  Provision for loan losses declined
48% to $779.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009, driven by improving credit trends and loan portfolio run-off. Total operating expense decreased 8% to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared
to 2009. This decrease was driven primarily by decreases in majority of the operating expense categories, offset by a planned increase in advertising and market development expense. 
  41 


Table of Contents
The following sections describe in detail the changes in key operating factors and other
changes and events that affected net revenue, provision for loan losses, operating expense, other income (expense) and income tax expense (benefit).  Revenue  The components of revenue and the resulting variances are
as follows (dollars in millions):   




















 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
        2010        

 
 
2009
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Net operating interest income
  
$
1,226.3
 
 
$
1,260.6
 
 
$
(34.3
) 
 
 
(3
)% 

 Commissions
  
 
431.0
 
 
 
548.0
 
 
 
(117.0
) 
 
 
(21
)% 

 Fees and service charges
  
 
142.4
 
 
 
192.5
 
 
 
(50.1
) 
 
 
(26
)% 

 Principal transactions
  
 
103.4
 
 
 
88.1
 
 
 
15.3
 
 
 
17
% 

 Gains on loans and securities, net
  
 
166.2
 
 
 
169.1
 
 
 
(2.9
) 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Net impairment
  
 
(37.7
) 
 
 
(89.1
) 
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  

 Other revenues
  
 
46.3
 
 
 
47.8
 
 
 
(1.5
) 
 
 
(3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total non-interest income
  
 
851.6
 
 
 
956.4
 
 
 
(104.8
) 
 
 
(11
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total net revenue
  
$
2,077.9
 
 
$
2,217.0
 
 
$
(139.1
) 
 
 
(6
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 





  



 



 



 



  


*
Percentage not meaningful.  Net Operating
Interest Income  Net operating interest income decreased 3% to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010
compared to 2009. The slight decrease in net operating interest income was due primarily to a decrease in our average interest earning assets of $3.4 billion during the year ended December 31, 2010, which was offset by an increase in our net
operating interest spread during the same period.  Average enterprise interest-earning assets decreased 8% to $41.1 billion
for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. This decrease was primarily a result of the decrease in our average loans portfolio, average available-for-sale mortgage-backed securities and average cash and equivalents, partially offset
by an increase in average margin receivables, average available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities.  Average enterprise
interest-bearing liabilities decreased 8% to $38.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease in average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities was primarily due to decreases in average complete savings
deposits and average certificates of deposit offset by an increase in average sweep deposits.  Enterprise net interest spread
increased by 19 basis points to 2.91% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was largely driven by a decrease in the yields paid on our deposits and lower wholesale borrowing costs, partially offset by a decrease
in higher yielding enterprise interest-earning assets.  Commissions 
Commissions decreased 21% to $431.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. Our DART volume decreased 16% to
150,532 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared 2009. Option-related DARTs as a percentage of our total DARTs represented 17% of trading volume for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 13% in 2009. Exchange-traded
funds-related DARTs as a percentage of total DARTs represented 10% of trading volume for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 14% in 2009. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Average commission per trade decreased 1% to $11.21 for the year ended December 31,
2010 compared to 2009. The slight decrease in the average commission per trade was due primarily to the elimination of the $12.99 commission tier and the per share commission applied to market trades larger than 2,000 shares, which became effective
in the second quarter of 2010, partially offset by an improvement in the product and customer mix when compared to 2009.  Fees and Service
Charges  Fees and service charges decreased 26% to $142.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to
2009. The decrease was primarily due to the elimination of all account activity fees, which became effective in the second quarter of 2010, and lower order flow revenue.  Principal Transactions  Principal transactions increased 17% to $103.4
million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in principal transactions was driven by an increase in the volume of orders from our third party customers which was partially offset by a decrease in our average
revenue earned per share traded when compared to 2009.  Gains on Loans and Securities, Net 
Gains on loans and securities, net were $166.2 million and $169.1 million for years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
as shown in the following table (dollars in millions):   




















 
  
 
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Gains (losses) on loans, net
  
$
6.3
 
 
$
(12.5
) 
 
$
18.8
 
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gains on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
160.7
 
 
 
173.2
 
 
 
(12.5
) 
 
 
(7
)% 

 Gains on trading securities, net
  
 
0.2
 
 
 
7.8
 
 
 
(7.6
) 
 
 
(98
)% 

 Hedge ineffectiveness
  
 
(1.0
) 
 
 
0.6
 
 
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gains on securities, net
  
 
159.9
 
 
 
181.6
 
 
 
(21.7
) 
 
 
(12
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Gains on loans and securities, net
  
$
166.2
 
 
$
169.1
 
 
$
(2.9
) 
 
 
(2
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  


*
Percentage not meaningful.  Net Impairment
 We recognized $37.7 million and $89.1 million of net impairment during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, on certain securities in our non-agency CMO portfolio due to continued deterioration in the expected credit performance of the underlying loans in the securities. The gross OTTI and the noncredit portion of OTTI, which was or had been
previously recorded through other comprehensive income (loss), are shown in the table below (dollars in millions):   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”)
  
$
(41.5
) 
 
$
(232.1
) 

 Less: noncredit portion of OTTI recognized into other comprehensive income (loss) (before tax)
  
 
3.8
 
 
 
143.0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net impairment
  
$
(37.7
) 
 
$
(89.1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  43 


Table of Contents
Other Revenues  Other revenues decreased 3% to $46.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was due to a decline in the income from the cash surrender value of our bank-owned
life insurance, partially offset by the gain on the sale of approximately $1 billion in savings accounts to Discover Financial Services in the first quarter of 2010.  Provision for Loan Losses  Provision for loan losses decreased 48%
to $779.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared 2009. The decrease in the provision for loan losses was driven by lower levels of delinquent loans in our one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios. 
Operating Expense 
The components of operating expense and the resulting variances are as follows (dollars in millions): 
 




















 
  
 
 
  
Variance
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
  
2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
     2010     
 
  
     2009     
 
  
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Compensation and benefits
  
$
325.0
 
  
$
366.2
 
  
$
(41.2
) 
 
 
(11
)% 

 Clearing and servicing
  
 
147.5
 
  
 
170.7
 
  
 
(23.2
) 
 
 
(14
)% 

 Advertising and market development
  
 
132.2
 
  
 
114.4
 
  
 
17.8
 
 
 
16
% 

 FDIC insurance premiums
  
 
77.7
 
  
 
94.3
 
  
 
(16.6
) 
 
 
(18
)% 

 Professional services
  
 
81.2
  
  
 
78.7
  
  
 
2.5
  
 
 
3
% 

 Occupancy and equipment
  
 
70.9
 
  
 
78.4
 
  
 
(7.5
) 
 
 
(10
)% 

 Communications
  
 
73.3
  
  
 
84.4
  
  
 
(11.1
) 
 
 
(13
)% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
87.9
 
  
 
83.3
 
  
 
4.6
 
 
 
6
% 

 Amortization of other intangibles
  
 
28.5
 
  
 
29.7
 
  
 
(1.2
) 
 
 
(4
)% 

 Facility restructuring and other exit activities
  
 
14.4
 
  
 
20.7
 
  
 
(6.3
) 
 
 
*
  

 Other operating expenses
  
 
104.0
 
  
 
122.5
 
  
 
(18.5
) 
 
 
(15
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total operating expense
  
$
1,142.6
 
  
$
1,243.3
 
  
$
(100.7
) 
 
 
(8
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



  


*
Percentage not meaningful.  Compensation and
Benefits  Compensation and benefits decreased 11% to $325.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to
2009. This decrease resulted from lower incentive compensation expense and lower salary expense due to a reduction in our employee base compared to 2009.  Clearing and Servicing  Clearing and servicing expense decreased 14% to
$147.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. This decrease resulted primarily from lower trading volumes and lower loan balances compared to 2009.  Advertising and Market Development  Advertising and market development
expense increased 16% to $132.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. This fluctuation was due largely to a planned increase in advertising expense to attract new accounts and customer assets during the year ended
December 31, 2010.  FDIC Insurance Premiums  FDIC insurance premiums decreased 18% to $77.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was due primarily to an industry wide special assessment that resulted in an
additional 
  44 


Table of Contents

$21.6 million of expense in the second quarter of 2009. There were no similar assessments made during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
Other Operating Expenses 
Other operating expenses decreased 15% to $104.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was
driven primarily by a decline in bad debt expense, real-estate owned and legal reserves compared to 2009.  Other Income (Expense)
 Other income (expense) was an expense of $159.0 million and $1.3 billion for the years ended December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively, as shown in the following table (dollars in millions):   




















 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
2010 vs. 2009
 

 
  
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 
 
Amount
 
  
Variance
 

 Corporate interest income
  
$
6.2
 
 
$
0.9
 
 
$
5.3
 
  
 
620
% 

 Corporate interest expense
  
 
(167.1
) 
 
 
(282.7
) 
 
 
115.6
 
  
 
(41
)% 

 Gains (losses) on sales of investments, net
  
 
2.7
 
 
 
(1.7
) 
 
 
4.4
 
  
 
*
  

 Losses on early extinguishment of debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,018.9
) 
 
 
1,018.9
 
  
 
*
  

 Equity in loss of investments and venture funds
  
 
(0.8
) 
 
 
(8.6
) 
 
 
7.8
 
  
 
(91
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 Total other income (expense)
  
$
(159.0
) 
 
$
(1,311.0
) 
 
$
1,152.0
 
  
 
(88
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  



  


*
Percentage not meaningful. 
Total other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily consisted of corporate interest expense resulting from
our interest-bearing corporate debt. Corporate interest expense decreased 41% to $167.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. This was due to the reduction in interest-bearing debt in connection with our Debt Exchange
in 2009. The losses on early extinguishment of debt of $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 were related primarily to the Debt Exchange. The loss on the Debt Exchange resulted from de-recognition of the debt that was exchanged and
the corresponding recognition of the newly-issued non-interest-bearing convertible debentures at fair value. Corporate interest income increased to $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared to 2009 due to a benefit of $6.0
million in connection with a legal settlement.  Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 
Income tax expense was $25.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a benefit of $537.7 million in 2009. Our
effective tax rate was 806.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to (29.3)% in 2009. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was higher than in 2009 for two reasons: 1) our pre-tax loss included items not
deductible for tax purposes, predominantly about one-third of the interest expense on the 2017 Notes; and 2) our reported pre-tax loss is relatively close to breakeven for the year ended December 31, 2010. As a result, our income subject to
taxation was higher, resulting in an unusually high effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Valuation Allowance
 During the year ended December 31, 2010, we did not maintain a valuation allowance against federal deferred tax
assets as we believed that it was more likely than not that all of these assets will be realized. Our evaluation focused on identifying significant, objective evidence that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future. Our
analysis of the need for a valuation allowance recognized that we were in a cumulative book loss position as of the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, which is considered significant and objective evidence that we may not be able to
realize some portion of our deferred tax assets in the future. However, we believed we were able to rely on our forecasts of future taxable income and overcome the uncertainty created by the cumulative loss position. 
  45 


Table of Contents
SEGMENT RESULTS REVIEW 
We report operating results in two segments: 1) trading and investing; and 2) balance sheet management. Trading and investing includes
retail brokerage products and services; investor-focused banking products; market making; and corporate services. Balance sheet management includes the management of asset allocation and credit, liquidity and interest rate risk; loans previously
originated or purchased from third parties; and customer cash and deposits. Costs associated with certain functions that are centrally-managed are separately reported in a corporate/other category. For more information on our segments, see Note
22—Segment Information in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data beginning on page 161.  Trading and Investing
 The following table summarizes trading and investing financial information and key metrics as of and for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions, except for key metrics):   
























  
  
 
 
  
Variance
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
  
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
Amount
 
 
%
 


  



  



  



  



 




 Net operating interest income 
  
$
746.1
 
  
$
763.0
 
  
$
699.6
 
  
$
(16.9
) 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Commissions 
  
 
436.2
 
  
 
431.0
 
  
 
548.0
 
  
 
5.2
 
 
 
1
% 

 Fees and service charges 
  
 
128.0
 
  
 
139.1
 
  
 
185.6
 
  
 
(11.1
) 
 
 
(8
)% 

 Principal transactions 
  
 
105.4
 
  
 
103.4
 
  
 
88.1
 
  
 
2.0
 
 
 
2
% 

 Other revenues 
  
 
31.2
 
  
 
37.9
 
  
 
35.5
 
  
 
(6.7
) 
 
 
(18
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total net revenue 
  
 
1,446.9
 
  
 
1,474.4
 
  
 
1,556.8
 
  
 
(27.5
) 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Total operating expense 
  
 
825.9
 
  
 
752.6
 
  
 
796.6
 
  
 
73.3
 
 
 
10
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Trading and investing income 
  
$
621.0
 
  
$
721.8
 
  
$
760.2
 
  
$
(100.8
) 
 
 
(14
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 





  



  



  



  



 




 Key Metrics: 
  



  



  



  



 




 DARTs 
  
 
157,475
 
  
 
150,532
 
  
 
179,183
 
  
 
6,943
 
 
 
5
% 

 Average commission per trade 
  
$
11.01
 
  
$
11.21
 
  
$
11.33
 
  
$
(0.20
) 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Margin receivables (dollars in billions) 
  
$
4.8
 
  
$
5.1
 
  
$
3.7
 
  
$
(0.3
) 
 
 
(6
)% 

 End of period brokerage accounts 
  
 
2,783,012
 
  
 
2,684,311
 
  
 
2,630,079
 
  
 
98,701
 
 
 
4
% 

 Net new brokerage accounts 
  
 
98,701
 
  
 
54,232
 
  
 
114,273
 
  
 
44,469
 
 
 
*
  

 Customer assets (dollars in billions) 
  
$
172.4
 
  
$
176.2
 
  
$
150.5
 
  
$
(3.8
) 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Net new brokerage assets (dollars in billions) 
  
$
9.7
 
  
$
8.1
 
  
$
7.2
 
  
$
1.6
 
 
 
*
  

 Brokerage related cash (dollars in billions) 
  
$
27.7
 
  
$
24.5
 
  
$
20.4
 
  
$
3.2
 
 
 
13
% 
  


*
Percentage not meaningful.  The
trading and investing segment generates revenue from brokerage and banking relationships with investors and from market making and corporate services activities. This segment generates five main sources of revenue: net operating interest income;
commissions; fees and service charges; principal transactions; and other revenues. Other revenues include results from providing software and services for managing equity compensation plans from corporate customers, as we ultimately service retail
investors through these corporate relationships.  2011 Compared to 2010 
Trading and investing income decreased 14% to $621.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. We continued to
generate net new brokerage accounts, ending the year with 2.8 million accounts. Our brokerage related cash, which is one of our most profitable sources of funding, increased by $3.2 billion when compared to 2010. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Trading and investing commissions increased 1% to $436.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. This increase in commissions was primarily the result of an increase in DARTs of 5% to 157,475 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. 
Trading and investing fees and service charges decreased 8% to $128.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010.
This decrease for the year ended December 31, 2011 was driven primarily by the elimination of all account activity fees, which took effect in the second quarter of 2010.  Trading and investing principal transactions increased 2% to $105.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in principal transactions revenue was driven by a
favorable mix of trading volume and revenue earned per share, as well as a continued focus on expanding our external customer base, when compared to 2010.  Trading and investing operating expense increased 10% to $825.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2011 was driven
primarily by a reserve of $48 million related to an offer to purchase auction rate securities held by customers of E*TRADE Securities LLC, as well as former customers who purchased auction rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC. This reserve
relates primarily to our estimate of the securities’ current fair value relative to their par value and includes penalties and other estimated settlement costs. In addition, compensation and benefits expense increased 8% to $245.8 million
as a result of increasing our financial consultants by 42%.  As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately
2.8 million brokerage accounts, 1.1 million stock plan accounts and 0.5 million banking accounts. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our brokerage products contributed 69% and 67%, respectively, and our banking
products contributed 31% and 33%, respectively, of total trading and investing net revenue.  2010 Compared to
2009  Trading and investing segment income decreased 5% to $721.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. We generated new brokerage accounts, ending the year with 2.7 million accounts. Our brokerage related cash increased by $4.1 billion when compared to 2009. 
Trading and investing net operating interest income increased 9% to $763.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to
2009. This increase was driven primarily by a decrease in yields paid on customer deposits and an increase in the average balance of margin receivables during the period.  Trading and investing commissions decreased 21% to $431.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease in commissions was primarily the result of a decrease in DARTs of
16% to 150,532 and a decrease in the average commission per trade of 1% to $11.21 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. The slight decrease in the average commission per trade was due primarily to the elimination of the $12.99
commission tier and the per share commission applied to market trades larger than 2,000 shares, which became effective in the second quarter of 2010, partially offset by an improvement in the product and customer mix when compared to the same period
in 2009.  Trading and investing fees and service charges decreased 25% to $139.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2010 compared to 2009. The decreases were primarily due to lower order flow revenue and the elimination of all account activity fees, which became effective in the second quarter of 2010. 
Trading and investing principal transactions increased 17% to $103.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009.
The increase in principal transactions was driven by an increase in the volume of equity shares that were traded, which was partially offset by a decrease in our average revenue earned per share traded for the year ended December 31, 2010.

  47 


Table of Contents
Trading and investing operating expense decreased 6% to $752.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease related primarily to decreases in compensation and benefits, clearing and servicing, and communications expenses, which were partially offset by increases in advertising and market development
expense and professional services.  As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 2.7 million brokerage accounts,
1.0 million stock plan accounts and 0.5 million banking accounts. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, our brokerage products contributed 67% and 77%, respectively, and our banking products, which include sweep products,
contributed 33% and 23%, respectively, of total trading and investing net revenue.  Balance Sheet Management 
The following table summarizes balance sheet management financial information and key metrics as of and for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions):   
























 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Net operating interest income
  
$
473.9
 
 
$
463.3
 
 
$
560.9
 
 
$
10.6
 
 
 
2
% 

 Fees and service charges
  
 
2.4
 
 
 
3.2
 
 
 
6.9
 
 
 
(0.8
) 
 
 
(24
)% 

 Gains on loans and securities, net
  
 
121.2
 
 
 
166.3
 
 
 
169.2
 
 
 
(45.1
) 
 
 
(27
)% 

 Net impairment
  
 
(14.9
) 
 
 
(37.7
) 
 
 
(89.1
) 
 
 
22.8
 
 
 
(60
)% 

 Other revenues
  
 
7.2
 
 
 
8.4
 
 
 
12.3
 
 
 
(1.2
) 
 
 
(14
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total net revenue
  
 
589.8
 
 
 
603.5
 
 
 
660.2
 
 
 
(13.7
) 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
440.6
 
 
 
779.4
 
 
 
1,498.1
 
 
 
(338.8
) 
 
 
(43
)% 

 Total operating expense
  
 
238.4
 
 
 
215.5
 
 
 
244.1
 
 
 
22.9
 
 
 
11
% 

 Losses from early extinguishment of debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(50.6
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Balance sheet management loss
  
$
(89.2
) 
 
$
(391.4
) 
 
$
(1,132.6
) 
 
$
302.2
 
 
 
(77
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Key Metrics:
  



 



 



 



 




 Special mention loan delinquencies
  
$
467.1
 
 
$
589.4
 
 
$
804.5
 
 
$
(122.3
) 
 
 
(21
)% 

 Allowance for loan losses
  
$
822.8
 
 
$
1,031.2
 
 
$
1,182.7
 
 
$
(208.4
) 
 
 
(20
)% 

 Allowance for loan losses as a % of gross loans receivable
  
 
6.25
% 
 
 
6.38
% 
 
 
5.81
% 
 
 
*
  
 
 
(0.13
)% 


  



 



 



 



 



  


*
Percentage not meaningful.  The
balance sheet management segment generates revenue from managing loans previously originated or purchased from third parties as well as customer cash and deposit relationships to generate additional net operating interest income. 
2011 Compared to 2010  The balance sheet management segment reported a loss of $89.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The losses in the segment are due primarily to the provision for loan losses of $440.6
million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  Gains on loans and securities, net were $121.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to $166.3 million in 2010. The decrease in gains on loans and securities, net was primarily due to more trading volatility in the markets in 2010 when compared to 2011. 
  48 


Table of Contents
We recognized $14.9 million of net impairment during the year ended December 31, 2011
on certain securities in the non-agency CMO portfolio due to continued deterioration in the expected credit performance of the underlying loans in those specific securities. The net impairment included gross OTTI of $9.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011. The amount that had been previously recorded through other comprehensive income and was reclassified into earnings during the year ended December 31, 2011 was $5.7 million. 
Provision for loan losses decreased 43% to $440.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease in
provision for loan losses was driven by improving credit trends and loan portfolio run-off, as evidenced by the lower levels of delinquent loans in the one- to four- family and home equity loan portfolios. 
Total balance sheet management operating expense increased 11% to $238.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to
2010. The increase in operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was due primarily to increased FDIC insurance premiums as a result of an industry wide change in the FDIC insurance premium assessment calculation, effective in the
second quarter of 2011.  2010 Compared to 2009  The balance sheet management segment reported a loss of $391.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The losses in this segment were due primarily to the provision for loan losses of $779.4
million for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Gains on loans and securities, net were gains of $166.3 million and $169.2
million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The gains on loans and securities, net for the year ended December 31, 2010 were due primarily to gains on the sale of certain agency mortgage-backed securities and
agency debentures.  We recognized $37.7 million and $89.1 million of net impairment during the years ended December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively, on certain securities in our non-agency CMO portfolio due to continued deterioration in the expected credit performance of the underlying loans in the securities. The net impairment included gross OTTI of $41.5 million
and $232.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Of the gross OTTI for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, $3.8 million and $143.0 million related to the noncredit portion of OTTI, which was recorded
through other comprehensive income (loss).  Provision for loan losses decreased 48% to $779.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease in the provision for loan losses was driven by lower levels of delinquent loans in our one- to four- family and home equity loan portfolios. 
Total balance sheet management operating expense decreased 12% to $215.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to
2009. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2010 was due to decreases in clearing and servicing expense, FDIC insurance premiums and other expense. The decrease in the FDIC insurance premiums for the year ended December 31, 2010 was
a result of an industry wide assessment that resulted in an additional $21.6 million of expense in the second quarter of 2009. There were no similar assessments made during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Corporate/Other  The following table summarizes corporate/other financial information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in millions): 
 
























 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Total net revenue
  
$
(0.1
) 
 
$
(0.0
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(0.1
) 
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Compensation and benefits
  
 
70.3
 
 
 
80.2
 
 
 
93.7
 
 
 
(9.9
) 
 
 
(12
)% 

 Professional services
  
 
35.4
 
 
 
28.9
 
 
 
42.7
 
 
 
6.5
 
 
 
23
% 

 Occupancy and equipment
  
 
2.7
 
 
 
2.6
 
 
 
3.4
 
 
 
0.1
 
 
 
4
% 

 Communications
  
 
1.5
 
 
 
1.7
 
 
 
1.9
 
 
 
(0.2
) 
 
 
(11
)% 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
18.4
 
 
 
21.0
 
 
 
19.1
 
 
 
(2.6
) 
 
 
(12
)% 

 Facility restructuring and
  



 



 



 



 




 other exit activities
  
 
7.7
 
 
 
14.3
 
 
 
20.7
 
 
 
(6.6
) 
 
 
*
  

 Other operating expenses
  
 
34.5
 
 
 
25.8
 
 
 
21.2
 
 
 
8.7
 
 
 
34
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total operating expense
  
 
170.5
 
 
 
174.5
 
 
 
202.7
 
 
 
(4.0
) 
 
 
(2
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Operating loss
  
 
(170.6
) 
 
 
(174.5
) 
 
 
(202.7
) 
 
 
3.9
 
 
 
(2
)% 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
(175.8
) 
 
 
(159.0
) 
 
 
(1,260.4
) 
 
 
(16.8
) 
 
 
11
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Corporate/other loss
  
$
(346.4
) 
 
$
(333.5
) 
 
$
(1,463.1
) 
 
$
(12.9
) 
 
 
4
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  


*
Percentage not meaningful.  The
corporate/other category includes costs that are centrally-managed, technology related costs incurred to support centrally-managed functions, restructuring and other exit activities, corporate debt and corporate investments. 
2011 Compared to 2010  The corporate/other loss before income taxes was $346.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $333.5 million in 2010. Compensation and benefits decreased 12% to $70.3 million due
primarily to a decrease in incentive compensation during the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in professional services was due primarily to a $6.0 million credit in connection with a legal settlement in the third
quarter of 2010, which decreased professional services for the year ended December 31, 2010. Other operating expenses increased 34% to $34.5 million primarily due to the recording of a net reserve of $10.8 million related a memorandum of
understanding that was entered into to settle the Freudenberg Action during the year ended December 31, 2011.  Total
other income (expense) consisted primarily of $177.8 million in corporate interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 on interest-bearing corporate debt. In addition to the stated interest on corporate debt, the corporate interest
expense line item included the benefit of discontinued fair value hedges on corporate debt, which decreased $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. Offsetting interest expense for the year ended December 31,
2011 was a $3.1 million gain on early extinguishment of debt related to the call of the 2013 Notes in the second quarter of 2011. 
2010 Compared to 2009  The corporate/other loss was $333.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $1.5 billion for the same period in 2009. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2010 was due to
total operating expenses of $174.5 million and other expense of $159.0 million. Total other income (expense) primarily 
  50 


Table of Contents

consisted of corporate interest expense of $167.1 million resulting from our interest-bearing corporate debt. Corporate interest expense decreased 41% to $167.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 due to the reduction in interest-bearing debt in connection with our Debt Exchange in the third quarter of 2009. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 was due primarily to the $968.3 million pre-tax non-cash loss
on extinguishment of debt related to the Debt Exchange, which is reported in the total other income (expense) line item.  
BALANCE SHEET OVERVIEW  The following table sets forth the significant components of our consolidated balance sheet
(dollars in millions):   




















  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Variance
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Assets: 
  



  



  



 




 Cash and equivalents 
  
$
2,099.8
 
  
$
2,374.3
 
  
$
(274.5
) 
 
 
(12
)% 

 Cash and investments required to be segregated under federal or other regulations 
  
 
1,275.6
 
  
 
609.5
 
  
 
666.1
 
 
 
109
% 

 Securities(1)
  
 
21,785.4
 
  
 
17,330.6
 
  
 
4,454.8
 
 
 
26
% 

 Margin receivables 
  
 
4,826.3
 
  
 
5,120.6
 
  
 
(294.3
) 
 
 
(6
)% 

 Loans receivable, net 
  
 
12,332.8
 
  
 
15,121.9
 
  
 
(2,789.1
) 
 
 
(18
)% 

 Investment in FHLB stock 
  
 
140.2
 
  
 
164.4
 
  
 
(24.2
) 
 
 
(15
)% 


Other(2)

  
 
5,480.4
 
  
 
5,651.7
 
  
 
(171.3
) 
 
 
(3
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total assets 
  
$
47,940.5
 
  
$
46,373.0
 
  
$
1,567.5
 
 
 
3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity: 
  



  



  



 




 Deposits 
  
$
26,460.0
 
  
$
25,240.3
 
  
$
1,219.7
 
 
 
5
% 

 Wholesale borrowings(3)
  
 
7,752.4
 
  
 
8,620.0
 
  
 
(867.6
) 
 
 
(10
)% 

 Customer payables 
  
 
5,590.9
 
  
 
5,020.1
 
  
 
570.8
 
 
 
11
% 

 Corporate debt 
  
 
1,493.5
 
  
 
2,145.9
 
  
 
(652.4
) 
 
 
(30
)% 

 Other liabilities 
  
 
1,715.7
 
  
 
1,294.3
 
  
 
421.4
 
 
 
33
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total liabilities 
  
 
43,012.5
 
  
 
42,320.6
 
  
 
691.9
 
 
 
2
% 

 Shareholders’ equity 
  
 
4,928.0
 
  
 
4,052.4
 
  
 
875.6
 
 
 
22
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 
  
$
47,940.5
 
  
$
46,373.0
 
  
$
1,567.5
 
 
 
3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



  


(1) 
 Includes balance sheet line items trading, available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities. 


(2) 
 Includes balance sheet line items property and equipment, net, goodwill, other intangibles, net and other assets. 


(3) 
 Includes balance sheet line items securities sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB advances and other borrowings. 
Cash and Investments Required to be Segregated under Federal or Other Regulations 
The level of cash and investments required to be segregated under federal or other regulations, or segregated cash and investments, is
driven largely by the amount of customer payables we hold as a liability in excess of the amount of margin receivables we hold as an asset. This difference represents excess customer cash that we are required by our regulators to segregate in a cash
account for the exclusive benefit of our brokerage customers. Segregated cash and investments increased by $0.7 billion during the year ended December 31, 2011. This increase was driven primarily by an increase in customer payables of $0.6
billion during the year ended December 31, 2011. 
  51 


Table of Contents
Securities  Trading, available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities are summarized as follows (dollars in millions):   




















 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Variance
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Trading securities
  
$
54.4
 
  
$
62.2
 
  
$
(7.8
) 
 
 
(13
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Available-for-sale securities:
  



  



  



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
  
$
13,965.7
 
  
$
12,898.1
 
  
$
1,067.6
 
 
 
8
% 

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
341.6
 
  
 
395.4
 
  
 
(53.8
) 
 
 
(14
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
14,307.3
 
  
 
13,293.5
 
  
 
1,013.8
 
 
 
8
% 

 Investment securities
  
 
1,344.2
 
  
 
1,512.2
 
  
 
(168.0
) 
 
 
(11
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
15,651.5
 
  
$
14,805.7
 
  
$
845.8
 
 
 
6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Held-to-maturity securities:
  



  



  



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
  
$
5,296.5
 
  
$
1,928.6
 
  
$
3,367.9
 
 
 
175
% 

 Investment securities
  
 
783.0
 
  
 
534.1
 
  
 
248.9
 
 
 
47
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total held-to-maturity securities
  
$
6,079.5
 
  
$
2,462.7
 
  
$
3,616.8
 
 
 
147
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total securities
  
$
21,785.4
 
  
$
17,330.6
 
  
$
4,454.8
 
 
 
26
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 Securities represented 45% and 37% of total assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The
increase in available-for-sale securities was due primarily to an increase of $1.1 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs, partially offset by the sale or call of agency debentures. 
Loans Receivable, Net  Loans receivable, net are summarized as follows (dollars in millions):   




















 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variance
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 One- to four-family
  
$
6,615.8
 
 
$
8,170.3
 
 
$
(1,554.5
) 
 
 
(19
)% 

 Home equity
  
 
5,328.7
 
 
 
6,410.3
 
 
 
(1,081.6
) 
 
 
(17
)% 

 Consumer and other
  
 
1,113.2
 
 
 
1,443.4
 
 
 
(330.2
) 
 
 
(23
)% 

 Unamortized premiums, net
  
 
97.9
 
 
 
129.1
 
 
 
(31.2
) 
 
 
(24
)% 

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
(822.8
) 
 
 
(1,031.2
) 
 
 
208.4
 
 
 
(20
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total loans receivable, net
  
$
12,332.8
 
 
$
15,121.9
 
 
$
(2,789.1
) 
 
 
(18
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Loans receivable, net decreased 18% to $12.3 billion at December 31, 2011 from $15.1 billion at
December 31, 2010. This decline was due primarily to our strategy of reducing balance sheet risk by allowing the loan portfolio to pay down, which we plan to do for the foreseeable future. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Deposits  Deposits are summarized as follows (dollars in millions):   




















 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variance
 

 
 
December 31,
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Sweep deposits
 
$
18,619.0
 
 
$
16,139.6
 
 
$
2,479.4
 
 
 
15
% 

 Complete savings deposits
 
 
5,720.8
 
 
 
6,683.6
 
 
 
(962.8
) 
 
 
(14
)% 

 Other money market and savings deposits
 
 
1,033.2
 
 
 
1,092.9
 
 
 
(59.7
) 
 
 
(5
)% 

 Checking deposits
 
 
863.3
 
 
 
825.6
 
 
 
37.7
 
 
 
5
% 

 Certificates of deposit
 
 
190.5
 
 
 
407.1
 
 
 
(216.6
) 
 
 
(53
)% 

 Brokered certificates of deposit
 
 
33.2
 
 
 
91.5
 
 
 
(58.3
) 
 
 
(64
)% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total deposits
 
$
26,460.0
 
 
$
25,240.3
 
 
$
1,219.7
 
 
 
5
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Deposits represented 62% and 60% of total liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
At December 31, 2011, 93% of our customer deposits were covered by FDIC insurance. Deposits generally provide the benefit of lower interest costs compared with wholesale funding alternatives. Deposits increased 5% to $26.5 billion at
December 31, 2011 from $25.2 billion at December 31, 2010. The increase was due primarily to an increase of $2.5 billion in sweep deposits, partially offset by a decrease of $1.0 billion in complete savings deposits. 
The deposits balance is a component of the total customer cash and deposits balance reported as a customer activity metric of $35.5
billion and $33.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The total customer cash and deposits balance is summarized as follows (dollars in millions): 
 




















 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variance
 

 
 
December 31,
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Deposits
 
$
26,460.0
 
 
$
25,240.3
 
 
$
1,219.7
 
 
 
5
% 

 Less: brokered certificates of deposit
 
 
(33.2
) 
 
 
(91.5
) 
 
 
58.3
 
 
 
(64
)% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Retail deposits
 
 
26,426.8
 
 
 
25,148.8
 
 
 
1,278.0
 
 
 
5
% 

 Customer payables
 
 
5,590.9
 
 
 
5,020.1
 
 
 
570.8
 
 
 
11
% 

 Customer cash balances held by third parties and other
 
 
3,520.1
 
 
 
3,363.8
 
 
 
156.3
 
 
 
5
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total customer cash and deposits
 
$
35,537.8
 
 
$
33,532.7
 
 
$
2,005.1
 
 
 
6
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Wholesale Borrowings  Wholesale borrowings, which consist of securities sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB advances and other borrowings, are summarized as follows (dollars in millions): 
 




















 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Variance
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
2011 vs. 2010
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Amount
 
 
%
 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
$
5,015.5
 
  
$
5,888.3
 
  
$
(872.8
) 
 
 
(15
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 FHLB advances
  
$
2,302.7
 
  
$
2,284.1
 
  
$
18.6
 
 
 
1
% 

 Subordinated debentures
  
 
427.6
 
  
 
427.5
 
  
 
0.1
 
 
 
0
% 

 Other
  
 
6.6
 
  
 
20.1
 
  
 
(13.5
) 
 
 
(67
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total FHLB advances and other borrowings
  
$
2,736.9
 
  
$
2,731.7
 
  
$
5.2
 
 
 
0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total wholesale borrowings
  
$
7,752.4
 
  
$
8,620.0
 
  
$
(867.6
) 
 
 
(10
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 Wholesale borrowings represented 18% and 20% of total liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB advances are the primary wholesale funding sources of the Bank. As a result, we expect these balances to fluctuate over time as deposits and
interest-
  53 


Table of Contents

earning assets fluctuate. The decrease in securities sold under agreements to repurchase of $0.9 billion during the year ended December 31, 2011 was due to a planned decrease in the
forecasted issuance of debt. We anticipate further decreases in securities sold under agreements to repurchase of approximately $300 million during the second quarter of 2012 and $150 million during the fourth quarter of 2012. 
Corporate Debt 
Corporate debt by type is shown as follows (dollars in millions): 
 




















 
 
Face Value
 
 
Discount
 
 
Fair Value HedgeAdjustment
 
 
Net
 

 December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 




 Interest-bearing notes:
 



 



 



 




 7  7/8% Notes, due 2015
 
$
243.2
 
 
$
(1.2
) 
 
$
7.4
 
 
$
249.4
 

 6  3/4% Notes, due 2016
 
 
435.0
 
 
 
(7.4
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
427.6
 

 12
 1/2% Springing lien notes, due
2017
 
 
930.2
 
 
 
(162.9
) 
 
 
6.2
 
 
 
773.5
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing notes
 
 
1,608.4
 
 
 
(171.5
) 
 
 
13.6
 
 
 
1,450.5
 

 Non-interest-bearing debt:
 



 



 



 




 0% Convertible debentures, due 2019
 
 
43.0
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
43.0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate debt
 
$
1,651.4
 
 
$
(171.5
) 
 
$
13.6
 
 
$
1,493.5
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 
 
Face Value
 
 
Discount
 
 
Fair Value HedgeAdjustment
 
 
Net
 

 December 31, 2010
 



 



 



 




 Interest-bearing notes:
 



 



 



 




 8% Notes, due 2011
 
$
3.6
 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
3.6
 

 7  3/8% Notes, due 2013
 
 
414.7
 
 
 
(2.5
) 
 
 
15.1
 
 
 
427.3
 

 7  7/8% Notes, due 2015
 
 
243.2
 
 
 
(1.5
) 
 
 
9.3
 
 
 
251.0
 

 12
 1/2% Springing lien notes, due
2017
 
 
930.2
 
 
 
(177.5
) 
 
 
7.3
 
 
 
760.0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing notes
 
 
1,591.7
 
 
 
(181.5
) 
 
 
31.7
 
 
 
1,441.9
 

 Non-interest-bearing debt:
 



 



 



 




 0% Convertible debentures, due 2019
 
 
704.0
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
704.0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate debt
 
$
2,295.7
 
 
$
(181.5
) 
 
$
31.7
 
 
$
2,145.9
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Corporate debt decreased 30% to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2011 from $2.1 billion at
December 31, 2010. The decline was due to the conversion of approximately $661 million in convertible debentures into 63.9 million shares of common stock during the year ended December 31, 2011. The remaining face value of the
convertible debentures as of December 31, 2011 was $43.0 million.  During the second of quarter of 2011, we issued an
aggregate principal amount of $435 million in 2016 Notes. We used the proceeds from the 2016 Notes to redeem all of the outstanding 2013 Notes, including paying the associated redemption premium, accrued interest and related fees and expenses.

  54 


Table of Contents
Shareholders’ Equity 
The activity in shareholders’ equity during the year ended December 31, 2011 is summarized as follows (dollars in millions):
  
















 
  
Common Stock /Additional Paid-InCapital
 
  
Accumulated Deficit /OtherComprehensive Loss
 
 
Total
 


  



  



 




 Beginning balance, December 31, 2010 
  
$
6,642.9
 
  
$
(2,590.5
) 
 
$
4,052.4
 

 Net income 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
156.7
 
 
 
156.7
 

 Conversions of convertible debentures 
  
 
660.9
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
660.9
 

 Net change from available-for-sale securities 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
199.7
 
 
 
199.7
 

 Net change from cash flow hedging instruments 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(149.4
) 
 
 
(149.4
) 


Other(1)

  
 
5.9
 
  
 
1.8
 
 
 
7.7
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance, December 31, 2011 
  
$
7,309.7
 
  
$
(2,381.7
) 
 
$
4,928.0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Other includes employee share-based compensation accounting and changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss from foreign currency translation.
 Shareholders’ equity increased 22% to $4.9 billion at December 31, 2011 from $4.1 billion at
December 31, 2010. This increase was due primarily to the conversion of $660.9 million in convertible debentures into 63.9 million shares of common stock during the year ended December 31, 2011. 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  We have established liquidity and capital policies to support the successful execution of our business strategies, while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity through the business cycle. These
policies are especially important during periods of stress in the financial markets, which have been ongoing since the fourth quarter of 2007 and could continue for some time.  We believe liquidity is of critical importance to the Company and especially important within E*TRADE Bank. The objective of our policies is to ensure that we can meet our corporate and banking liquidity
needs under both normal operating conditions and under periods of stress in the financial markets. Our corporate liquidity needs are primarily driven by the amount of principal and interest due on our corporate debt as well as any capital needs at
E*TRADE Bank. Our banking liquidity needs are driven primarily by the level and volatility of our customer deposits. Management maintains an extensive set of liquidity sources and monitors certain business trends and market metrics closely in an
effort to ensure we have sufficient liquidity and to avoid dependence on other more expensive sources of funding. Management believes the following sources of liquidity are of critical importance in maintaining ample funding for liquidity needs:
Corporate cash, Bank cash, deposits and unused FHLB borrowing capacity. Management believes that within deposits, sweep deposits are of particular importance as they are the most stable source of liquidity for E*TRADE Bank when compared to non-sweep
deposits. Overall, management believes that these liquidity sources, which we expect to fluctuate in any given period, are more than sufficient to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. 
Capital is generated primarily through our business operations and our capital market activities. The primary business operations of both
the trading and investing and balance sheet management segments are contained within E*TRADE Bank; therefore, we believe a key indicator of the capital generated or used in our business operations is the level of regulatory capital in E*TRADE Bank.
During the year ended December 31, 2011, E*TRADE Bank generated an additional $411 million of risk-based capital and $228 million of Tier I capital in 
  55 


Table of Contents

excess of the level our regulators define as well-capitalized. The continued generation of additional risk-based and Tier I capital is a positive indicator that the regulatory capital in E*TRADE
Bank is sufficient to meet its operating needs.  Consolidated Cash and Equivalents 
The consolidated cash and equivalents balance decreased by $0.3 billion to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011. The
majority of this balance is cash held in regulated subsidiaries, primarily the Bank, outlined as follows (dollars in millions):   
















 
  
December 31,
 
  
Variance
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011 vs. 2010
 

 Corporate cash
  
$
484.4
 
  
$
470.5
 
  
$
13.9
 

 Bank cash
  
 
1,574.1
 
  
 
1,812.1
 
  
 
(238.0
) 

 International brokerage and other cash
  
 
41.3
 
  
 
91.7
 
  
 
(50.4
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total consolidated cash
  
$
2,099.8
 
  
$
2,374.3
 
  
$
(274.5
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Corporate cash is the primary source of liquidity at the parent company. We define corporate cash as cash
held at the parent company as well as cash held in certain subsidiaries that can distribute cash to the parent company without any regulatory approval. We believe corporate cash is a useful measure of the parent company’s liquidity as it is the
primary source of capital above and beyond the capital deployed in our regulated subsidiaries. Corporate cash can fluctuate in any given quarter and is impacted primarily by tax settlements, approval and timing of subsidiary dividends, debt service
costs and other overhead cost sharing arrangements. We target corporate cash to be two times our annual debt service, or approximately $330 million. From the level of corporate cash at December 31, 2011, we expect that it will decline generally
in line with our corporate interest expense. However, the parent company has approximately $0.5 billion in deferred tax assets, which will ultimately become sources of corporate cash as the parent’s subsidiaries reimburse the parent for the use
of its deferred tax assets.  Liquidity Available from Subsidiaries 
Liquidity available to the Company from its subsidiaries is limited by regulatory requirements. In addition, neither E*TRADE Bank nor its
subsidiaries may pay dividends to the parent company without approval from its regulators. Loans by E*TRADE Bank to the parent company and its other non-bank subsidiaries are subject to various quantitative, arm’s length, collateralization and
other requirements.  E*TRADE Bank is subject to capital requirements determined by its regulator. At December 31, 2011
and 2010, E*TRADE Bank had $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, of Tier I capital in excess of the regulatory minimum level required to be considered “well capitalized.” Since late 2009, the Company has requested and received the
approval of its primary regulators to send quarterly dividends from E*TRADE Bank to the parent. The dividend had been equal to profits from the previous quarter of E*TRADE Securities LLC. We believe our former regulator, the OTS, viewed these
dividend requests as distinct from a more comprehensive request to release a portion of E*TRADE Bank’s excess capital. During the third quarter of 2011, the Company transitioned regulators from the OTS to the OCC and the Federal Reserve. We
believe our new regulators would subject all dividend requests to an equal level of scrutiny; therefore, rather than request a dividend from E*TRADE Bank in an amount equal to the profits of E*TRADE Securities LLC in the prior quarter, we believe
the best path for the Company’s shareholders is to work on a comprehensive dividend plan that efficiently distributes capital among our regulated entities and parent company. The Company is in dialogue with the regulators regarding our ability
to implement a comprehensive dividend plan and expects to complete that dialogue by the end of 2012. Following the completion of that dialogue, we expect to have a better understanding of the timing of any future dividends; however, we cannot
predict the likelihood or the timing of regulatory approval for any such dividends.  The Company’s broker-dealer
subsidiaries are subject to capital requirements determined by their respective regulators. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, all of our brokerage subsidiaries met their minimum net capital 
  56 


Table of Contents

requirements. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries had excess net capital of $675.1 million(1) at December 31, 2011, an increase of $25.9 million from $649.2 million at December 31, 2010. While we cannot
assure that we would obtain regulatory approval in the future to withdraw any of this excess net capital, $517.6 million is available for dividend while still maintaining a capital level above regulatory “early warning” guidelines.
 Financial Regulatory Reform Legislation and Basel III Accords 
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, our primary regulator, the OTS, was abolished during July 2011 and its functions and personnel distributed among
the OCC, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve. Although the Dodd-Frank Act maintains the federal thrift charter, it eliminates certain benefits of the charter and imposes new penalties for failure to comply with the qualified thrift lender test. The
Dodd-Frank Act also requires all companies, including savings and loan holding  The implementation of holding company capital
requirements will impact us as the parent company was not previously subject to capital requirements. These requirements are expected to become effective within the next four years. We believe the requirements are an important measure of our capital
strength and we have begun to track these ratios, using the current capital ratios that apply to bank holding companies, as we plan for this future requirement. The Tier I leverage, Tier I risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios are
non-GAAP measures as the holding company is not yet held to these capital requirements and are calculated as follows (dollars in millions):   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Shareholders’ equity 
  
$
4,928.0
 
 
$
4,052.4
 

 Deduct: 
  



 




 Losses in other comprehensive income on available-for-sale debt securities and cash flow hedges, net of tax 
  
 
(389.6
) 
 
 
(439.9
) 

 Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of deferred tax liabilities 
  
 
1,947.5
 
 
 
2,046.4
 

 Add: 
  



 




 Qualifying restricted core capital elements 
  
 
433.0
 
 
 
433.0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal 
  
 
3,803.1
 
 
 
2,878.9
 

 Deduct: 
  



 




 Disallowed servicing assets and deferred tax assets 
  
 
1,331.0
 
 
 
1,351.3
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tier I capital 
  
 
2,472.1
 
 
 
1,527.6
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Add: 
  



 




 Allowable allowance for loan losses 
  
 
277.6
 
 
 
295.6
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total capital 
  
$
2,749.7
 
 
$
1,823.2
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total average assets 
  
$
46,964.2
 
 
$
46,043.4
 

 Deduct: 
  



 




 Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of deferred tax liabilities 
  
 
1,947.5
 
 
 
2,046.4
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal 
  
 
45,016.7
 
 
 
43,997.0
 

 Deduct: 
  



 




 Disallowed servicing assets and deferred tax assets 
  
 
1,331.0
 
 
 
1,351.3
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Average total assets for leverage capital purposes 
  
$
43,685.7
 
 
$
42,645.7
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  



 




 Total risk-weighted assets (1)
  
$
21,668.1
 
 
$
22,915.8
 


  



 




 Tier I leverage ratio (Tier I capital / Average total assets for leverage capital purposes) 
  
 
5.7
% 
 
 
3.6
% 

 Tier I capital / Total risk-weighted assets 
  
 
11.4
% 
 
 
6.7
% 

 Total capital / Total risk-weighted assets 
  
 
12.7
% 
 
 
8.0
% 
  


(1) 
 Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance sheet
items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight associated
with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for determining total risk-weighted assets. 
 


(1) 

 The excess net capital of the broker-dealer subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 included $483.0 million and $145.2 million of excess net capital at
E*TRADE Clearing LLC and E*TRADE Securities LLC, respectively, which are subsidiaries of E*TRADE Bank and are also included in the excess risk-based capital of E*TRADE Bank. companies, that directly or indirectly control an insured depository
institution to serve as a source of strength for the institution. 
  57 


Table of Contents
During the year ended December 31, 2011, $660.9 million in convertible debentures were
converted into 63.9 million shares of common stock, which improved our holding company ratios. The increase to capital as a result of these additional conversions raised our estimated holding company capital ratios to exceed the “well
capitalized” minimums under current bank holding company guidelines. As of December 31, 2011, the parent company Tier I leverage ratio was approximately 5.7% compared to the minimum ratio required to be “well capitalized” of 5%,
the Tier I risk-based capital ratio was approximately 11.4% compared to the minimum ratio required to be “well capitalized” of 6%, and the total risk-based capital ratio was approximately 12.7% compared to the minimum ratio required to be
“well capitalized” of 10%.  Our Tier I common ratio, which is a non-GAAP measure and currently has no mandated
minimum or “well capitalized” standard, was 9.4% as of December 31, 2011. We believe this ratio is an important measure of our capital strength. The Tier I common ratio is defined as the Tier I capital less elements of Tier I capital
that are not in the form of common equity, such as trust preferred securities, divided by total risk-weighted assets. The following table shows the calculation of Tier I common ratio (dollars in millions): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Shareholders’ equity
  
$
4,928.0
 
 
$
4,052.4
 

 Deduct:
  



 




 Losses in other comprehensive income on available-for-sale debt securities and cash flow hedges, net of tax
  
 
(389.6
) 
 
 
(439.9
) 

 Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of deferred tax liabilities
  
 
1,947.5
 
 
 
2,046.4
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
3,370.1
 
 
 
2,445.9
 

 Deduct:
  



 




 Disallowed servicing assets and deferred tax assets
  
 
1,331.0
 
 
 
1,351.3
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tier I common
  
$
2,039.1
 
 
$
1,094.6
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total risk-weighted assets
  
$
21,668.1
 
 
$
22,915.8
 

 Tier I common ratio (Tier I common / Total risk-weighted assets)
  
 
9.4
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 The full impact of the Basel III Accords on the regulatory requirements to which we will be subject will
remain unknown for at least some time until implementing capital regulations are proposed and adopted for U.S. institutions. We will continue to monitor the ongoing rule-making process to assess both the timing and the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act
and Basel III Accords on our business.  Other Sources of Liquidity 
We also maintain $350 million in uncommitted financing to meet margin lending needs. At December 31, 2011, there were no outstanding
balances and the full $350 million was available.  We rely on borrowed funds, from sources such as securities sold under
agreements to repurchase and FHLB advances, to provide liquidity for E*TRADE Bank. Our ability to borrow these funds is dependent upon the continued availability of funding in the wholesale borrowings market. In addition, we can also borrow from the
Federal Reserve Bank’s discount window to meet short-term liquidity requirements, although it is not viewed as the primary source of funding. At December 31, 2011, E*TRADE Bank had approximately $2.7 billion and $1.4 billion in additional
collateralized borrowing capacity with the FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank, respectively. We also have the ability to generate liquidity in the form of additional deposits by raising the yield on our customer deposit accounts. 
  58 


Table of Contents
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
We enter into various off-balance-sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business, primarily to meet the needs of our customers and
to reduce our own exposure to interest rate risk. These arrangements include firm commitments to extend credit and letters of credit. Additionally, we enter into guarantees and other similar arrangements as part of transactions in the ordinary
course of business. For additional information on each of these arrangements, see Note 21—Commitments, Contingencies and Other Regulatory Matters of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
Contractual Obligations and Commitments  The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2011 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (dollars in
millions):   
























  
  
Payments Due by Period
 

 
  
Less Than 1Year
 
  
1-3 Years
 
  
3-5 Years
 
  
Thereafter
 
  
Total
 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase(1)
  
$
3,218.7
 
  
$
1,178.3
 
  
$
433.0
 
  
$
302.4
 
  
$
5,132.4
 

 FHLB advances and other borrowings(1)(2)
  
 
910.3
 
  
 
486.4
 
  
 
834.8
 
  
 
1,098.4
 
  
 
3,329.9
 

 Corporate debt(3)
  
 
164.8
 
  
 
329.6
 
  
 
969.9
 
  
 
1,079.8
 
  
 
2,544.1
 

 Uncertain tax positions 
  
 
10.2
 
  
 
17.1
 
  
 
20.7
 
  
 
341.1
 
  
 
389.1
 

 Certificates of deposit and brokered certificates of deposit(1)(4)
  
 
146.3
 
  
 
46.5
 
  
 
25.1
 
  
 
30.0
 
  
 
247.9
 

 Operating lease payments(5)
  
 
21.1
 
  
 
34.9
 
  
 
35.8
 
  
 
53.2
 
  
 
145.0
 

 Purchase obligations(6)
  
 
54.6
 
  
 
19.1
 
  
 
0.6
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
74.3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total contractual obligations 
  
$
4,526.0
 
  
$
2,111.9
 
  
$
2,319.9
 
  
$
2,904.9
 
  
$
11,862.7
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Includes annual interest based on the contractual features of each transaction, using market rates at December 31, 2011. Interest rates are
assumed to remain at current levels over the life of all adjustable rate instruments. 


(2) 
 For subordinated debentures included in other borrowings, does not assume early redemption under current conversion provisions.



(3) 
 Includes annual interest payments. Does not assume conversion for the non-interest bearing convertible debentures due 2019.



(4) 
 Does not include sweep deposits, complete savings deposits, other money market and savings deposits or checking deposits as there are no stated
maturity dates and /or scheduled contractual payments. 


(5) 
 Includes facilities restructuring leases and is net of estimated future sublease income. 


(6) 
 Includes material purchase obligations for goods and services covered by non-cancelable contracts and contracts with termination clauses. Includes
contracts through the termination date, even if the contract is renewable.  As of December 31, 2011,
the Company had $0.4 billion of unused lines of credit available to customers under home equity lines of credit and $0.3 billion of unused consumer and other lines. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no commitments to purchase loans. The
Company had a commitment to originate and sell mortgage loans of $140.8 million and $11.7 million, respectively. The Company had a commitment to purchase and sell securities of $524.6 million and $192.5 million, respectively. The Company also had
$6.4 million in commitments to fund low income housing tax credit partnerships and other limited partnerships as of December 31, 2011. Additional information related to commitments and contingent liabilities is detailed in Note
21—Commitments, Contingencies and Other Regulatory Matters of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  Other
Liquidity Matters  We do not hold any positions in sovereign debt of European countries and therefore have no direct
exposure to the concerns regarding the creditworthiness of certain sovereign governments in Europe. 
  59 


Table of Contents
RISK MANAGEMENT 
As a financial services company, we are exposed to risks in every component of our business. The identification and management of existing
and potential risks are the keys to effective risk management. Our risk management framework, principles and practices support decision-making, improve the success rate for new initiatives and strengthen the organization. Our goal is to balance
risks and rewards through effective risk management. Risks cannot be completely eliminated; however, we do believe risks can be identified and managed within the Company’s risk tolerance. 
Our businesses expose us to the following four major categories of risk that often overlap: 
 


 
•
 
 Credit Risk—the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in the ability or willingness of a borrower or counterparty to meet the
agreed-upon terms of their financial obligations.   


 
•
 
 Liquidity Risk—the risk of loss resulting from the inability to meet current and future cash flow and collateral needs.
  


 
•
 
 Interest Rate Risk—the risk of loss from adverse changes in interest rates, which could cause fluctuations in our long-term earnings or in
the value of the Company’s net assets.   


 
•
 
 Operational Risk—the risk of loss resulting from fraud, inadequate controls or the failure of the internal controls process, third party
vendor issues, processing issues and external events.  We are also subject to other risks that could impact
our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods. See Part I–Item 1A. Risk Factors.  We manage risk through a governance structure involving the Board of Directors, senior management and several risk committees. We use management level risk committees to help ensure that business
decisions are executed within our desired risk profile. A variety of methodologies and measures are used to monitor, quantify, assess and forecast risk. Measurement criteria, methodologies and calculations are reviewed periodically to assure that
risks are represented appropriately. Risks are managed and controlled under policies and related limits that are approved by the Board of Directors and delegated to senior management. 
The Finance and Risk Oversight Committee, which was established in the second quarter of 2008 and consists of members of the Board of
Directors, monitors the risk process and significant risks throughout the Company. In addition to this committee, various enterprise risk committees and departments throughout the Company aid in the identification and management of risks, including:
  


 
•
 
 Asset Liability Committee—The Asset Liability Committee (“ALCO”) has primary responsibility for managing liquidity risk and
interest rate risk and reviews balance sheet trends, market interest rate and sensitivity analyses.   


 
•
 
 Credit Risk Committee—The Credit Risk Committee monitors asset quality trends, evaluates market conditions, reviews the adequacy of the
allowance for loan losses, establishes underwriting standards, approves large credit exposures, approves large portfolio purchases and delegates credit approval authority. 
Various departments throughout the Company aid in the identification and management of risks. These departments include internal audit,
compliance, finance, legal, treasury, credit and enterprise risk management. Risk reporting occurs at the business or operating units and is aggregated across the Company through the enterprise risk management process. 
Credit Risk Management  Our primary sources of credit risk are our loan and securities portfolios, where risk results from extending credit to customers and purchasing securities, respectively. The degree of credit risk
associated with our loans 
  60 


Table of Contents

and securities varies based on many factors including the size of the transaction, the credit characteristics of the borrower, features of the loan product or security, the contractual terms of
the related documents and the availability and quality of collateral. Credit risk is one of the most common risks in financial services and is one of our most significant risks. 
Credit risk is monitored by our Credit Risk Committee, whose objective is to monitor current and expected market conditions and the
associated probable impact on the Company’s credit risk. The Credit Risk Committee establishes credit risk guidelines in accordance with the Company’s strategic objectives and existing policies. The Credit Risk Committee reviews investment
and lending activities involving credit risk to ensure consistency with those established guidelines. These reviews involve an analysis of portfolio balances, delinquencies, losses, recoveries, default management and collateral liquidation
performance, as well as any credit risk mitigation efforts relating to the portfolios. In addition, the Credit Risk Committee reviews and approves credit related counterparties engaged in financial transactions with the Company. 
Loss Mitigation  We have
a credit management team that focuses on the mitigation of potential losses in the loan portfolio. Through a variety of strategies, including voluntary line closures, automatically freezing lines on all delinquent accounts, and freezing lines on
loans with materially reduced home equity, we have reduced our exposure to open home equity lines from a high of over $7 billion in 2007 to $0.4 billion as of December 31, 2011. 
We also have an initiative to assess our servicing relationships and where appropriate transfer certain mortgage loans to servicers that
specialize in managing troubled assets. We believe this initiative will improve the credit performance of the loans transferred in future periods when compared to the expected credit performance of these same loans if they had not been transferred.
These specialized servicers focus on loan modifications and pursue trial modifications for loans that are more than 180 days delinquent. We completed a transfer of $2.2 billion of mortgage loans during the third and fourth quarters of 2011, which
resulted in a total of $3.0 billion of our mortgage loan portfolio at servicers that specialize in managing troubled assets as of December 31, 2011.  We also have a loan modification program that focuses on the mitigation of potential losses in the loan portfolio. We consider modifications in which we make an economic concession to a borrower
experiencing financial difficulty a TDR. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we modified $569.8 million and $121.8 million of one- to four-family and home equity loans, respectively, in which the modification was considered a TDR. As we
transition from the OTS to the OCC, we are working to align certain policies and procedures with the guidance from the OCC. As a result, we suspended certain modification programs that will require changes and we expect a decrease in the volume of
TDRs in 2012. Trial modifications are classified immediately as TDRs and continue to be reported as delinquent until the successful completion of the trial period, which is typically 90 days. The loan is then classified as current and becomes a
permanent modification. There is no impact on the allowance for loan losses for trial modifications as they were written down to the expected recovery value when they became 180 days past due. 
We also processed minor modifications on a number of loans through traditional collections actions taken in the normal course of
servicing delinquent accounts. These actions typically result in an insignificant delay in the timing of payments; therefore, we do not consider such activities to be economic concessions to the borrowers. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we
had $44.7 million and $49.9 million of mortgage loans, respectively, in which the modification was not considered a TDR due to the insignificant delay in the timing of payments. Approximately 8% of these loans were classified as nonperforming for
both of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.  We continue to review the mortgage loan portfolio in order to
identify loans to be repurchased by the originator. Our review is primarily focused on identifying loans with violations of transaction representations and 
  61 


Table of Contents

warranties or material misrepresentation on the part of the seller. Any loans identified with these deficiencies are submitted to the original seller for repurchase. Approximately $113.8 million
of loans were repurchased by the original sellers for the year ended December 31, 2011. A total of $335.5 million of loans were repurchased by the original sellers since we actively started reviewing our purchased loan portfolio beginning in
2008.  During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we agreed to settlements with three particular originators
specific to loans sold to us by those originators. One-time payments were made to us to satisfy in full all pending and future repurchase requests with those specific originators. We accepted these offers as we believed the economics of these
settlements were to our advantage. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 we applied $46 million and $25 million, respectively, to the allowance for loan losses, resulting in a corresponding reduction to our net charge-offs as well
as our provision for loan losses.  Underwriting Standards—Originated Loans 
We provide access to real estate loans for our customers through a third party company. We structured this arrangement to minimize our
assumption of any of the typical risks commonly associated with mortgage lending. The third party company providing this product performs all processing and underwriting of these loans. The third party company is responsible for the credit risk
associated with these loans and purchases the loans from us shortly after the loan closes. We originated $129.7 million in loans during the year ended December 31, 2011 and we had commitments to originate mortgage loans of $140.8 million at
December 31, 2011.  Liquidity Risk Management  Liquidity risk is monitored and managed by ALCO. We have in place a comprehensive set of liquidity and funding policies that are intended to maintain our flexibility to address liquidity events specific
to us or the market in general. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information. 
Interest Rate Risk Management  Interest rate risks are monitored and managed by ALCO, including the analysis of interest sensitivity to changes in market interest rates under various scenarios. The scenarios assume both parallel and
non-parallel shifts in the yield curve. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for additional information about our interest rate risks.  Operational Risk Management  Operational risks exist in most areas
of the Company from clearing to customer service. While we make every effort to protect against failures in the internal controls system, no system is completely fail proof.  Loss of company and customer assets due to fraud represents one of our most significant operational risks. Fraud losses typically result from unauthorized use of customer and corporate funds and
resources. We monitor customer transactions and use scoring tools which prevent a significant number of fraudulent transactions on a daily basis. However, new techniques and strategies are constantly being developed by perpetrators to commit fraud.
In order to minimize this threat, we offer our customers various security measures, including a token based multi-factor verification system. This token creates a unique password which changes every sixty seconds and must be used along with the
customer’s self-selected password to access their account. We believe this system is an extremely effective tool for preventing unauthorized access to a customer’s account. 
The failure of a third party vendor to adequately meet its responsibilities could result in financial loss and impact our reputation. On
an annual basis, the Vendor Management group monitors our vendor relationships and arrangements. The vendor risk identification process includes reviews of contracts, financial soundness of providers, information security and business continuity.

  62 


Table of Contents
CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK 
Loans  We track
and review factors to predict and monitor credit risk in the mortgage loan portfolio on an ongoing basis. These factors include: loan type, estimated current loan-to-value (“LTV”)/combined loan-to-value (“CLTV”) ratios,
delinquency history, documentation type, borrowers’ current credit scores, housing prices, loan acquisition channel, loan vintage and geographic location of the property. In economic conditions in which housing prices generally appreciate, we
believe that loan type, LTV/CLTV ratios, documentation type and credit scores are the key factors in determining future loan performance. In a housing market with declining home prices and less credit available for refinance, we believe the LTV/CLTV
ratio becomes a more important factor in predicting and monitoring credit risk. The factors are updated on at least a quarterly basis. We track and review delinquency status to predict and monitor credit risk in the consumer and other loan portfolio
on an ongoing basis.  The home equity loan portfolio is primarily second lien loans on residential real estate properties,
which have a higher level of credit risk than first lien mortgage loans. Approximately 14% of the home equity portfolio was in the first lien position as of December 31, 2011. We hold both the first and second lien positions in less than 1% of
the home equity loan portfolio. The home equity loan portfolio consists of home equity installment loans and home equity lines of credit.  Home equity installment loans are primarily fixed rate and fixed term, fully amortizing loans that do not offer the option of an interest-only payment. Home equity lines of credit convert to amortizing
loans at the end of the draw period, which ranges from 60 months to 120 months. At December 31, 2011, the vast majority of the home equity line of credit portfolio had not converted from the interest-only draw period to an amortizing loan. In
addition, approximately 79% of the home equity line of credit portfolio will not begin amortizing until after 2014. The following table outlines when home equity lines of credit convert to amortizing for the home equity line of credit portfolio as
of December 31, 2011:   








 Period of Conversion to Amortizing Loan
  
% of Home Equity Line ofCredit Portfolio
 

 Already amortizing
  
 
7
% 

 Year ending December 31, 2012
  
 
3
% 

 Year ending December 31, 2013
  
 
4
% 

 Year ending December 31, 2014
  
 
7
% 

 After December 31, 2014
  
 
79
% 
 The following tables show the distribution of the mortgage loan portfolios by credit quality indicator
(dollars in millions):   




















 
  
One- to Four-Family
 
 
Home Equity
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

 Current
LTV/CLTV(1)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 <=80% 
  
$
1,596.3
 
 
$
2,233.2
 
 
$
1,168.9
 
 
$
1,484.9
 

 80%-100% 
  
 
1,716.8
 
 
 
2,329.5
 
 
 
967.9
 
 
 
1,302.9
 

 100%-120% 
  
 
1,527.3
 
 
 
1,732.1
 
 
 
1,191.9
 
 
 
1,482.8
 

 >120% 
  
 
1,775.4
 
 
 
1,875.5
 
 
 
2,000.0
 
 
 
2,139.7
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable 
  
$
6,615.8
 
 
$
8,170.3
 
 
$
5,328.7
 
 
$
6,410.3
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  



 



 



 




 Average estimated current LTV/CLTV(2)
  
 
106.7
% 
 
 
100.8
% 
 
 
112.1
% 
 
 
107.7
% 

 Average LTV/CLTV at loan origination(3)
  
 
71.0
% 
 
 
70.6
% 
 
 
79.2
% 
 
 
79.3
% 
  


(1) 
 Current CLTV calculations for home equity loans are based on the maximum available line for home equity lines of credit and outstanding principal
balance for home equity installment loans. Current property values are updated on a quarterly basis using the most recent property value data available to us. For properties in which we did not have an updated valuation, we utilized home price
indices to estimate the current property value. 


(2) 
 The average estimated current LTV/CLTV ratio reflects the outstanding balance at the balance sheet date, divided by the estimated current value of the
underlying property. 


(3) 
 Average LTV/CLTV at loan origination calculations are based on LTV/CLTV at time of purchase for one- to four-family purchased loans and undrawn
balances for home equity loans. 
  63 


Table of Contents
 




















 
  
One- to Four-Family
 
  
Home Equity
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

 Documentation Type
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Full documentation
  
$
2,845.6
 
  
$
3,556.5
 
  
$
2,699.2
 
  
$
3,201.4
 

 Low/no documentation
  
 
3,770.2
 
  
 
4,613.8
 
  
 
2,629.5
 
  
 
3,208.9
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable
  
$
6,615.8
 
  
$
8,170.3
 
  
$
5,328.7
 
  
$
6,410.3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















 
  
One- to Four-Family
 
  
Home Equity
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

Current FICO(1)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 >=720 
  
$
3,557.6
 
  
$
4,438.4
 
  
$
2,780.2
 
  
$
3,101.8
 

 719 - 700 
  
 
585.2
 
  
 
709.6
 
  
 
497.7
 
  
 
665.7
 

 699 - 680 
  
 
448.6
 
  
 
566.3
 
  
 
408.8
 
  
 
550.8
 

 679 - 660 
  
 
385.0
 
  
 
434.8
 
  
 
325.8
 
  
 
411.7
 

 659 - 620 
  
 
525.9
 
  
 
634.0
 
  
 
447.9
 
  
 
512.5
 

 <620 
  
 
1,113.5
 
  
 
1,387.2
 
  
 
868.3
 
  
 
1,167.8
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable 
  
$
6,615.8
 
  
$
8,170.3
 
  
$
5,328.7
 
  
$
6,410.3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 FICO scores are updated on a quarterly basis; however, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were some loans for which the updated FICO scores were
not available. The current FICO distribution as of December 31, 2011 included original FICO scores for approximately $153 million and $30 million of one- to four-family and home equity loans, respectively. The current FICO distribution as of
December 31, 2010 included original FICO scores for approximately $218 million and $168 million of one- to four-family and home equity loans, respectively. 
 




















 
  
One- to Four-Family
 
  
Home Equity
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

 Acquisition Channel
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Purchased from a third party
  
$
5,420.8
 
  
$
6,687.7
 
  
$
4,669.6
 
  
$
5,607.2
 

 Originated by the Company
  
 
1,195.0
 
  
 
1,482.6
 
  
 
659.1
 
  
 
803.1
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable
  
$
6,615.8
 
  
$
8,170.3
 
  
$
5,328.7
 
  
$
6,410.3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















 
  
One- to Four-Family
 
  
Home Equity
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

 Vintage Year
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 2003 and prior
  
$
239.9
 
  
$
297.6
 
  
$
302.6
 
  
$
392.1
 

 2004
  
 
620.5
 
  
 
759.3
 
  
 
472.9
 
  
 
585.7
 

 2005
  
 
1,377.7
 
  
 
1,713.4
 
  
 
1,387.0
 
  
 
1,615.8
 

 2006
  
 
2,528.5
 
  
 
3,108.3
 
  
 
2,480.0
 
  
 
2,999.1
 

 2007
  
 
1,841.1
 
  
 
2,276.6
 
  
 
674.8
 
  
 
805.0
 

 2008
  
 
8.1
 
  
 
15.1
 
  
 
11.4
 
  
 
12.6
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable
  
$
6,615.8
 
  
$
8,170.3
 
  
$
5,328.7
 
  
$
6,410.3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  64 


Table of Contents
 




















 
  
One- to Four-Family
 
  
Home Equity
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

 Geographic Location
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 California
  
$
3,096.0
 
  
$
3,773.6
 
  
$
1,690.3
 
  
$
2,038.3
 

 New York
  
 
488.2
 
  
 
613.0
 
  
 
387.0
 
  
 
459.0
 

 Florida
  
 
458.2
 
  
 
563.4
 
  
 
377.8
 
  
 
456.0
 

 Virginia
  
 
280.8
 
  
 
338.1
 
  
 
234.1
 
  
 
278.0
 

 Other states
  
 
2,292.6
 
  
 
2,882.2
 
  
 
2,639.4
 
  
 
3,179.0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable
  
$
6,615.8
 
  
$
8,170.3
 
  
$
5,328.6
 
  
$
6,410.3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Approximately 40% of the Company’s real estate loans were concentrated in California at both
December 31, 2011 and 2010. No other state had concentrations of real estate loans that represented 10% or more of the Company’s real estate portfolio.  Additionally, we do not expect interest rate resets to be a material driver of credit costs in the future as less than 1% of one- to four-family loans are expected to experience a payment increase of more
than 10% and nearly 70% are expected to reset to a lower payment in 2012. We expect approximately $3.2 billion in one-to four-family loans to reset in 2012 of which $1.1 billion are resetting for the first time. 
Allowance for Loan Losses 
The allowance for loan losses is management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet
date. The estimate of the allowance for loan losses is based on a variety of quantitative and qualitative factors, including the composition and quality of the portfolio; delinquency levels and trends; current and historical charge-off and loss
experience; our historical loss mitigation experience; the condition of the real estate market and geographic concentrations within the loan portfolio; the interest rate climate; the overall availability of housing credit; and general economic
conditions. The allowance for loan losses is typically equal to management’s forecast of loan losses in the twelve months following the balance sheet date as well as the forecasted losses, including economic concessions to borrowers, over the
estimated remaining life of loans modified as TDRs.  The following table presents the allowance for loan losses by major loan
category (dollars in millions):   




































  
 
One- to Four-Family 
 
 
Home Equity 
 
 
Consumer and Other 
 
 
Total 
 

  
 
Allowance
 
 
Allowance asa % of LoansReceivable(1)
 
 
Allowance
 
 
Allowance asa % of LoansReceivable(1)
 
 
Allowance
 
 
Allowance asa % of LoansReceivable(1)
 
 
Allowance
 
 
Allowance asa % of LoansReceivable(1)
 

 December 31, 2011
 
$
314.2
 
 
 
4.73
% 
 
$
463.3
 
 
 
8.60
% 
 
$
45.3
 
 
 
4.02
% 
 
$
822.8
 
 
 
6.25
% 

 December 31, 2010
 
$
389.6
 
 
 
4.75
% 
 
$
576.1
 
 
 
8.87
% 
 
$
65.5
 
 
 
4.48
% 
 
$
1,031.2
 
 
 
6.38
% 
  


(1) 
 Allowance as a percentage of loans receivable is calculated based on the gross loans receivable for each respective category.
 During the year ended December 31, 2011, the allowance for loan losses decreased by $208.4 million
from the level at December 31, 2010. The decrease was driven by improving credit trends and loan portfolio run-off, as evidenced by the lower levels of delinquent loans in the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios. The provision
for loan losses has declined for three consecutive years, down 72% from its peak of $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. We expect provision for loan losses to continue to decline in 2012 when compared to 2011, although it is
subject to variability from quarter to quarter.  As we transition from the OTS to the OCC, we are evaluating programs and
practices that were designed in accordance with guidance from the OTS. We are working to align certain policies and procedures to the guidance from the OCC and have suspended certain loan modification programs that will require changes. We increased
the qualitative reserve in 2011 to reflect additional estimated losses during the period of reduced activity in our 
  65 


Table of Contents

modification programs, as well as uncertainty around certain loans modified under our previous programs. Once the evaluation of the existing programs and practices is complete and any necessary
changes have been implemented, we will re-assess the overall qualitative reserve. See Summary of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for a discussion of the estimates and assumptions used in the allowance for loan losses, including the
qualitative reserve.  Troubled Debt Restructurings  Included in allowance for loan losses was a specific allowance of $320.1 million and $357.0 million that was established for TDRs at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The specific allowance
for these individually impaired loans represents the forecasted losses over the remaining life of the loan, including the economic concession to the borrower. The following table shows loans that have been modified in a TDR and the specific
valuation allowance by loan portfolio as well as the percentage of total expected losses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in millions):   
























  
  
RecordedInvestment inTDRs
 
  
SpecificValuationAllowance
 
  
Net Investment inTDRs
 
  
Specific ValuationAllowance as a %of TDR Loans
 
 
TotalExpectedLosses
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



 




 One- to four-family
  
$
973.0
 
  
$
101.2
 
  
$
871.8
 
  
 
10
% 
 
 
28
% 

 Home equity
  
 
445.9
 
  
 
218.9
 
  
 
227.0
 
  
 
49
% 
 
 
55
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 




 Total
  
$
1,418.9
 
  
$
320.1
 
  
$
1,098.8
 
  
 
23
% 
 
 
35
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 




 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



  



 




 One- to four-family
  
$
548.6
 
  
$
84.5
 
  
$
464.1
 
  
 
15
% 
 
 
28
% 

 Home equity
  
 
488.3
 
  
 
272.5
 
  
 
215.8
 
  
 
56
% 
 
 
59
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 




 Total
  
$
1,036.9
 
  
$
357.0
 
  
$
679.9
 
  
 
34
% 
 
 
42
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 



 The recorded investment in TDRs includes the charge-offs related to certain loans that were written down
to the estimated current value of the underlying property less estimated costs to sell. These charge-offs were recorded on loans that were delinquent in excess of 180 days or in bankruptcy prior to the loan modification. The total expected loss on
TDRs includes both the previously recorded charge-offs and the specific valuation allowance.  The following table shows the
TDRs by delinquency category as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in millions):   
























 
  
TDRsCurrent
 
  
TDRs 30-89DaysDelinquent
 
  
TDRs 90-179DaysDelinquent
 
  
TDRs 180+DaysDelinquent
 
  
Total RecordedInvestment inTDRs
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 One- to four-family
  
$
774.0
 
  
$
85.7
 
  
$
31.3
 
  
$
82.0
 
  
$
973.0
 

 Home equity
  
 
351.6
 
  
 
51.4
 
  
 
34.5
 
  
 
8.4
 
  
 
445.9
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,125.6
 
  
$
137.1
 
  
$
65.8
 
  
$
90.4
 
  
$
1,418.9
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



  



  




 One- to four-family
  
$
420.2
 
  
$
55.5
 
  
$
21.6
 
  
$
51.3
 
  
$
548.6
 

 Home equity
  
 
388.7
 
  
 
56.7
 
  
 
39.8
 
  
 
3.1
 
  
 
488.3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
808.9
 
  
$
112.2
 
  
$
61.4
 
  
$
54.4
 
  
$
1,036.9
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 TDRs on accrual status, which are current and have made six or more consecutive payments, were $795.3
million, $508.9 million and $222.8 million as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We did not have any TDRs as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. 
  66 


Table of Contents
We evaluate the re-delinquency rates in order to monitor TDR performance. We also monitor
the average re-delinquency rates for TDRs twelve months after the modification occurred, which are based on cumulative performance since the modification program began.  The following table shows the average re-delinquency rates for TDRs twelve months after the modification occurred:   












 
  
One- to 
Four-Family
 
 
Home Equity
 

 December 31, 2011
  
 
29
% 
 
 
42
% 

 September 30, 2011
  
 
28
% 
 
 
42
% 

 June 30, 2011
  
 
31
% 
 
 
43
% 

 March 31, 2011
  
 
36
% 
 
 
44
% 

 December 31, 2010
  
 
42
% 
 
 
45
% 
 Net Charge-offs  The following table provides an analysis of the allowance for loan losses and net charge-offs for the past five years (dollars in millions): 
 
























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Allowance for loan losses, beginning of period
  
$
1,031.2
 
 
$
1,182.7
 
 
$
1,080.6
 
 
$
508.2
 
 
$
67.6
 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
440.6
 
 
 
779.4
 
 
 
1,498.1
 
 
 
1,583.7
 
 
 
640.1
 

 Charge-offs:
  



 



 



 



 




 One- to four-family
  
 
(228.9
) 
 
 
(302.6
) 
 
 
(364.3
) 
 
 
(138.0
) 
 
 
(5.7
) 

 Home equity
  
 
(457.3
) 
 
 
(600.0
) 
 
 
(966.3
) 
 
 
(820.2
) 
 
 
(168.1
) 

 Consumer and other
  
 
(59.3
) 
 
 
(80.3
) 
 
 
(111.6
) 
 
 
(84.8
) 
 
 
(53.9
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total charge-offs
  
 
(745.5
) 
 
 
(982.9
) 
 
 
(1,442.2
) 
 
 
(1,043.0
) 
 
 
(227.7
) 

 Recoveries:
  



 



 



 



 




 One- to four-family
  
 
20.8
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.4
 
 
 
0.5
 

 Home equity
  
 
58.1
 
 
 
26.6
 
 
 
15.3
 
 
 
8.2
 
 
 
4.4
 

 Consumer and other
  
 
17.6
 
 
 
25.4
 
 
 
30.9
 
 
 
23.1
 
 
 
23.3
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recoveries
  
 
96.5
 
 
 
52.0
 
 
 
46.2
 
 
 
31.7
 
 
 
28.2
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net charge-offs
  
 
(649.0
) 
 
 
(930.9
) 
 
 
(1,396.0
) 
 
 
(1,011.3
) 
 
 
(199.5
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance for loan losses, end of period
  
$
822.8
 
 
$
1,031.2
 
 
$
1,182.7
 
 
$
1,080.6
 
 
$
508.2
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net charge-offs to average loans receivable outstanding
  
 
4.42
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
6.04
% 
 
 
3.64
% 
 
 
0.65
% 
 The following table allocates the allowance for loan losses by loan category (dollars
in millions):   












































  
 
December 31, 
 

  
 
2011 
 
 
2010 
 
 
2009 
 
 
2008 
 
 
2007 
 

  
 
Amount
 
 
%(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
%(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
%(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
%(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
%(1)
 

 One- to four-family
 
$
314.2
 
 
 
50.7
% 
 
$
389.6
 
 
 
51.0
% 
 
$
489.9
 
 
 
52.4
% 
 
$
185.2
 
 
 
51.3
% 
 
$
18.8
 
 
 
51.3
% 

 Home equity
 
 
463.3
 
 
 
40.8 
  
 
 
576.1
 
 
 
40.0 
  
 
 
620.0
 
 
 
38.5 
  
 
 
833.8
 
 
 
39.6 
  
 
 
459.2
 
 
 
39.4 
  

 Consumer and other
 
 
45.3
 
 
 
8.5 
  
 
 
65.5
 
 
 
9.0 
  
 
 
72.8
 
 
 
9.1 
  
 
 
61.6
 
 
 
9.1 
  
 
 
30.2
 
 
 
9.3 
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total allowance for loan losses
 
$
822.8
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,031.2
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,182.7
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,080.6
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
508.2
 
 
 
100.0
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Represents percentage of loans receivable in the category to total loans receivable, excluding premiums (discounts). 
  67 


Table of Contents
Loan losses are recognized when it is probable that a loss has been incurred. The charge-off
policy for both one- to four-family and home equity loans is to assess the value of the property when the loan has been delinquent for 180 days or is in bankruptcy, regardless of whether or not the property is in foreclosure, and charge-off the
amount of the loan balance in excess of the estimated current value of the underlying property less estimated costs to sell. Closed-end consumer loans are charged-off when the loan has been 120 days delinquent or when it is determined that
collection is not probable.  Net charge-offs for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 decreased by $281.9
million. Net charge-offs declined for two consecutive years, down 54% from its peak of $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. The overall decrease was due primarily to lower delinquencies in both one- to four- family and home equity
loans. We believe net charge-offs will continue to decline in future periods as a result of the downward trend in special mention delinquencies, which is discussed below. However, because the timing and magnitude of the improvement is affected by
many factors, we anticipate variability from quarter to quarter while continuing to see a downward trend over the long term. The following graph illustrates the net charge-offs by quarter: 
  


  68 


Table of Contents
Nonperforming Assets  We classify loans as nonperforming when they are no longer accruing interest, which includes loans that are 90 days past due and TDRs that are on nonaccrual status for all classes of loans. The following
table shows the comparative data for nonperforming loans and assets (dollars in millions):   
























  
  
December 31, 
 

  
  
2011
 
 
2010(1)
 
 
2009(1)
 
 
2008(1)
 
 
2007(1)
 

 One- to four-family
  
$
930.2
 
 
$
1,256.2
  
 
$
1,335.9
  
 
$
593.1
  
 
$
181.3
  

 Home equity
  
 
281.4
 
 
 
360.8
  
 
 
430.2
  
 
 
341.2
  
 
 
229.5
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
4.5
 
 
 
5.5
  
 
 
6.7
  
 
 
7.8
  
 
 
7.6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total nonperforming loans
  
 
1,216.1
 
 
 
1,622.5
  
 
 
1,772.8
  
 
 
942.1
  
 
 
418.4
  

 Real estate owned (“REO”) and other repossessed assets, net
  
 
87.6
 
 
 
133.5
  
 
 
115.7
  
 
 
108.1
  
 
 
45.9
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total nonperforming assets, net
  
$
1,303.7
 
 
$
1,756.0
  
 
$
1,888.5
  
 
$
1,050.2
  
 
$
464.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonperforming loans receivable as a percentage of gross loans receivable
  
 
9.24
% 
 
 
10.04
%  
 
 
8.71
%  
 
 
3.69
%  
 
 
1.37
%  

 One- to four-family allowance for loan losses as a percentage of one- to four-family nonperforming loans
  
 
33.78
% 
 
 
31.01
%  
 
 
36.67
%  
 
 
31.22
%  
 
 
10.39
% 

 Home equity allowance for loan losses as a percentage of home equity nonperforming loans
  
 
164.64
% 
 
 
159.67
% 
 
 
144.15
% 
 
 
244.34
% 
 
 
200.05
% 

 Consumer and other allowance for loan losses as a percentage of consumer and other nonperforming loans
  
 
1000.46
% 
 
 
1194.56
% 
 
 
1082.29
% 
 
 
790.72
% 
 
 
396.71
% 

 Total allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans
  
 
67.66
% 
 
 
63.56
%  
 
 
66.73
%  
 
 
114.70
% 
 
 
121.44
% 
  


(1) 
 Nonperforming loans have been represented to include loans that are 90 days past due and TDRs that are on nonaccrual status for all classes of loans.
 During the year ended December 31, 2011, nonperforming assets, net decreased $452.3 million to $1.3
billion when compared to December 31, 2010. This was attributed primarily to a decrease in nonperforming one- to four-family loans of $326.0 million and home equity loans of $79.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 when
compared to 2010.  The following graph illustrates the nonperforming loans by quarter: 
  


  69 


Table of Contents
Delinquent Loans  We believe the distinction between loans delinquent 90 to 179 days and loans delinquent 180 days and greater is important as loans delinquent 180 days and greater have been written down to their expected
recovery value, whereas loans delinquent 90 to 179 days have not (unless they are in process of bankruptcy). We believe loans delinquent 90 to 179 days is an important measure because these loans are expected to drive the vast majority of future
charge-offs. Additional charge-offs on loans delinquent 180 days and greater are possible if home prices decline beyond current expectations, but we do not anticipate these charge-offs to be significant, particularly when compared to the expected
charge-offs on loans delinquent 90 to 179 days. We expect the balances of one- to four-family loans delinquent 180 days and greater to decline over time; however, we expect the balances to remain at high levels in the near term due to the extensive
amount of time it takes to foreclose on a property in the current real estate market.  The following table shows the
comparative data for loans delinquent 90 to 179 days (dollars in millions):   












  
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 One- to four-family 
  
$
136.2
 
 
$
226.1
 

 Home equity 
  
 
99.7
 
 
 
143.0
 

 Consumer and other loans 
  
 
4.1
 
 
 
4.8
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans delinquent 90-179 days(1)
  
$
240.0
 
 
$
373.9
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loans delinquent 90-179 days as a percentage of gross loans receivable 
  
 
1.82
% 
 
 
2.31
% 
  


(1) 
 The decrease in loans delinquent 90-179 days includes the impact of loan modification programs in which borrowers who were 90-179 days past due were
made current. Loans modified as TDRs are accounted for as nonaccrual loans at the time of modification and return to accrual status after six consecutive payments are made in accordance with the modified terms. 
The following graph shows the loans delinquent 90 to 179 days for each of our major loan categories: 
  


  70 


Table of Contents
In addition to nonperforming assets, we monitor loans in which a borrower’s past credit
history casts doubt on their ability to repay a loan. We classify loans as special mention when they are between 30 and 89 days past due. The following table shows the comparative data for special mention loans (dollars in millions): 
 












  
  
December 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 One- to four-family
  
$
294.8
 
 
$
388.6
 

 Home equity 
  
 
154.6
 
 
 
175.6
 

 Consumer and other loans
  
 
17.7
 
 
 
25.2
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total special mention loans(1)
  
$
467.1
 
 
$
589.4
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Special mention loans receivable as a percentage of gross loans receivable
  
 
3.55
% 
 
 
3.65
% 
  


(1) 
 The decrease in special mention loans includes the impact of loan modification programs in which borrowers who were 30 to 89 days past due were made
current. Loans modified as TDRs are accounted for as nonaccrual loans at the time of modification and return to accrual status after six consecutive payments are made in accordance with the modified terms. 
The trend in special mention loan balances are generally indicative of the expected trend for charge-offs in future periods, as these
loans have a greater propensity to migrate into nonaccrual status and ultimately charge-off. One- to four-family loans are generally secured in a first lien position by real estate assets, reducing the potential loss when compared to an unsecured
loan. Home equity loans are generally secured by real estate assets; however, the majority of these loans are secured in a second lien position, which substantially increases the potential loss when compared to a first lien position. The loss
severity of our second lien home equity loans is approximately 95%.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, special
mention loans decreased by $122.3 million to $467.1 million and are down 53% from their peak of $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2008. This decrease was largely due to a decrease in both one- to four-family and home equity special mention loans.
While the level of special mention loans can fluctuate significantly in any given period, we believe the continued decrease is an encouraging sign regarding the future credit performance of the mortgage loan portfolio. 
The following graph illustrates the special mention loans by quarter: 
  


  71 


Table of Contents
Securities  We focus primarily on security type and credit rating to monitor credit risk in our securities portfolios. We believe our highest concentration of credit risk within this portfolio is the non-agency CMO
portfolio. The table below details the amortized cost of debt securities and FHLB stock by average credit ratings and type of asset as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in millions): 
 




























 December 31, 2011
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BelowInvestmentGrade andNon-Rated
 
  
Total
 

 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
  
$
19,069.0
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
19,069.0
 

 Other agency debt securities
  
 
1,160.6
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,160.6
 

 Agency debentures
  
 
788.5
 
  
 
118.2
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
906.7
 

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
5.6
 
  
 
9.9
 
  
 
8.0
 
  
 
16.1
 
  
 
383.0
 
  
 
422.6
 

 Municipal bonds, corporate bonds and FHLB stock
  
 
150.8
 
  
 
20.0
 
  
 
8.0
 
  
 
9.5
 
  
 
19.9
 
  
 
208.2
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
21,174.5
 
  
$
148.1
 
  
$
16.0
 
  
$
25.6
 
  
$
402.9
 
  
$
21,767.1
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









December 31, 2010
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BelowInvestmentGrade andNon-Rated
 
  
Total
 

 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
  
$
14,946.9
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
14,946.9
 

 Agency debentures
  
 
1,543.7
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,543.7
 

 Other agency debt securities
  
 
502.5
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
502.5
 

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
37.4
 
  
 
49.3
 
  
 
115.7
 
  
 
9.0
 
  
 
278.9
 
  
 
490.3
 

 Municipal bonds, corporate bonds and FHLB stock
  
 
194.8
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17.4
 
  
 
19.9
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
232.1
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
17,225.3
 
  
$
49.3
 
  
$
133.1
 
  
$
28.9
 
  
$
278.9
 
  
$
17,715.5
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 S&P downgraded the long-term debt rating of the U.S. government from AAA to AA+ in 2011 while
Moody’s and Fitch maintained their AAA rating. We categorize securities based on average credit rating and as a result, the credit ratings for agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs, other agency debt securities and agency debentures backed
by the U.S. government continued to be classified as AAA as of December 31, 2011.  Certain non-agency CMOs were
other-than-temporarily impaired as a result of the deterioration in the expected credit performance of the underlying loans in those specific securities. As of December 31, 2011, we held approximately $329.9 million in amortized cost of
non-agency CMOs that had been other-than-temporarily impaired. We recorded $14.9 million, $37.7 million and $89.1 million of net impairment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to other-than-temporarily
impaired non-agency CMOs. Further declines in the performance of our non-agency CMO portfolio could result in additional impairments in future periods.  SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with GAAP. Note
1–Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contains a summary of our significant accounting policies, many of which require the use of
estimates and assumptions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, the following are noteworthy because they are based on estimates and assumptions that require complex and subjective judgments by management. Changes in these
estimates or assumptions could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. 
  72 


Table of Contents
Allowance for Loan Losses  Description  The allowance for loan losses is management’s estimate of
probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. In determining the adequacy of the allowance, we perform periodic evaluations of the loan portfolio and loss forecasting assumptions. As of December 31, 2011, the
allowance for loan losses was $822.8 million on $13.1 billion of total loans receivable designated as held-for-investment.  Judgments
 Determining the adequacy of the allowance is complex and requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that
are inherently uncertain. Subsequent evaluations of the loan portfolio, in light of the factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the allowance for loan losses in future periods. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan
losses by loan portfolio segment: one- to four-family, home equity and consumer and other loan portfolios. The estimate of the allowance for loan losses is based on a variety of quantitative and qualitative factors, including the composition and
quality of the portfolio; delinquency levels and trends; current and historical charge-off and loss experience; our historical loss mitigation experience; the condition of the real estate market and geographic concentrations within the loan
portfolio; the interest rate climate; the overall availability of housing credit; and general economic conditions. The allowance for loan losses is typically equal to management’s forecast of loan losses in the twelve months following the
balance sheet date as well as the forecasted losses, including economic concessions to borrowers, over the estimated remaining life of loans modified as TDRs.  For loans that are not TDRs, we established a general allowance. The one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios are separated into risk segments based on key risk factors, which include but are
not limited to loan type, loan acquisition channel, delinquency history, documentation type, LTV/CLTV ratio and borrowers’ credit scores. For home equity loans in the second lien position, the original balance of the first lien loan at
origination date and updated valuations on the property underlying the loan are used to calculate CLTV. Both current CLTV and FICO scores are among the factors utilized to categorize the risk associated with mortgage loans and assign a probability
assumption of future default. We utilize historical mortgage loan performance data to calibrate the forecast of future delinquency and default for these risk segments. The consumer and other loan portfolio is separated into risk segments by product
and delinquency status. We utilize historical performance data and historical recovery rates on collateral liquidation to forecast future delinquency and loss at the product level. The one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolios represented
51% and 41%, respectively, of total loans receivable as of December 31, 2011. The consumer and other loan portfolio represented 8% of total loans receivable as of December 31, 2011. 
The general allowance for loan losses also included a qualitative component to account for a variety of economic and operational factors
that are not directly considered in the quantitative loss model but are factors we believe may impact the level of credit losses. Examples of these economic and operational factors are changes in the level of unemployment and the limited historical
charge-off and loss experience on modified loans. The qualitative component for the consumer and other loan portfolio was 15% of the general allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The qualitative component for the one- to
four-family and home equity loan portfolios increased from 15% of the general allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2010 to 35% at December 31, 2011. The total qualitative factor was $124 million as of December 31, 2011. As the
OCC conducts its first cycle of examinations since succeeding to the OTS as our bank’s primary federal banking supervisor, its views of our loan-related programs and practices that were designed in accordance with guidance from the OTS may
differ from the views previously taken by the OTS and may result in our making changes to such programs and practices. As part of this regulatory transition, we are evaluating programs and practices that were designed in accordance with guidance
from the OTS. We are working to align certain policies and procedures to the guidance from the OCC and have suspended certain modification programs that will require changes. We increased the qualitative reserve in 2011 to reflect additional
estimated losses during the period of 
  73 


Table of Contents

reduced activity in our modification programs, as well as uncertainty around certain loans modified under our previous programs. Once the evaluation of the existing programs and practices is
complete and any necessary changes have been implemented, we will re-assess the overall qualitative reserve.  For modified
loans accounted for as TDRs, we established a specific allowance. The specific allowance for TDRs factors in the historical default rate of an individual loan before being modified as a TDR in the discounted cash flow analysis in order to determine
that specific loan’s expected impairment. For both of the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolio segments, each loan’s individual default experience is analyzed in addition to the performance observed in similar seasoned TDRs
in our overall TDR program when calculating the specific allowance. A specific allowance is established to the extent that the recorded investment exceeds the discounted cash flows of a TDR with a corresponding charge to provision for loan losses.
The specific allowance for these individually impaired loans represents the forecasted losses over the estimated remaining life of the loan, including the economic concession to the borrower. Effects if Actual Results Differ  The crisis in the residential real estate
and credit markets has substantially increased the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in the loan portfolio. In the current market it is difficult to estimate how potential changes in the quantitative and
qualitative factors might impact the allowance for loan losses. If our underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. We may be required under such
circumstances to further increase the provision for loan losses, which could have an adverse effect on the regulatory capital position and our results of operations in future periods.  Estimates of Effective Tax Rates, Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowances 
Description  In preparing
the consolidated financial statements, we calculate income tax expense (benefit) based on our interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate current tax obligations and the
realizability of uncertain tax positions and to assess temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, the net
amount of which we show as other assets or other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. We must also assess the likelihood that each of the deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization is not more likely
than not, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a reporting period, we generally record a corresponding tax expense in the consolidated statement of income (loss). Conversely, to
the extent circumstances indicate that a valuation allowance is no longer necessary, that portion of the valuation allowance is reversed, which generally reduces overall income tax expense. At December 31, 2011 we had deferred tax assets of
$1.6 billion, net of a valuation allowance (on state, foreign country and charitable contribution deferred tax assets) of $73.5 million. 
Judgments  Management
must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income tax expense (benefit), deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against net deferred tax assets. Changes in our estimate of these taxes occur
periodically due to changes in the tax rates, changes in business operations, implementation of tax planning strategies, the expiration of relevant statutes of limitations, resolution with taxing authorities of uncertain tax positions and newly
enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance.  The most significant tax related judgment made by management was the
determination of whether to provide for a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income if we determine, based on available evidence at
the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 
  74 


Table of Contents
Our analysis of the need for a valuation allowance recognizes that we are in a cumulative
book loss position as of the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, which is considered significant and objective evidence that we may not be able to realize some portion of the deferred tax assets in the future. However, we did not
establish a valuation allowance against federal deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011 as we believe that it is more likely than not that all of these assets will be realized. Approximately two-thirds of existing federal deferred tax
assets are not related to net operating losses and therefore, have no expiration date. We expect to utilize the vast majority of the existing federal deferred tax assets over the next seven years, with a small balance remaining as a result of the
current limitation caused by the ownership change (which is expected to be fully utilized in advance of the statutory carry forward period).  Our evaluation focused on identifying significant, objective evidence that we will be able to realize the deferred tax assets in the future. We determined that our expectations regarding future earnings
are objectively verifiable due to various factors. One factor is the consistent profitability of the core business, the trading and investing segment, which has generated substantial income for each of the last eight years, including through
uncertain economic and regulatory environments. The core business is driven by brokerage customer activity and includes trading, brokerage cash, margin lending, long-term investing and other brokerage related activities. These activities drive
variable expenses that correlate to the volume of customer activity, which has resulted in stable, ongoing profitability. 
Another factor is the mitigation of losses in the balance sheet management segment, which generated a large net operating loss in 2007
caused by the crisis in the residential real estate and credit markets. Much of this loss came from the sale of the asset-backed securities portfolio and credit losses from the mortgage loan portfolio. We no longer hold any of those asset-backed
securities and shut down mortgage loan acquisition activities in 2007. In effect, the key business activities that led to the generation of the deferred tax assets were shut down over four years ago. As a result, the losses in the balance sheet
management segment have continued to decline significantly. In addition, we continue to realize the benefit of various credit loss mitigation activities for the mortgage loans purchased in 2007 and prior, most notably, actively reducing or closing
unused home equity lines of credit and aggressively exercising put-back clauses to sell back improperly documented loans to the originators. As a result of these loss containment measures, provision for loan losses has declined for three consecutive
years, down 72% from its peak of $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008.  We maintain a valuation allowance
for certain of our state deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that they will not be realized. At December 31, 2011, we had state deferred tax assets of approximately $102.1 million that related to our state net operating loss carry
forwards and temporary differences with a valuation allowance of $28.7 million against such deferred tax assets.  Effects if Actual Results
Differ  Changes in tax expense (benefit) due to the actual effective tax rates differing from our estimates affect accrued
taxes and could be material to results of operations for any particular reporting period. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimated future taxable income based on management approved forecasts. This process required significant
judgment by management about matters that are by nature uncertain. If future events differ significantly from our current forecasts, a valuation allowance may need to be established, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.  Classification and Valuation of Certain Investments 
Description  The
classification of an investment determines its accounting treatment. We classify our investments in securities as trading, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. Trading securities are carried at fair value and both unrealized and realized gains
and losses are recognized in the consolidated statement of income (loss). Securities 
  75 


Table of Contents

classified as available-for-sale are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax. Held-to-maturity securities are carried
at amortized cost based on our positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. Declines in fair value for available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities that we believe to be other-than-temporary are included in the
consolidated statement of income (loss) in the net impairment line item. As of December 31, 2011, the available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities portfolios consisted of debt securities, the majority of which were residential
mortgage-backed securities.  Available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities that have unrealized or unrecognized losses
(impaired securities) are evaluated for OTTI at each balance sheet date. We consider OTTI for an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity debt security to have occurred if one of the following conditions are met: we intend to sell the impaired debt
security; it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the impaired debt security before recovery of the security’s amortized cost basis; or we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If we
intend to sell an impaired debt security or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the impaired debt security before recovery of the security’s amortized cost basis, we will recognize OTTI in earnings equal to the entire
difference between the security’s amortized cost basis and the security’s fair value. For impaired debt securities that we do not intend to sell and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell before recovery of the
security’s amortized cost basis, if we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the securities, we will separate OTTI into two components: 1) the amount related to credit loss, recognized in earnings; and 2) the noncredit
portion of OTTI, recognized through other comprehensive income (loss). For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized $14.9 million of net impairment on certain securities in the non-agency CMO portfolio. 
Judgments   Our
evaluation of whether we intend to sell an impaired debt security considers whether management has decided to sell the security as of the balance sheet date. Our evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell an
impaired debt security before recovery of the security’s amortized cost basis considers the likelihood of sales that involve legal, regulatory or operational requirements. For impaired debt securities that we do not intend to sell and it is not
more likely than not that we will be required to sell before recovery of the security’s amortized cost basis, we use both qualitative and quantitative valuation measures to evaluate whether we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis
of the security. We consider all available information relevant to the collectibility of the security, including credit enhancements, security structure, vintage, credit ratings and other relevant collateral characteristics. 
Effects if Actual Results Differ  Determining if a security has OTTI is complex and requires judgment by management about circumstances that are inherently uncertain. Subsequent evaluations of these securities, in light of factors then
prevailing, may result in additional OTTI in future periods. If all available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities with fair values lower than amortized cost as of December 31, 2011 were other-than-temporarily impaired and the gross OTTI
was recorded through earnings, we would have recorded a pre-tax loss of $117.5 million.  Accounting for Derivative Instruments
 Description  We enter into derivative transactions primarily to protect against interest rate risk on the value of certain assets, liabilities and future cash flows. Accounting for derivatives differs significantly
depending on whether a derivative is designated as a hedge. Derivative instruments in hedging relationships that mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of assets or liabilities are considered fair value hedges. Derivative instruments
designated in hedging relationships that mitigate exposure to the variability in expected future cash flows or other 
  76 


Table of Contents

forecasted transactions are considered cash flow hedges. In order to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, documentation must indicate the intention to designate the derivative as a hedge of a
specific asset or liability or a future cash flow. Effectiveness of the hedge must be monitored over the life of the derivative instrument.  Each derivative instrument is recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value as a freestanding asset or liability. Fair value hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the
derivative instrument and the fair value of the asset or liability being hedged on the consolidated balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of both of the derivatives and the underlying assets or liabilities are recognized in the gains on loans and
securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss). To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, the changes in the fair values will not offset and the difference, or hedge ineffectiveness, is reflected in the gains on loans
and securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss). Cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the consolidated balance sheet. The effective portion of the changes in fair
value of the derivative instrument in a cash flow hedge is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax in the consolidated balance sheet, for both active and terminated hedges. Amounts are then included in net
operating interest income as a yield adjustment in the same period the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of the derivative instrument in a cash flow hedge is reported in the gains on
loans and securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss).  Cash flow hedge relationships are treated
as effective hedges as long as the hedged forecasted transactions remain probable and the hedges continue to meet the requirements of derivatives and hedging accounting guidance. If it becomes probable that a hedged forecasted transaction will not
occur, amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the specific hedging instruments would be immediately reclassified into the gains on loans and securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss). As of
December 31, 2011, we had an unrealized pre-tax loss reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss of $734.2 million related to cash flow hedges. Judgments  The future issuances of liabilities underlying cash flow hedge
relationships, including repurchase agreements, are largely dependent on the market demand and liquidity in the wholesale borrowings market. As of December 31, 2011, we believe the forecasted issuance of all liabilities in cash flow hedge
relationships is probable. However, unexpected changes in market conditions in future periods could impact our ability to issue these liabilities. We believe the forecasted issuance of liabilities in the form of repurchase agreements is most
susceptible to an unexpected change in market conditions.  Effects if Actual Results Differ 
If our hedging strategies were to no longer meet the effectiveness criterion or our assumptions about the nature and timing of forecasted
transactions were to be inaccurate, we could no longer apply hedge accounting and our reported results would be significantly affected. For example, if we determined that the forecasted issuance of repurchase agreements associated with our cash flow
hedges was no longer probable, the $595.2 million pre-tax loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to cash flow hedges on repurchase agreements would be reclassified into the gains on loans and securities, net line item in the
consolidated statement of income (loss) in the period in which this determination was made. This loss would have a material adverse effect on our regulatory capital position and results of operations. 
Fair Value Measurements 
Description  Fair value
is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. As of December 31, 2011, 33% and

  77 


Table of Contents

less than 1% of total assets and total liabilities, respectively, represented instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value measurement accounting guidance describes the
following three levels used to classify fair value measurements:   


 
•
 
 Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
 


 
•
 
 Level 2—Quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.
  


 
•
 
 Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 
In determining fair value, we may use various valuation approaches, including market, income and/or cost approaches. The fair value
hierarchy requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant. Accordingly, even
when market assumptions are not readily available, our own assumptions reflect those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. The availability of observable inputs can vary and in certain cases,
the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our
assessment of the significance of a particular input to a fair value measurement requires judgment and consideration of factors specific to the asset or liability.  Judgments  Of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis, 91% were
available-for-sale residential mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2011. Our available-for-sale residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio was composed of: 1) agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs; and 2) non-agency CMOs.
The fair value of agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs was determined using quoted market prices, recent market transactions, spread data and our own trading activities for identical or similar instruments and were categorized in Level 2 of
the fair value hierarchy. Non-agency CMOs were valued using market observable data, including recent market transactions when available. We also utilized a pricing service to corroborate the market observability of our inputs used in the fair value
measurements of non-agency CMOs. The valuations of non-agency CMOs reflect our best estimate of what market participants would consider in pricing the financial instruments. We consider the price transparency for these financial instruments to be a
key determinant of the degree of judgment involved in determining the fair value. The majority of non-agency CMOs were categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2011. 
Effects if Actual Results Differ  The use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value. As of December 31, 2011, less than
1% of total assets and none of total liabilities represented instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis categorized as Level 3. While our recurring fair value estimates of Level 3 instruments utilized observable inputs where available,
the valuations included significant management judgment in determining the relevance and reliability of market information considered. 
Valuation of Goodwill and Other Intangibles  Description  We review goodwill and purchased intangible assets for
impairment on at least an annual basis or when events or changes indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill at December 31, 2011 was $1.9 billion and other intangible assets net of amortization at December 31, 2011 were
$0.3 billion. Other intangible assets have a weighted average remaining useful life of 14 years. 
  78 


Table of Contents
Judgments  The valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets depends on a number of factors, including estimates of future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, expected useful lives of the
assets, appropriate discount rates and other variables. Goodwill is allocated to reporting units, which are components of the business that are one level below operating segments. Each of these reporting units is tested for impairment individually
during the annual evaluation. There is no goodwill assigned to reporting units within the balance sheet management segment. The following table shows the amount of goodwill allocated to each of the reporting units in the trading and investing
segment (dollars in millions):   








 Reporting Unit
  
December 31, 2011
 

 U.S. Brokerage
  
$
1,751.2
  

 Capital Markets
  
 
142.4
  

 Retail Bank
  
 
40.6
  


  
  
  
 

 Total goodwill
  
$
1,934.2
  


  
  
  
 
 In connection with our annual impairment test of goodwill, we concluded that the goodwill was not
impaired as the fair value of the reporting units was in excess of the book value of those reporting units as of December 31, 2011. The fair value of the reporting units exceeded the book value of those reporting units by substantial amounts
(fair value as a percent of book value ranged from approximately 150% to 700%) and therefore did not indicate a significant risk of goodwill impairment based on current projections and valuations. We also evaluate the remaining useful lives on
intangible assets each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization.  Effects if Actual Results Differ  If our estimates of fair value for the
reporting units change due to changes in our business or other factors, we may determine that an impairment charge is necessary. Estimates of fair value are determined based on a complex model using cash flows and company comparisons. If
management’s estimates of future cash flows are inaccurate, the fair value determined could be inaccurate and impairment would not be recognized in a timely manner. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. If changes
in the estimated underlying revenue occur, impairment or a change in the remaining life may need to be recognized. 
  79 


Table of Contents
STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
The following table outlines the information required by the SEC’s Industry Guide 3, “Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding
Companies.” These disclosures are at the enterprise level.   








 Required Disclosure
  
Page
 

 Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Operating Interest
Differential
  




 Average Balance Sheet and Analysis of Net Interest Income
  
 
34
  

 Net Operating Interest Income—Volumes and Rates Analysis
  
 
81
  

 Investment Portfolio
  




 Investment Portfolio—Book Value and Fair Value
  
 
83
  

 Investment Portfolio Maturity
  
 
84
  

 Loan Portfolio
  




 Loans by Type
  
 
82
  

 Loan Maturities
  
 
82
  

 Loan Sensitivities
  
 
82
  

 Risk Elements
  




 Nonaccrual, Past Due and Restructured Loans
  
 
69
  

 Past Due Interest
  
 
129
  

 Policy for Nonaccrual
  
 
104
  

 Potential Problem Loans
  
 
71
  

 Summary of Loan Loss Experience
  




 Analysis of Allowance for Loan Losses
  
 
67
  

 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses
  
 
67
  

 Deposits
  




 Average Balance and Average Rates Paid
  
 
34
  

 Time Deposit Maturities
  
 
139
  

 Time Deposits in Excess of the FDIC Deposit Insurance Coverage Limits
  
 
139
  

 Return on Equity and Assets
  
 
35
  

 Short-Term Borrowings
  
 
85
  

  80 


Table of Contents
Interest Rates and Operating Interest Differential 
Increases and decreases in operating interest income and operating interest expense result from changes in average balances (volume) of
enterprise interest-earning assets and enterprise interest-bearing liabilities, as well as changes in average interest rates (rate). The following table shows the effect that these factors had on the interest earned on our enterprise
interest-earning assets and the interest incurred on our enterprise interest-bearing liabilities. The effect of changes in volume is determined by multiplying the change in volume by the previous year’s average yield/cost. Similarly, the effect
of rate changes is calculated by multiplying the change in average yield/cost by the previous year’s volume. Changes applicable to both volume and rate have been allocated proportionately (dollars in millions): 
 




























 
  
2011 Compared to 2010Increase
(Decrease) Due To
 
 
2010 Compared to 2009Increase
(Decrease) Due To
 

 
  
Volume
 
 
Rate
 
 
Total
 
 
Volume
 
 
Rate
 
 
Total
 

 Enterprise interest-earning assets: 
  



 



 



 



 



 





Loans(1)

  
$
(170.5
) 
 
$
(16.4
) 
 
$
(186.9
) 
 
$
(231.7
) 
 
$
(27.4
) 
 
$
(259.1
) 

 Margin receivables 
  
 
35.4
 
 
 
(14.0
) 
 
 
21.4
 
 
 
63.2
 
 
 
(1.4
) 
 
 
61.8
 

 Available-for-sale securities 
  
 
57.4
 
 
 
(22.4
) 
 
 
35.0
 
 
 
62.1
 
 
 
(147.7
) 
 
 
(85.6
) 

 Held-to-maturity securities 
  
 
101.3
 
 
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
101.0
 
 
 
35.9
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
35.9
 

 Cash and equivalents 
  
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
(0.6
) 
 
 
(2.2
) 
 
 
(5.1
) 
 
 
(4.3
) 
 
 
(9.4
) 

 Segregated cash and investments 
  
 
0.1
 
 
 
(1.1
) 
 
 
(1.0
) 
 
 
(2.1
) 
 
 
(0.2
) 
 
 
(2.3
) 

 Securities borrowed and other 
  
 
(1.9
) 
 
 
21.3
 
 
 
19.4
 
 
 
(2.0
) 
 
 
(19.0
) 
 
 
(21.0
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total enterprise interest-earning assets(2)
  
 
20.2
 
 
 
(33.5
) 
 
 
(13.3
) 
 
 
(79.7
) 
 
 
(200.0
) 
 
 
(279.7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Enterprise interest-bearing liabilities: 
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Retail deposits 
  
 
3.4
 
 
 
(20.2
) 
 
 
(16.8
) 
 
 
(14.9
) 
 
 
(130.0
) 
 
 
(144.9
) 

 Brokered certificates of deposit 
  
 
(3.7
) 
 
 
0.5
 
 
 
(3.2
) 
 
 
(4.0
) 
 
 
(0.1
) 
 
 
(4.1
) 

 Customer payables 
  
 
1.2
 
 
 
0.4
 
 
 
1.6
 
 
 
0.1
 
 
 
(1.9
) 
 
 
(1.8
) 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
  
 
(16.9
) 
 
 
40.4
 
 
 
23.5
 
 
 
(15.9
) 
 
 
(54.6
) 
 
 
(70.5
) 

 FHLB advances and other borrowings 
  
 
(0.5
) 
 
 
(12.6
) 
 
 
(13.1
) 
 
 
(27.7
) 
 
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
(29.5
) 

 Securities loaned and other 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(0.1
) 
 
 
(0.1
) 
 
 
0.4
 
 
 
(1.2
) 
 
 
(0.8
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total enterprise interest-bearing liabilities 
  
 
(16.5
) 
 
 
8.4
 
 
 
(8.1
) 
 
 
(62.0
) 
 
 
(189.6
) 
 
 
(251.6
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in enterprise net interest income 
  
$
36.7
 
 
$
(41.9
) 
 
$
(5.2
) 
 
$
(17.7
) 
 
$
(10.4
) 
 
$
(28.1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Nonaccrual loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on such nonaccrual loans is recognized on a cash basis.



(2) 
 Amount includes a taxable equivalent increase in operating interest income of $1.2 million, $1.2 million and $2.1 million for years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  81 


Table of Contents
Lending Activities  The following table presents the balance and associated percentage of each major loan category in our portfolio (dollars in millions): 
 












































 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
 
Balance
 
 
%
 
 
Balance
 
 
%
 
 
Balance
 
 
%
 
 
Balance
 
 
%
 
 
Balance
 
 
%
 

 One- to four-family
 
$
6,615.8
 
 
 
50.7
% 
 
$
8,170.3
 
 
 
51.0
% 
 
$
10,567.1
 
 
 
52.4
% 
 
$
12,979.8
 
 
 
51.3
% 
 
$
15,506.9
 
 
 
51.3
% 

 Home equity
 
 
5,328.7
 
 
 
40.8
 
 
 
6,410.3
 
 
 
40.0
 
 
 
7,769.7
 
 
 
38.5
 
 
 
10,017.2
 
 
 
39.6
 
 
 
11,901.3
 
 
 
39.4
 

 Consumer and other:
 
 
1,113.2
 
 
 
8.5
 
 
 
1,443.4
 
 
 
9.0
 
 
 
1,841.3
 
 
 
9.1
 
 
 
2,298.6
 
 
 
9.1
 
 
 
2,823.3
 
 
 
9.3
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans receivable
 
 
13,057.7
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
16,024.0
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
20,178.1
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
25,295.6
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
30,231.5
 
 
 
100.0
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjustments:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Premiums (discounts) and deferred fees on loans
 
 
97.9
 
 



 
 
129.1
 
 



 
 
171.6
 
 



 
 
236.8
 
 



 
 
315.5
 
 




 Allowance for loan losses
 
 
(822.8
) 
 



 
 
(1,031.2
) 
 



 
 
(1,182.7
) 
 



 
 
(1,080.6
) 
 



 
 
(508.1
) 
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total adjustments
 
 
(724.9
) 
 



 
 
(902.1
) 
 



 
 
(1,011.1
) 
 



 
 
(843.8
) 
 



 
 
(192.6
) 
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Loans receivable, net
 
$
12,332.8
 
 



 
$
15,121.9
 
 



 
$
19,167.0
 
 



 
$
24,451.8
 
 



 
$
30,038.9
 
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 The following table shows the contractual maturities of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2011,
including scheduled principal repayments. This table does not, however, include any estimate of prepayments. These prepayments could significantly shorten the average loan lives and cause the actual timing of the loan repayments to differ from those
shown in the following table (dollars in millions):   




















 
  
Due in (1)
 
  
Total
 

 
  
< 1 Year
 
  
1-5 Years
 
  
>5 Years 
 
  

 One- to four-family 
  
$
127.1
 
  
$
573.9
 
  
$
5,914.8 
  
  
$
6,615.8
 

 Home equity 
  
 
220.9
 
  
 
998.9
 
  
 
4,108.9 
  
  
 
5,328.7
 

 Consumer and other 
  
 
144.4
 
  
 
384.2
 
  
 
584.6 
  
  
 
1,113.2
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans receivable 
  
$
492.4
 
  
$
1,957.0
 
  
$
10,608.3 
  
  
$
13,057.7
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Estimated scheduled principal repayments are calculated using weighted-average interest rate and weighted-average remaining maturity of each loan
portfolio.  The following table shows the distribution of those loans that mature in more than one year
between fixed and adjustable interest rate loans at December 31, 2011 (dollars in millions):   
















 
  
Interest Rate Type
 
  
 
 

 
  
Fixed
 
  
Adjustable
 
  
Total
 

 One- to four-family
  
$
1,500.2
 
  
$
4,988.5
 
  
$
6,488.7
 

 Home equity
  
 
1,138.0
 
  
 
3,969.8
 
  
 
5,107.8
 

 Consumer and other
  
 
954.9
 
  
 
13.9
 
  
 
968.8
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans receivable
  
$
3,593.1
 
  
$
8,972.2
 
  
$
12,565.3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Securities  Our portfolio of mortgage-backed and investment securities is classified into three categories: trading, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. None of our mortgage-backed or investment securities were
classified as held-to-maturity during 2009.  Our mortgage-backed securities portfolio is primarily composed of: 
 


 
•
 
 Fannie Mae participation certificates, guaranteed by Fannie Mae; 
 


 
•
 
 Freddie Mac participation certificates, guaranteed by Freddie Mac; 
  82 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Ginnie Mae participation certificates, guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S.; and 
 


 
•
 
 Collateralized mortgage obligations.  The majority of our investment securities portfolio is composed of other agency debt securities and agency debentures which are unsecured senior debt primarily offered by the Small Business
Administration, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHLB.  Trading securities are carried at fair value with any realized or
unrealized gains and losses reflected in our consolidated statement of income (loss) as gains on loans and securities, net. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with the unrealized gains and losses reflected as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive loss. Held-to-maturity securities are carried at amortized cost based on the Company’s positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. 
The following table shows the amortized cost and fair value of our mortgage-backed and investment securities portfolio that the Company
held and classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity (dollars in millions):   




























 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
Fair Value
 

 Available-for-sale securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
 
$
13,772.1
 
 
$
13,965.7
 
 
$
13,017.8
 
 
$
12,898.1
 
 
$
8,945.4
 
 
$
8,966.9
 

 Non-agency CMOs
 
 
422.6
 
 
 
341.6
 
 
 
490.3
 
 
 
395.4
 
 
 
590.2
 
 
 
375.1
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
14,194.7
 
 
 
14,307.3
 
 
 
13,508.1
 
 
 
13,293.5
 
 
 
9,535.6
 
 
 
9,342.0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Debt securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency debentures
 
 
743.3
 
 
 
731.2
 
 
 
1,324.5
 
 
 
1,269.6
 
 
 
3,928.9
 
 
 
3,920.0
 

 Other agency debt securities
 
 
541.0
 
 
 
554.2
 
 
 
187.6
 
 
 
187.5
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Municipal bonds
 
 
42.3
 
 
 
41.1
 
 
 
42.4
 
 
 
37.3
 
 
 
42.5
 
 
 
39.0
 

 Corporate bonds
 
 
25.4
 
 
 
17.7
 
 
 
25.3
 
 
 
17.8
 
 
 
25.4
 
 
 
17.8
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total debt securities
 
 
1,352.0
 
 
 
1,344.2
 
 
 
1,579.8
 
 
 
1,512.2
 
 
 
3,996.8
 
 
 
3,976.8
 

 Publicly traded equity securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Corporate investments
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.2
 
 
 
0.9
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
 
 
1,352.0
 
 
 
1,344.2
 
 
 
1,579.8
 
 
 
1,512.2
 
 
 
3,997.0
 
 
 
3,977.7
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities
 
$
15,546.7
 
 
$
15,651.5
 
 
$
15,087.9
 
 
$
14,805.7
 
 
$
13,532.6
 
 
$
13,319.7
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Held-to-maturity securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
 
$
5,296.5
 
 
$
5,458.0
 
 
$
1,928.6
 
 
$
1,897.0
 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Investment securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Debt securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency debentures
 
 
163.4
 
 
 
169.2
 
 
 
219.2
 
 
 
216.2
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other agency debt securities
 
 
619.6
 
 
 
655.8
 
 
 
314.9
 
 
 
309.1
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
 
 
783.0
 
 
 
825.0
 
 
 
534.1
 
 
 
525.3
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total held-to-maturity securities
 
$
6,079.5
 
 
$
6,283.0
 
 
$
2,462.7
 
 
$
2,422.3
 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  83 


Table of Contents
The following table shows the scheduled maturities, carrying values and current yields for
the Company’s available-for-sale and held-to-maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2011 (dollars in millions):   












































  
 
Within One Year
 
 
One to Five Years
 
 
Five to Ten Years
 
 
After Ten Years
 
 
Total
 

 
 
BalanceDue
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 
 
BalanceDue
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 
 
BalanceDue
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 
 
BalanceDue
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 
 
BalanceDue
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 

 Available-for-sale securities: 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities: 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs 
 
$
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
1,278.0
 
 
 
2.48
% 
 
$
12,494.1
 
 
 
3.56
% 
 
$
13,772.1
 
 
 
3.46
% 

 Non-agency CMOs 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.2
 
 
 
5.68
% 
 
 
422.4
 
 
 
3.90
% 
 
 
422.6
 
 
 
3.90
% 


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
—  
  
 



 
 
—  
  
 



 
 
1,278.2
 
 



 
 
12,916.5
 
 



 
 
14,194.7
 
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Investment securities: 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Debt securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency debentures
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
88.2
 
 
 
4.13
% 
 
 
655.1
 
 
 
6.13
% 
 
 
743.3
 
 
 
5.84
% 

 Other agency debt securities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
228.9
 
 
 
3.29
% 
 
 
312.1
 
 
 
3.02
% 
 
 
541.0
 
 
 
3.14
% 

 Municipal bonds(1)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
42.3
 
 
 
4.78
% 
 
 
42.3
 
 
 
4.78
% 

 Corporate bonds
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25.4
 
 
 
0.95
% 
 
 
25.4
 
 
 
0.95
% 


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total investment securities 
 
 
—  
  
 



 
 
—  
  
 



 
 
317.1
 
 



 
 
1,034.9
 
 



 
 
1,352.0
 
 





 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Total available-for-sale securities 
 
$
—  
  
 



 
$
—  
  
 



 
$
1,595.3
 
 



 
$
13,951.4
 
 



 
$
15,546.7
 
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Held-to-maturity securities: 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities: 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs 
 
$
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
62.1
 
 
 
2.48
% 
 
$
1,230.4
 
 
 
3.56
% 
 
$
4,004.0
 
 
 
3.74
% 
 
$
5,296.5
 
 
 
3.68
% 

 Investment securities: 
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Debt securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency debentures
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
163.4
 
 
 
2.00
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
163.4
 
 
 
2.00
% 

 Other agency debt securities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.2
 
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
415.3
 
 
 
3.64
% 
 
 
204.1
 
 
 
3.68
% 
 
 
619.6
 
 
 
3.65
% 


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total investment securities
 
 
—  
  
 



 
 
163.6
 
 



 
 
415.3
 
 



 
 
204.1
 
 



 
 
783.0
 
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total held-to-maturity securities
 
$
—  
  
 



 
$
225.7
 
 



 
$
1,645.7
 
 



 
$
4,208.1
 
 



 
$
6,079.5
 
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



  


(1) 
 Yields on tax-exempt obligations are computed on a tax-equivalent basis.  Borrowings  Deposits represent our most significant source of
funding. In addition, we borrow from the FHLB and sell securities under repurchase agreements.  We are a member of, and own
capital stock in, the FHLB system. The FHLB provides us with reserve credit capacity and authorizes us to apply for advances based on the security of pledged home mortgages and other assets—principally securities that are obligations of, or
guaranteed by, the U.S. Government—provided we meet certain creditworthiness standards. At December 31, 2011, outstanding advances from the FHLB totaled $2.3 billion at interest rates ranging from 0.14% to 5.56% and at a weighted-average
rate of 3.18%. 
  84 


Table of Contents
We also raise funds by selling securities under agreements to repurchase the same or similar
securities. The counterparties to these agreements hold the securities in custody. We treat repurchase agreements as borrowings and secure them with designated fixed- and variable-rate securities. We also participate in the Federal Reserve
Bank’s term investment option and treasury, tax and loan borrowing programs. We use the proceeds from these transactions to meet our cash flow or asset/liability matching needs. 
The following table sets forth information regarding the weighted-average interest rates and the highest and average month-end balances
of borrowings (dollars in millions):   
























 
  
EndingBalance
 
  
Weighted-Average Rate(1)
 
 
MaximumAmount atMonth-End
 
  
Yearly Weighted-Average
 

  
  
  
 
  
  Balance  
 
  
Rate
 

 At or for the year ended December 31, 2011: 
  



  



 



  



  




 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
  
$
5,015.5
 
  
 
0.95
% 
 
$
5,891.6
 
  
$
5,417.2
 
  
 
2.83
% 

 FHLB advances and other borrowings (2)
  
$
2,732.5
 
  
 
3.19
% 
 
$
2,759.7
 
  
$
2,741.1
 
  
 
3.87
% 

 At or for the year ended December 31, 2010:
  



  



 



  



  




 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
$
5,888.3
 
  
 
0.63
% 
 
$
6,458.1
 
  
$
6,154.3
 
  
 
2.11
% 

 FHLB advances and other borrowings (2)
  
$
2,731.4
 
  
 
3.09
% 
 
$
3,102.1
 
  
$
2,754.3
 
  
 
4.33
% 

 At or for the year ended December 31, 2009: 
  



  



 



  



  




 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
  
$
6,441.9
 
  
 
0.71
% 
 
$
7,177.9
 
  
$
6,725.4
 
  
 
2.98
% 

 FHLB advances and other borrowings (2)
  
$
2,745.3
 
  
 
3.12
% 
 
$
4,372.4
 
  
$
3,392.0
 
  
 
4.38
% 
  


(1) 
 Excludes hedging costs. 


(2) 
 Excludes other borrowings of the parent company of $4.4 million, $0.3 million and $1.6 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
which do not generate operating interest expense. These liabilities generate corporate interest expense.  
GLOSSARY OF TERMS  Active accounts—Accounts with a balance of $25 or more or a trade in the last six
months.  Active customers—Customers that have an account with a balance of $25 or more or a trade in the last six
months.  Active Trader—The customer group that includes those who execute 30 or more stock or options trades per
quarter.  Adjusted total assets—E*TRADE Bank-only assets composed of total assets plus/(less) unrealized losses
(gains) on available-for-sale securities, less disallowed deferred tax assets, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. 
Agency—U.S. Government sponsored and federal agencies, such as Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation, Government National Mortgage Association, the Small Business Administration and the Federal Home Loan Bank.  ALCO—Asset Liability Committee.  AML—Anti-Money
Laundering.  APIC—Additional paid-in capital. 
Average commission per trade—Total trading and investing segment commissions revenue divided by total number of trades.
 Average equity to average total assets—Average total shareholders’ equity divided by average total assets.

  85 


Table of Contents
Bank—ETB Holdings, Inc. (“ETBH”), the entity that is our bank holding
company and parent to E*TRADE Bank.  Basis point—One one-hundredth of a percentage point. 
BCBS—International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 
BOLI—Bank-Owned Life Insurance.  CAMELS rating—A U.S. supervisory rating of a bank’s overall condition. The components of the rating consist of Capital adequacy, Asset quality, Management, Earnings, Liquidity and
Sensitivity to market risk.  Cash flow hedge—A derivative instrument designated in a hedging relationship that
mitigates exposure to variability in expected future cash flows attributable to a particular risk.  CFPB—Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  Charge-off—The result of removing a loan or portion of a loan from an entity’s
balance sheet because the loan is considered to be uncollectible.  CLTV—Combined loan-to-value. 
CMOs—Collateralized mortgage obligations.  Corporate cash—Cash held at the parent company as well as cash held in certain subsidiaries that can distribute cash to the parent company without any regulatory approval. 
Customer assets—Market value of all customer assets held by the Company including security holdings, customer cash and
deposits and vested unexercised options.  Customer cash and deposits—Customer cash, deposits, customer payables
and money market balances, including those held by third parties.  Daily average revenue trades
(“DARTs”)—Total revenue trades in a period divided by the number of trading days during that period. 
Debt Exchange—In the third quarter of 2009, we exchanged $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of our corporate debt,
including $1.3 billion principal amount of the 2017 Notes and $0.4 billion principal amount of the 2011 Notes, for an equal principal amount of newly-issued non-interest-bearing convertible debentures due 2019. 
Derivative—A financial instrument or other contract, the price of which is directly dependent upon the value of one or more
underlying securities, interest rates or any agreed upon pricing index. Derivatives cover a wide assortment of financial contracts, including forward contracts, options and swaps. 
DIF—Deposit Insurance Fund.  Enterprise interest-bearing liabilities—Liabilities such as customer deposits, repurchase agreements, FHLB advances and other borrowings, certain customer credit balances and securities loaned
programs on which the Company pays interest; excludes customer money market balances held by third parties.  Enterprise
interest-earning assets—Consists of the primary interest-earning assets of the Company and includes: loans, available-for-sale securities, held-to-maturity securities, margin receivables, trading securities, securities borrowed balances and
cash and investments required to be segregated under regulatory guidelines that earn interest for the Company. 
  86 


Table of Contents
Enterprise net interest income—The taxable equivalent basis net operating
interest income excluding corporate interest income and corporate interest expense and interest earned on customer cash held by third parties.  Enterprise net interest margin—The enterprise net operating interest income divided by total enterprise interest-earning assets. 
Enterprise net interest spread—The taxable equivalent rate earned on average enterprise interest-earning assets less the rate
paid on average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities, excluding corporate interest-earning assets and liabilities and customer cash held by third parties.  Exchange-traded funds—A fund that invests in a group of securities and trades like an individual stock on an exchange.  Fair value—The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 
Fair value hedge—A derivative instrument designated in a hedging relationship that mitigates exposure to changes in the fair
value of a recognized asset or liability or a firm commitment.  Fannie Mae—Federal National Mortgage Association.
 FASB—Financial Accounting Standards Board. 
FDIC—Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.  FHLB—Federal Home Loan Bank.  FICO—Fair Isaac Credit
Organization.  FINRA—Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. 
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio—Net income (loss) before taxes, depreciation and amortization and corporate interest expense
divided by corporate interest expense. This ratio indicates the Company’s ability to satisfy fixed financing expenses.  Freddie Mac—Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. 
FSA—United Kingdom Financial Services Authority.  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”)—Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
Ginnie Mae—Government National Mortgage Association. 
IFRS—International Financial Reporting Standards.  Interest rate cap—An options contract that puts an upper limit on a floating exchange rate. The writer of the cap has to pay the holder of the cap the difference between the floating rate and
the upper limit when that upper limit is breached. There is usually a premium paid by the buyer of such a contract. 
Interest rate floor—An options contract that puts a lower limit on a floating exchange rate. The writer of
the floor has to pay the holder of the floor the difference between the floating rate and the lower limit when that lower limit is breached. There is usually a premium paid by the buyer of such a contract. 
  87 


Table of Contents
Interest rate swaps—Contracts that are entered into primarily as an
asset/liability management strategy to reduce interest rate risk. Interest rate swap contracts are exchanges of interest rate payments, such as fixed-rate payments for floating-rate payments, based on notional principal amounts. 
LIBOR—London Interbank Offered Rate. LIBOR is the interest rate at which banks borrow funds from other banks in the London
wholesale money market (or interbank market).  Long-term investor—The customer group that includes those who
invest for the long term.  LTV—Loan-to-value. 
NASAA—North American Securities Administrators Association. 
NASDAQ—National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations. 
Net new customer asset flows—The total inflows to all new and existing customer accounts less total outflows from all closed
and existing customer accounts, excluding the effects of market movements in the value of customer assets.  Net Present
Value of Equity (“NPVE”)—The present value of expected cash inflows from existing assets, minus the present value of expected cash outflows from existing liabilities, plus the expected cash inflows and outflows from existing
derivatives and forward commitments. This calculation is performed for E*TRADE Bank.  NOLs—Net operating losses.
 Nonperforming assets—Assets that do not earn income, including those originally acquired to earn income
(nonperforming loans) and those not intended to earn income (REO). Loans are classified as nonperforming when they are no longer accruing interest, which includes loans that are 90 days past due and TDRs that are on nonaccrual status for all classes
of loans.  Notional amount—The specified dollar amount underlying a derivative on which the calculated payments
are based.  NYSE—New York Stock Exchange. 
OCC—Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Operating margin—Income (loss) before other income (expense), income tax benefit and discontinued operations.  Options—Contracts that grant the purchaser, for a premium payment, the right, but not the obligation, to either purchase or sell the associated financial instrument at a set price during a
period or at a specified date in the future.  OTTI—Other-than-temporary impairment. 
OTS—Office of Thrift Supervision.  Real estate owned (“REO”) and other repossessed assets—Ownership of real property by the Company, generally acquired as a result of foreclosure or repossession. 
Recovery—Cash proceeds received on a loan that had been previously charged off. 
Repurchase agreement—An agreement giving the seller of an asset the right or obligation to buy back the same or similar
securities at a specified price on a given date. These agreements are generally collateralized by mortgage-backed or investment-grade securities. 
  88 


Table of Contents
Retail deposits—Balances of customer cash held at the Bank; excludes brokered
certificates of deposit.  Return on average total assets—Annualized net income divided by average assets.
 Return on average total shareholders’ equity—Annualized net income divided by average shareholders’
equity.  Risk-weighted assets—Primarily computed by the assignment of specific risk-weightings assigned by the
regulators to assets and off-balance sheet instruments for capital adequacy calculations. 
S&P—Standard & Poor’s.  SEC—U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Special mention
loans—Loans where a borrower’s past credit history casts doubt on their ability to repay a loan. Loans are classified as special mention when loans are between 30 and 89 days past due. 
Stock plan trades—Trades that originate from our corporate services business, which provides software and services to assist
corporate customers in managing their equity compensation plans. The trades typically occur when an employee of a corporate customer exercises a stock option or sells restricted stock. 
Sweep deposit accounts—Accounts with the functionality to transfer brokerage cash balances to and from a FDIC insured account
at the banking subsidiaries.  Sub-prime—Defined as borrowers with FICO scores less than 620 at the time of
origination.  Taxable equivalent interest adjustment—The operating interest income earned on certain assets is
completely or partially exempt from federal and/or state income tax. These tax-exempt instruments typically yield lower returns than a taxable investment. To provide more meaningful comparison of yields and margins for all interest-earning assets,
the interest income earned on tax exempt assets is increased to make it fully equivalent to interest income on other taxable investments. This adjustment is done for the analytic purposes in the net enterprise interest income/spread calculation and
is not made on the consolidated statement of income (loss), as that is not permitted under GAAP.  Tier I
capital—Adjusted equity capital used in the calculation of capital adequacy ratios. Tier I capital equals: total shareholders’ equity, plus/(less) unrealized losses (gains) on available-for-sale securities and cash flow hedges and
qualifying restricted core capital elements, less disallowed servicing and deferred tax assets, goodwill and certain other intangible assets.  Troubled Debt Restructuring (“TDR”)—A loan modification that involves granting an economic concession to a borrower who is experiencing financial difficulty. 
  89 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  The following discussion about market risk disclosure includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of
certain factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report. Market risk is exposure to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity and commodity prices. Exposure to interest rate
risk is related primarily to interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.  Interest Rate Risk 
The management of interest rate risk is essential to profitability. Interest rate risk is exposure to changes in interest rates. In
general, we manage interest rate risk by balancing variable-rate and fixed-rate assets and liabilities and we utilize derivatives in a way that reduces overall exposure to changes in interest rates. In recent years, we have managed interest rate
risk to achieve a minimum to moderate risk profile with limited exposure to earnings volatility resulting from interest rate fluctuations. Exposure to interest rate risk requires management to make complex assumptions regarding maturities, market
interest rates and customer behavior. Changes in interest rates, including the following, could impact interest income and expense:   


 
•
 
 Interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may re-price at different times or by different amounts creating a mismatch.
  


 
•
 
 The yield curve may steepen, flatten or change shape affecting the spread between short- and long-term rates. Widening or narrowing spreads could
impact net interest income.   


 
•
 
 Market interest rates may influence prepayments resulting in maturity mismatches. In addition, prepayments could impact yields as premium and discounts
amortize.  Exposure to market risk is dependent upon the distribution and composition of interest-earning
assets, interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives. The differing risk characteristics of each product are managed to mitigate our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2011, 90% of our total assets were enterprise
interest-earning assets.  At December 31, 2011, approximately 66% of total assets were residential real estate loans and
available-for-sale and held-to-maturity mortgage-backed securities. The values of these assets are sensitive to changes in interest rates, as well as expected prepayment levels. As interest rates increase, fixed rate residential mortgages and
mortgage-backed securities tend to exhibit lower prepayments. The inverse is true in a falling rate environment.  When real
estate loans prepay, unamortized premiums are written off. Depending on the timing of the prepayment, the write-offs of unamortized premiums may result in lower than anticipated yields. The ALCO reviews estimates of the impact of changing market
rates on prepayments. This information is incorporated into our interest rate risk management strategy.  Our liability
structure consists of two central sources of funding: deposits and wholesale borrowings. Cash provided to us through deposits is the primary source of funding. Key deposit products include sweep accounts, complete savings accounts and other money
market and savings accounts. Wholesale borrowings include securities sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB advances. Other sources of funding include customer payables, which is customer cash contained within our broker-dealers, and corporate
debt issued by the parent company.  Deposit accounts and customer payables tend to be less rate-sensitive than wholesale
borrowings. Agreements to repurchase securities re-price as agreements reset. Sweep accounts, complete savings accounts and other money market and savings accounts re-price at management’s discretion. FHLB advances and corporate debt generally
have fixed rates. 
  90 


Table of Contents
Derivative Instruments 
We use derivative instruments to help manage interest rate risk. Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of fixed-rate and variable-rate
interest payments between two parties based on a contractual underlying notional amount, but do not involve the exchange of the underlying notional amounts. Option products are utilized primarily to decrease the market value changes resulting from
the prepayment dynamics of the mortgage portfolio, as well as to protect against increases in funding costs. The types of options employed include Cap Options (“Caps”), Floor Options (“Floors”), “Payor Swaptions” and
“Receiver Swaptions”. Caps mitigate the market risk associated with increases in interest rates while Floors mitigate the risk associated with decreases in market interest rates. Similarly, Payor and Receiver Swaptions mitigate the market
risk associated with the respective increases and decreases in interest rates. See derivative instruments discussion at Note 7—Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.  Scenario Analysis  Scenario analysis is an advanced approach to estimating interest rate risk exposure. Under the NPVE approach, the present value of all existing assets, liabilities, derivatives and forward commitments are
estimated and then combined to produce a NPVE figure. The sensitivity of this value to changes in interest rates is then determined by applying alternative interest rate scenarios, which include, but are not limited to, instantaneous parallel shifts
up 100, 200 and 300 basis points and down 100 basis points. The NPVE method is used at the E*TRADE Bank level and not for the Company. E*TRADE Bank had 99% of enterprise interest-earning assets at both December 31, 2011 and 2010 and held 98% of
enterprise interest-bearing liabilities at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. The sensitivity of NPVE at December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the limits established by E*TRADE Bank’s Board of Directors are listed below (dollars in millions):
  
























 Parallel Change in Interest Rates (basis points)(1)
 
Change in NPVE
 
 
 
 

 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 
 

 
Amount
 
 
Percentage
 
 
Amount
 
 
Percentage
 
 
Board Limit
 

 +300 
 
$
(18.7
) 
 
 
(0.5
)% 
 
$
(88.5
) 
 
 
(2.7
)% 
 
 
(25
)% 

 +200 
 
$
120.2
 
 
 
3.4
% 
 
$
(37.0
) 
 
 
(1.1
)% 
 
 
(15
)% 

 +100 
 
$
153.6
 
 
 
4.4
% 
 
$
8.0
 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
(10
)% 

 -100 
 
$
(324.0
) 
 
 
(9.2
)% 
 
$
(147.5
) 
 
 
(4.4
)% 
 
 
(10
)% 
  


(1) 
 On December 31, 2011 and 2010, the yield for the three-month treasury bill was 0.02% and 0.12%, respectively. As a 
result, the requirements of the NPV Model were temporarily modified, resulting in the removal of the minus 200 and 300 basis points
 scenarios for the periods ended December 30, 2011 and 2010. 
Under criteria published by its regulator, E*TRADE Bank’s overall interest rate risk exposure at December 31, 2011 was
characterized as “minimum.” We actively manage interest rate risk positions. As interest rates change, we will re-adjust our strategy and mix of assets, liabilities and derivatives to optimize our position. For example, a 100 basis points
increase in rates may not result in a change in value as indicated above. The ALCO monitors E*TRADE Bank’s interest rate risk position. 
Other Market Risk  Equity
Security Risk  Equity securities risk is the risk of potential loss from investing in public and private equity securities.
Our market maker facilitates customer orders and carries equity security positions on a daily basis. From time to time, we may carry large positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. As of December 31,
2011, we held securities with a fair value of $53.6 million in long positions and $48.3 million in short positions, for a net exposure of $5.3 million. 
  91 


Table of Contents


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  The management of E*TRADE Financial Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. E*TRADE Financial Corporation’s internal control
system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company’s management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company’s board
of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP and includes those policies and
procedures that:   


 
•
 
 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company;   


 
•
 
 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and   


 
•
 
 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of the inherent limitations of internal
control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.  E*TRADE Financial Corporation’s management assessed the effectiveness of its internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in “Internal Control—Integrated
Framework.” Based on management’s assessment, management believes as of December 31, 2011, that E*TRADE Financial Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. 
E*TRADE Financial Corporation’s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has issued an audit
report regarding E*TRADE Financial Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting. The report of Deloitte & Touche LLP appears on the next page. 
  92 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
E*TRADE Financial Corporation  New York, New
York  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of E*TRADE Financial Corporation and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the
internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control–Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 of the Company and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph
regarding the Company’s adoption of new accounting guidance.  /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP 
 




McLean, Virginia

February 23, 2012

  93 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
E*TRADE Financial Corporation  New York, New
York  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of E*TRADE Financial Corporation and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income (loss), comprehensive income (loss), shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2011. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of E*TRADE Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  As discussed in Notes 5 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the accounting guidance, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments, on
April 1, 2009.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control–Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP   




McLean, Virginia

February 23, 2012

  94 


Table of Contents
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (LOSS) 
(In thousands, except per share amounts) 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 




 Operating interest income
  
$
1,532,339
 
 
$
1,546,713
 
 
$
1,832,558
 

 Operating interest expense
  
 
(312,380
) 
 
 
(320,430
) 
 
 
(571,956
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net operating interest income
  
 
1,219,959
 
 
 
1,226,283
 
 
 
1,260,602
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commissions
  
 
436,243
 
 
 
431,000
 
 
 
547,993
 

 Fees and service charges
  
 
130,452
 
 
 
142,377
 
 
 
192,516
 

 Principal transactions
  
 
105,359
 
 
 
103,346
 
 
 
88,053
 

 Gains on loans and securities, net
  
 
120,233
 
 
 
166,212
 
 
 
169,106
 

 Other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”)
  
 
(9,190
) 
 
 
(41,510
) 
 
 
(232,139
) 

 Less: noncredit portion of OTTI recognized into (out of) other comprehensive income (loss) (before tax)
  
 
(5,717
) 
 
 
3,840
 
 
 
143,044
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net impairment
  
 
(14,907
) 
 
 
(37,670
) 
 
 
(89,095
) 

 Other revenues
  
 
39,260
 
 
 
46,327
 
 
 
47,841
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-interest income
  
 
816,640
 
 
 
851,592
 
 
 
956,414
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenue
  
 
2,036,599
 
 
 
2,077,875
 
 
 
2,217,016
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
440,614
 
 
 
779,412
 
 
 
1,498,112
 

 Operating expense:
  



 



 




 Compensation and benefits
  
 
333,646
 
 
 
325,044
 
 
 
366,232
 

 Clearing and servicing
  
 
147,052
 
 
 
147,493
 
 
 
170,711
 

 Advertising and market development
  
 
145,172
 
 
 
132,150
 
 
 
114,399
 

 FDIC insurance premiums
  
 
105,442
 
 
 
77,728
 
 
 
94,258
 

 Professional services
  
 
89,672
 
 
 
81,177
 
 
 
78,718
 

 Occupancy and equipment
  
 
68,840
 
 
 
70,915
 
 
 
78,360
 

 Communications
  
 
67,335
 
 
 
73,342
 
 
 
84,381
 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
89,583
 
 
 
87,931
 
 
 
83,337
 

 Amortization of other intangibles
  
 
26,151
 
 
 
28,475
 
 
 
29,737
 

 Facility restructuring and other exit activities
  
 
7,706
 
 
 
14,346
 
 
 
20,652
 

 Other operating expenses
  
 
154,305
 
 
 
103,976
 
 
 
122,544
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expense
  
 
1,234,904
 
 
 
1,142,577
 
 
 
1,243,329
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before other income (expense) and income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
361,081
 
 
 
155,886
 
 
 
(524,425
) 

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 




 Corporate interest income
  
 
702
 
 
 
6,188
 
 
 
860
 

 Corporate interest expense
  
 
(177,829
) 
 
 
(167,130
) 
 
 
(282,688
) 

 Gains (losses) on sales of investments, net
  
 
44
 
 
 
2,655
 
 
 
(1,714
) 

 Gains (losses) on early extinguishment of debt
  
 
3,091
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,018,848
) 

 Equity in loss of investments and venture funds
  
 
(1,759
) 
 
 
(740
) 
 
 
(8,616
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
(175,751
) 
 
 
(159,027
) 
 
 
(1,311,006
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
185,330
 
 
 
(3,141
) 
 
 
(1,835,431
) 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
28,629
 
 
 
25,331
 
 
 
(537,669
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
156,701
 
 
$
(28,472
) 
 
$
(1,297,762
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic earnings (loss) per share
  
$
0.59
 
 
$
(0.13
) 
 
$
(11.85
) 

 Diluted earnings (loss) per share
  
$
0.54
 
 
$
(0.13
) 
 
$
(11.85
) 

 Shares used in computation of per share data:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
267,291
 
 
 
211,302
 
 
 
109,544
 

 Diluted
  
 
289,822
 
 
 
211,302
 
 
 
109,544
 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 
  95 


Table of Contents
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
(In thousands, except share data) 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

ASSETS
  



 




 Cash and equivalents
  
$
2,099,839
 
 
$
2,374,346
 

 Cash and investments required to be segregated under federal or other regulations
  
 
1,275,587
 
 
 
609,510
 

 Trading securities
  
 
54,372
 
 
 
62,173
 

 Available-for-sale securities (includes securities pledged to creditors with the right to sell or repledge of $3,916,927 and
$5,621,156 at December 31, 2011 and
  



 




 2010, respectively)
  
 
15,651,493
 
 
 
14,805,677
 

 Held-to-maturity securities (fair value of $6,282,989 and $2,422,335 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively; includes
securities pledged to creditors with the right to sell or repledge of $2,092,570 and $884,214 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively)
  
 
6,079,512
 
 
 
2,462,710
 

 Margin receivables
  
 
4,826,256
 
 
 
5,120,575
 

 Loans receivable, net (net of allowance for loan losses of $822,816 and $1,031,169 at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively)
  
 
12,332,807
 
 
 
15,121,919
 

 Investment in FHLB stock
  
 
140,183
 
 
 
164,381
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
299,693
 
 
 
302,658
 

 Goodwill
  
 
1,934,232
 
 
 
1,939,976
 

 Other intangibles, net
  
 
285,805
 
 
 
325,403
 

 Other assets
  
 
2,960,673
 
 
 
3,083,673
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
47,940,452
 
 
$
46,373,001
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 Liabilities:
  



 




 Deposits
  
$
26,459,985
 
 
$
25,240,297
 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
 
5,015,499
 
 
 
5,888,249
 

 Customer payables
  
 
5,590,858
 
 
 
5,020,086
 

 FHLB advances and other borrowings
  
 
2,736,935
 
 
 
2,731,714
 

 Corporate debt
  
 
1,493,552
 
 
 
2,145,881
 

 Other liabilities
  
 
1,715,673
 
 
 
1,294,329
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
43,012,502
 
 
 
42,320,556
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and contingencies (see Note 21)
  



 








 Shareholders’ equity:
  



 




 Common stock, $0.01 par value, shares authorized: 400,000,000 at December 31,
  



 




 2011 and 2010; shares issued and outstanding: 285,368,075 and 220,840,821 at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively
  
 
2,854
 
 
 
2,208
 

 Additional paid-in-capital (“APIC”)
  
 
7,306,862
 
 
 
6,640,715
 

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(1,995,137
) 
 
 
(2,151,838
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(386,629
) 
 
 
(438,640
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
4,927,950
 
 
 
4,052,445
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
47,940,452
 
 
$
46,373,001
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 
  96 


Table of Contents
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 
(In thousands) 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net income (loss) 
  
$
156,701
 
 
$
(28,472
) 
 
$
(1,297,762
) 

 Other comprehensive income (loss) 
  



 



 




 Available-for-sale securities: 
  



 



 




 OTTI, net(1)
  
 
5,709
 
 
 
25,662
 
 
 
133,179
 

 Noncredit portion of OTTI reclassification (into) out of other comprehensive income (loss), net(2)
  
 
3,589
 
 
 
(2,320
) 
 
 
(91,246
) 

 Unrealized gains, net(3)
  
 
268,405
 
 
 
74,826
 
 
 
160,398
 

 Reclassification into earnings, net(4)
  
 
(78,060
) 
 
 
(98,408
) 
 
 
(94,743
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change from available-for-sale securities 
  
 
199,643
 
 
 
(240
) 
 
 
107,588
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flow hedging instruments: 
  



 



 




 Unrealized gains (losses), net(5)
  
 
(216,302
) 
 
 
(77,724
) 
 
 
101,886
 

 Reclassification into earnings, net(6)
  
 
66,847
 
 
 
47,774
 
 
 
37,055
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change from cash flow hedging instruments 
  
 
(149,455
) 
 
 
(29,950
) 
 
 
138,941
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Foreign currency translation gains (losses), net 
  
 
1,823
 
 
 
(4,320
) 
 
 
2,158
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss) 
  
 
52,011
 
 
 
(34,510
) 
 
 
248,687
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss) 
  
$
208,712
 
 
$
(62,982
) 
 
$
(1,049,075
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 


(1) 
 Amounts are net of benefit from income taxes of $3.5 million, $15.8 million and $80.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. 


(2) 
 Amounts are net of benefit from income taxes of $2.1 million, $1.5 million and $51.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. 


(3) 
 Amounts are net of provision for income taxes of $161.0 million, $48.7 million and $96.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. 


(4) 
 Amounts are net of provision for income taxes of $46.3 million, $60.2 million and $59.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. 


(5) 
 Amounts are net of benefit from income taxes of $133.9 million and $40.2 million for years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and net
of a provision for income taxes of $59.8 million for year ended December 31, 2009. 


(6) 
 Amounts are net of benefit from income taxes of $43.3 million, $26.4 million and $22.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively.  See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements

  97 


Table of Contents
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
(In thousands)   




























 
 
Common Stock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
AccumulatedDeficit
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 
 
TotalShareholders’Equity
 

 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
 
 
56,352
 
 
$
564
 
 
$
4,069,353
 
 
$
(845,767
) 
 
$
(632,654
) 
 
$
2,591,496
 

 Cumulative effect of the adoption of accounting guidance on April 1, 2009
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
20,163
 
 
 
(20,163
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Net loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,297,762
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,297,762
) 

 Other comprehensive income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
248,687
 
 
 
248,687
 

 Issuance of common stock
 
 
62,095
 
 
 
621
 
 
 
732,497
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
733,118
 

 Amortization of premiums on the convertible debentures
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
707,224
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
707,224
 

 Conversion of convertible debentures
 
 
69,657
 
 
 
697
 
 
 
720,233
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
720,930
 

 Exercise of stock options and related tax effects
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(9,456
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(9,456
) 

 Issuance of restricted stock, net of forfeitures and retirements to pay taxes
 
 
507
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
(3,189
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,184
) 

 Share-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
46,184
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
46,184
 

 Other
 
 
786
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
12,311
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,318
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
 
189,397
 
 
$
1,894
 
 
$
6,275,157
 
 
$
(2,123,366
) 
 
$
(404,130
) 
 
$
3,749,555
 

 Net loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(28,472
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(28,472
) 

 Other comprehensive income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(34,510
) 
 
 
(34,510
) 

 Conversion of convertible debentures
 
 
30,653
 
 
 
306
 
 
 
316,677
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
316,983
 

 Exercise of stock options and related tax effects
 
 
19
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,306
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,306
) 

 Issuance of restricted stock, net of forfeitures and retirements to pay taxes
 
 
772
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
(7,035
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7,027
) 

 Share-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25,361
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25,361
 

 Claims settlement under Section 16(b)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
35,000
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
35,000
 

 Other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(139
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(139
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
 
220,841
 
 
$
2,208
 
 
$
6,640,715
 
 
$
(2,151,838
) 
 
$
(438,640
) 
 
$
4,052,445
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 
  98 


Table of Contents
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY—(Continued) 
(In thousands)   




























 
  
Common Stock
 
  
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
AccumulatedDeficit
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 
 
TotalShareholders’Equity
 

 
  
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
 
 
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
  
 
220,841
 
  
$
2,208
 
  
$
6,640,715
 
 
$
(2,151,838
) 
 
$
(438,640
) 
 
$
4,052,445
 

 Net income
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
156,701
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
156,701
 

 Other comprehensive income
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
52,011
 
 
 
52,011
 

 Conversion of convertible debentures
  
 
63,918
 
  
 
639
 
  
 
660,307
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
660,946
 

 Exercise of stock options and related tax effects
  
 
42
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
(2,882
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,881
) 

 Issuance of restricted stock, net of forfeitures and retirements to pay taxes
  
 
567
 
  
 
6
 
  
 
(5,719
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,713
) 

 Share-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
14,456
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,456
 

 Other
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(15
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
  
 
285,368
 
  
$
2,854
 
  
$
7,306,862
 
 
$
(1,995,137
) 
 
$
(386,629
) 
 
$
4,927,950
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 
  99 


Table of Contents
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(In thousands)   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
156,701
 
 
$
(28,472
) 
 
$
(1,297,762
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Provision for loan losses
  
 
440,614
 
 
 
779,412
 
 
 
1,498,112
 

 Depreciation and amortization (including discount amortization and accretion)
  
 
340,691
 
 
 
339,085
 
 
 
345,969
 

 Net impairment, gains on loans and securities, net and (gains) losses on sales of investments, net
  
 
(105,370
) 
 
 
(131,197
) 
 
 
(78,297
) 

 Equity in loss of investments and venture funds
  
 
1,759
 
 
 
740
 
 
 
8,616
 

 (Gains) losses on early extinguishment of debt
  
 
(3,091
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,018,848
 

 Share-based compensation
  
 
14,456
 
 
 
25,361
 
 
 
46,184
 

 Deferred taxes
  
 
7,895
 
 
 
(86,199
) 
 
 
(488,689
) 

 Other
  
 
4,806
 
 
 
(8,600
) 
 
 
(4,480
) 

 Net effect of changes in assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 (Increase) decrease in cash and investments required to be segregated under federal or other regulations
  
 
(666,077
) 
 
 
823,626
 
 
 
(394,523
) 

 Decrease (increase) in margin receivables
  
 
294,319
 
 
 
(1,366,093
) 
 
 
(1,023,373
) 

 Increase in customer payables
  
 
570,772
 
 
 
136,525
 
 
 
1,346,736
 

 Proceeds from sales of loans held-for-sale
  
 
123,441
 
 
 
154,603
 
 
 
118,100
 

 Originations of loans held-for-sale
  
 
(129,654
) 
 
 
(138,043
) 
 
 
(125,650
) 

 Proceeds from sales, repayments and maturities of trading securities
  
 
1,926,439
 
 
 
998,202
 
 
 
1,229,635
 

 Purchases of trading securities
  
 
(1,909,565
) 
 
 
(1,023,089
) 
 
 
(1,207,151
) 

 Decrease (increase) in other assets
  
 
32,787
 
 
 
369,720
 
 
 
(265,797
) 

 (Decrease) increase in other liabilities
  
 
(4,968
) 
 
 
203,714
 
 
 
245,479
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
1,095,955
 
 
 
1,049,295
 
 
 
971,957
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Purchases of available-for-sale securities
  
 
(10,251,611
) 
 
 
(16,981,702
) 
 
 
(22,370,041
) 

 Proceeds from sales, maturities of and principal payments on available-for-sale securities
  
 
9,929,506
 
 
 
15,681,935
 
 
 
19,945,842
 

 Purchases of held-to-maturity securities
  
 
(4,040,208
) 
 
 
(2,626,409
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from maturities of and principal payments on held-to-maturity securities
  
 
408,674
 
 
 
160,590
 
 
 
—  
  

 Net decrease in loans receivable
  
 
2,201,838
 
 
 
2,745,200
 
 
 
3,555,843
 

 Capital expenditures for property and equipment
  
 
(89,410
) 
 
 
(82,076
) 
 
 
(86,195
) 

 Proceeds from sale of REO and repossessed assets
  
 
156,991
 
 
 
213,926
 
 
 
156,783
 

 Net cash flow from derivatives hedging assets
  
 
14,899
 
 
 
(53,604
) 
 
 
991
 

 Other
  
 
39,147
 
 
 
(130,714
) 
 
 
(5,000
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities
  
$
(1,630,174
) 
 
$
(1,072,854
) 
 
$
1,198,223
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 
  100



Table of Contents
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS-(Continued)  (In thousands)   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Net increase (decrease) in deposits
  
$
1,219,455
 
 
$
626,291
 
 
$
(539,596
) 

 Sale of deposits
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(980,549
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Net decrease in securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
 
(872,750
) 
 
 
(552,793
) 
 
 
(919,784
) 

 Advances from FHLB
  
 
2,220,000
 
 
 
2,350,000
 
 
 
3,400,000
 

 Payments on advances from FHLB
  
 
(2,250,000
) 
 
 
(2,350,000
) 
 
 
(5,000,000
) 

 Net proceeds from issuance of senior notes
  
 
427,331
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Payments on senior notes
  
 
(425,956
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
733,118
 

 Net cash flow from derivatives hedging liabilities
  
 
(41,292
) 
 
 
(218,185
) 
 
 
(161,074
) 

 Other
  
 
(17,076
) 
 
 
39,106
 
 
 
(75,061
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
259,712
 
 
 
(1,086,130
) 
 
 
(2,562,397
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of exchange rates on cash
  
 
—  
  
 
 
797
 
 
 
21,606
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Decrease in cash and equivalents
  
 
(274,507
) 
 
 
(1,108,892
) 
 
 
(370,611
) 

 Cash and equivalents, beginning of period
  
 
2,374,346
 
 
 
3,483,238
 
 
 
3,853,849
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and equivalents, end of period
  
$
2,099,839
 
 
$
2,374,346
 
 
$
3,483,238
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures:
  



 



 




 Cash paid for interest
  
$
435,776
 
 
$
425,211
 
 
$
665,027
 

 (Refund received) cash paid for income taxes
  
$
(6,606
) 
 
$
(78,734
) 
 
$
19,342
 

 Non-cash investing and financing activities:
  



 



 




 Conversion of convertible debentures to common stock
  
$
660,946
 
 
$
316,983
 
 
$
720,930
 

 Transfers from loans to other real estate owned and repossessed assets
  
$
180,964
 
 
$
314,514
 
 
$
272,306
 

 Reclassification of loans held-for-investment to loans held-for-sale
  
$
—  
  
 
$
252,627
 
 
$
389,337
 

 Transfers from loans to available-for-sale securities
  
$
—  
  
 
$
222,729
 
 
$
—  
  

 Convertible debentures issued in connection with the Debt Exchange
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
1,741,871
 

 Capitalized interest in the form of 2017 Notes
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
183,230
 

 Issuance of common stock upon acquisition
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
9,000
 

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 
  101



Table of Contents
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTE 1—ORGANIZATION, BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Organization—E*TRADE Financial Corporation is a financial services company that provides
online brokerage and related products and services primarily to individual retail investors under the brand “E*TRADE Financial.” The Company also provides investor-focused banking products, primarily sweep deposits and savings products, to
retail investors. The Company’s most significant subsidiaries are described below:   


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Bank is a federally chartered savings bank that provides investor-focused banking products to retail customers nationwide and deposit accounts
insured by the FDIC;   


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Securities LLC is a registered broker-dealer and is a wholly-owned operating subsidiary of E*TRADE Bank. It is the primary provider of
brokerage products and services to the Company’s customers.   


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Clearing LLC is the clearing firm for the Company’s brokerage subsidiaries and is a wholly-owned operating subsidiary of E*TRADE Bank. Its
main purpose is to transfer securities from one party to another; and   


 
•
 
 E*TRADE Capital Markets, LLC is a registered broker-dealer and market maker. 
Basis of Presentation—The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries as determined under the voting interest model. Entities in which the Company holds at least a 20% ownership interest or in which there are other indicators of significant influence are generally accounted
for by the equity method. Entities in which the Company holds less than a 20% ownership interest and does not have the ability to exercise significant influence are generally carried at cost. Intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in
consolidation. The Company also evaluates its continuing involvement with certain entities to determine if the Company is required to consolidate the entities under the variable interest entity model. This evaluation is based on a qualitative
assessment of whether the Company has both: 1) the power to direct matters that most significantly impact the activities of the variable interest entity; and 2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the variable
interest entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity.  Certain prior period items in these
consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. All prior periods have been adjusted to present loans held-for-sale in the other assets line item of the consolidated balance sheet. Loans
held-for-sale were previously presented in the loans, net line item. All prior periods have therefore been adjusted to present loans held-for-investment in the loans receivable, net line item. These consolidated financial statements reflect all
adjustments, which are all normal and recurring in nature, necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented.  The Company reports corporate interest income and corporate interest expense separately from operating interest income and operating interest expense. The Company believes reporting these two items
separately provides a clearer picture of the financial performance of the Company’s operations than would a presentation that combined these two items. Operating interest income and operating interest expense is generated from the operations of
the Company. Corporate debt, which is the primary source of corporate interest expense, has been issued primarily in connection with recapitalization transactions and past acquisitions. 
Similarly, the Company reports gains (losses) on sales of investments, net separately from gains on loans and securities, net. The
Company believes reporting these two items separately provides a clearer picture of the financial performance of its operations than would a presentation that combined these two items. Gains on loans

  102



Table of Contents

and securities, net are the result of activities in the Company’s operations, namely its balance sheet management segment. Gains (losses) on sales of investments, net relate to investments
of the Company at the corporate level and are not related to the ongoing business of the Company’s operating subsidiaries. 
Related Parties—As of December 31, 2011, Citadel was one of the Company’s
largest stockholders, and based upon the Company’s review of publicly available information, the Company believes Citadel owned approximately 9.6% of its outstanding common stock and none of its non-interest bearing convertible debentures. In
addition, Kenneth Griffin, President and CEO of Citadel, joined the Board of Directors on June 8, 2009 pursuant to a director nomination right granted to Citadel in 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company routed a
portion of its customer equity orders in exchange-listed options and Regulation NMS Securities to an affiliate of Citadel for order handling and execution at current market rates. Payments for these customer equity orders represented approximately
1% of the Company’s total net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Joseph M. Velli, Chairman and CEO of BNY ConvergEx Group, LLC, joined the Board of Directors in January 2010. During the year ended
December 31, 2011, the Company used BNY ConvergEx Group, LLC for clearing and transfer agent services. Payments for these services represented less than 1% of the Company’s total operating expenses for both the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Use of Estimates—The consolidated financial statements were
prepared in accordance with GAAP, which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and related notes for the periods presented. Actual results could differ from
management’s estimates. Certain significant accounting policies are noteworthy because they are based on estimates and assumptions that require complex and subjective judgments by management. Changes in these estimates or assumptions could
materially impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates in which management believes near-term changes could reasonably occur include: allowance for loan losses; estimates of effective tax rates,
deferred taxes and valuation allowances; classification and valuation of certain investments; accounting for derivative instruments; fair value measurements; and valuation of goodwill and other intangibles. 
Financial Statement Descriptions and Related Accounting Policies—Below are descriptions and accounting policies
for certain of the Company’s financial statement categories.  Cash and Equivalents—For the purpose of
reporting cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments with original or remaining maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase that are not required to be segregated under federal or other regulations to be cash and
equivalents. Cash and equivalents included $1.0 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of overnight cash deposits a portion of which the Company is required to maintain with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Cash and Investments Required to be Segregated Under Federal or Other Regulations—Cash and investments required to be
segregated under federal or other regulations consist of cash accounts and U.S. Treasuries. Certain cash balances are required to be segregated for the exclusive benefit of the Company’s brokerage customers. 
Trading Securities—Trading securities are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term
and are carried at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading securities from banking activities are included in the gains on loans and securities, net line item and are derived using the specific identification method. Realized
and unrealized gains and losses on trading securities from market making activities are included in the principal transactions line item and are also derived by the specific identification method. 
Available-for-Sale Securities—Available-for-sale securities consist of debt securities, primarily residential
mortgage-backed securities, as of December 31, 2011. Securities classified as available-for-sale are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss,

  103



Table of Contents

net of tax. Realized and unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale debt securities are computed using the specific identification method. Interest earned on available-for-sale debt
securities is included in operating interest income. Amortization or accretion of premiums and discounts are also recognized in operating interest income using the effective interest method over the life of the security. Realized gains and losses on
available-for-sale debt securities, other than OTTI, are included in the gains on loans and securities, net line item. Available-for-sale securities that have an unrealized loss (impaired securities) are evaluated for OTTI at each balance sheet
date.  Held-to-Maturity Securities—Held-to-maturity securities consist of debt securities, primarily
residential mortgage-backed securities. Held-to-maturity securities are carried at amortized cost based on the Company’s positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. Interest earned on held-to-maturity debt securities is
included in operating interest income. Amortization or accretion of premiums and discounts are also recognized in operating interest income using the effective interest method over the life of the security. Held-to-maturity securities that have an
unrecognized loss (impaired securities) are evaluated for OTTI at each balance sheet date in a manner consistent with available-for-sale debt securities.  Margin Receivables—Margin receivables represent credit extended to customers to finance their purchases of securities by borrowing against securities the customers own. Securities owned
by customers are held as collateral for amounts due on the margin receivables, the value of which is not reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. In many cases, the Company is permitted to sell or re-pledge these securities held as collateral
and use the securities to enter into securities lending transactions, to collateralize borrowings or for delivery to counterparties to cover customer short positions. The fair value of securities that the Company received as collateral in connection
with margin receivables and securities borrowing activities, where the Company is permitted to sell or re-pledge the securities, was approximately $6.8 billion and $7.1 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Of this amount,
$1.3 billion and $1.2 billion had been pledged or sold in connection with securities loans, bank borrowings and deposits with clearing organizations as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Loans Receivable, Net—Loans receivable, net consists of real estate and consumer loans that management has the intent
and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity, also known as loans held for investment. Loans held for investment are carried at amortized cost adjusted for net charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, deferred fees or costs on
originated loans and unamortized premiums or discounts on purchased loans. Deferred fees or costs on originated loans and premiums or discounts on purchased loans are recognized in operating interest income using the effective interest method over
the contractual life of the loans and are adjusted for actual prepayments. The Company’s classes of loans are one- to four-family, home equity and consumer and other loans. 
Nonperforming Loans—The Company classifies loans as nonperforming when they are no longer accruing interest, which includes
loans that are 90 days past due and TDRs that are on nonaccrual status for all classes of loans. Interest previously accrued, but not collected, is reversed against current income when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status. Interest payments
received on nonperforming loans are recognized on a cash basis in operating interest income until it is doubtful that full payment will be collected, at which point payments are applied to principal. The recognition of deferred fees or costs on
originated loans and premiums or discounts on purchased loans in operating interest income is discontinued for nonperforming loans. Nonperforming loans, excluding loans that were modified as a TDR, return to accrual status when the loan becomes less
than 90 days past due.  Loan losses are recognized when it is probable that a loss has been incurred. The Company’s
charge-off policy for both one- to four-family and home equity loans is to assess the value of the property when the loan has been delinquent for 180 days or it is in bankruptcy, regardless of whether or not the property is in foreclosure, and
charge-off the amount of the loan balance in excess of the estimated current value of the underlying property less estimated costs to sell. Closed-end consumer loans are charged-off when the loan has been delinquent for 120 days or when it is
determined that collection is not probable. 
  104



Table of Contents
Impaired Loans—A loan is impaired when it meets the definition of a TDR.
Impaired loans exclude smaller-balance homogeneous one- to four-family, home equity and consumer and other loans that have not been modified as TDRs and are collectively evaluated for impairment. 
TDRs—Modified loans in which economic concessions were granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty are considered
TDRs. Upon being classified as a TDR, such loan is categorized as an impaired loan and impairment is measured on an individual basis. Once a loan is modified as a TDR, the loan is considered impaired until maturity regardless of whether the borrower
performs under the modified terms.  The Company utilizes its own modification programs in pursuing TDRs. The various types of
economic concessions that may be granted in a TDR or trial modification typically consist of interest rate reductions, maturity date extensions, principal forgiveness or a combination of these concessions. The Company also processed minor
modifications on a number of loans through traditional collections actions taken in the normal course of servicing delinquent accounts. These actions typically result in an insignificant delay in the timing of payments; therefore, the Company does
not consider such activities to be economic concessions to borrowers.  The Company uses specialized servicers that focus on
loan modifications and pursue trial modifications for loans that are more than 180 days delinquent. Trial modifications are classified immediately as TDRs and continue to be reported as delinquent until the successful completion of the trial period,
which is typically 90 days. The loan is then classified as current and becomes a permanent modification.  Both one- to
four-family and home equity TDRs, including trial modifications, are accounted for as nonaccrual loans at the time of modification and return to accrual status after six consecutive payments are made in accordance with the modified terms. TDRs are
classified as nonperforming until six consecutive payments have been made. The Company currently does not have an active TDR program for consumer and other loans; therefore, there are no reported TDRs for consumer and other loans. 
Allowance for Loan Losses—The allowance for loan losses is management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in
the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The Company’s segments are one- to four-family, home equity and consumer and other loans. For loans that are not TDRs, the Company established a general allowance. The estimate of the allowance
for loan losses is based on a variety of quantitative and qualitative factors, including the composition and quality of the portfolio; delinquency levels and trends; current and historical charge-off and loss experience; the Company’s
historical loss mitigation experience; the condition of the real estate market and geographic concentrations within the loan portfolio; the interest rate climate; the overall availability of housing credit; and general economic conditions. The one-
to four-family and home equity loan portfolios are separated into risk segments based on key risk factors, which include but are not limited to loan type, loan acquisition channel, delinquency history, documentation type, LTV/CLTV ratio and
borrowers’ credit scores. For home equity loans in the second lien position, the original balance of the first lien loan at origination date and updated valuations on the property underlying the loan are used to calculate CLTV. Both current
CLTV and FICO scores are among the factors utilized to categorize the risk associated with loans and assign a probability assumption of future default. Based upon the segmentation, the Company utilizes historical performance data to forecast future
delinquency and default for these risk segments. The Company’s consumer and other loan portfolio is separated into risk segments by product and delinquency status. The Company utilizes historical performance data and historical recovery rates
on collateral liquidation to forecast future delinquency and loss at the product level. The general allowance for loan losses is typically equal to management’s forecast of loan losses in the twelve months following the balance sheet date.
Management believes this level is representative of probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date. 
The general allowance for loan losses also included a qualitative component to account for a variety of economic and operational factors
that are not directly considered in the quantitative loss model but are factors the Company believes may impact the level of credit losses. Examples of these economic and operational factors are changes in the level of unemployment and the limited
historical charge-off and loss experience on modified 
  105



Table of Contents

loans. The qualitative component for the consumer and other loan portfolio was 15% of the general allowance at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The qualitative component for the one- to
four-family and home equity loan portfolios increased from 15% of the general allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2010 to 35% at December 31, 2011. The total qualitative factor was $124 million as of December 31, 2011. As the
Company transitions from the OTS to the OCC, it is evaluating programs and practices that were designed in accordance with guidance from the OTS. The Company is working to align certain policies and procedures to the guidance from the OCC and has
suspended certain modification programs that will require changes. The Company increased the qualitative reserve in 2011 to reflect additional estimated losses during the period of reduced activity in our modification programs, as well as
uncertainty around certain loans modified under our previous programs.  For modified loans accounted for as TDRs, the Company
established a specific allowance. The specific allowance for TDRs factors in the historical default rate of an individual loan before being modified as a TDR in the discounted cash flow analysis in order to determine that specific loan’s
expected impairment. For both of the one- to four-family and home equity loan portfolio segments, each loan’s individual default experience is analyzed in addition to the performance observed in similar seasoned TDRs in the Company’s
overall TDR program when calculating the specific allowance. A specific allowance is established to the extent that the recorded investment exceeds the discounted cash flows of a TDR with a corresponding charge to provision for loan losses. The
specific allowance for these individually impaired loans represents the forecasted losses over the estimated remaining life of the loan, including the economic concession to the borrower. 
Investment in FHLB stock—The Company is a member of, and owns capital stock in, the FHLB system. The FHLB provides the
Company with reserve credit capacity and authorizes advances based on the security of pledged home mortgages and other assets (principally securities that are obligations of, or guaranteed by, the U.S. Government) provided the Company meets certain
creditworthiness standards. FHLB advances, included in the FHLB advances and other borrowings line item, is a wholesale funding source of E*TRADE Bank. As a condition of its membership in the FHLB, the Company is required to maintain a FHLB stock
investment. The Company accounts for its investment in FHLB stock as a cost method investment.  Property and Equipment,
Net—Property and equipment are carried at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, generally three to seven years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of their estimated useful
lives or lease terms. Buildings are depreciated over the lesser of their estimated useful lives or forty years. Land is carried at cost. An impairment loss is recognized only if the carrying amount of the long-lived asset is not recoverable and
exceeds its fair value.  The costs of internally developed software that qualify for capitalization are included in the
property and equipment, net line item. For qualifying internal-use software costs, capitalization begins when the conceptual formulation, design and testing of possible software project alternatives are complete and management authorizes and commits
to funding the project. The Company does not capitalize pilot projects and projects where it believes that future economic benefits are less than probable. Technology development costs incurred in the development and enhancement of software used in
connection with services provided by the Company that do not otherwise qualify for capitalization treatment are expensed as incurred.  Goodwill and Other Intangibles, Net—Goodwill and other intangibles, net represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired through the
Company’s business combinations. The Company tests goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment on at least an annual basis or when events or changes indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company evaluates
the remaining useful lives of intangible assets with finite lives each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. 
Real Estate Owned and Repossessed Assets—Included in the other assets line item in the consolidated balance sheet is
real estate acquired through foreclosure and repossessed consumer assets. Real estate properties acquired through foreclosures, commonly referred to as REO, and repossessed assets are carried at the lower of carrying value or fair value, less
estimated selling costs. 
  106



Table of Contents
Income Taxes—Deferred income taxes are recorded when revenues and
expenses are recognized in different periods for financial statement purposes than for tax return purposes. Deferred tax asset or liability account balances are calculated at the balance sheet date using current tax laws and rates in effect.
Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a portion or all of a given deferred tax asset will not be realized. Income tax expense (benefit) includes (i) deferred tax
expense (benefit), which generally represents the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability balance during the year plus any change in valuation allowances and (ii) current tax expense (benefit), which represents the amount of tax
currently payable to or receivable from a taxing authority. Uncertain tax positions are only recognized to the extent they satisfy the accounting for uncertain tax positions criteria included in the income taxes accounting guidance, which states
that in order to recognize an uncertain tax position it must be more likely than not that it will be sustained upon examination. For uncertain tax positions, tax benefit is recognized for cases in which it is more than fifty percent likely of being
sustained on ultimate settlement. See Note 15—Income Taxes.  Securities Sold Under Agreements to
Repurchase—Securities sold under agreements to repurchase the same or similar securities, also known as repurchase agreements, are collateralized by fixed- and variable-rate mortgage-backed securities or investment grade securities.
Repurchase agreements are treated as secured borrowings for financial statement purposes and the obligations to repurchase securities sold are therefore reflected as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. 
Customer Payables—Customer payables to customers and non-customers represent credit balances in customer accounts
arising from deposits of funds and sales of securities and other funds pending completion of securities transactions. Customer payables primarily represent customer cash contained within the Company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries. The Company
pays interest on certain customer payables balances.  Comprehensive Income (Loss)—The Company’s
comprehensive income (loss) is composed of net income (loss), noncredit portion of OTTI on debt securities, unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, the effective portion of the unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives in cash flow hedge
relationships and foreign currency translation gains (losses), net of reclassification adjustments and related tax. 
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—The Company enters into derivative transactions primarily to protect
against interest rate risk on the value of certain assets, liabilities and future cash flows. Each derivative is recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value as a freestanding asset or liability. For financial statement purposes, the
Company’s policy is to not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments and fair value amounts related to collateral arrangements under master netting arrangements. 
Accounting for derivatives differs significantly depending on whether a derivative is designated as a hedge and, if designated as a
hedge, the type of hedge designation. Derivative instruments designated in hedging relationships that mitigate the exposure to the variability in expected future cash flows or other forecasted transactions are considered cash flow hedges. Derivative
instruments in hedging relationships that mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of assets or liabilities are considered fair value hedges. The Company formally documents at inception all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged
items and the risk management objective and strategy for each hedge transaction. Cash flow and fair value hedge ineffectiveness is re-measured on a quarterly basis and is included in the gains on loans and securities, net line item in the
consolidated statement of income (loss). Cash flows from derivative instruments in hedging relationships are classified in the same category on the consolidated statement of cash flows as the cash flows from the items being hedged. The Company also
recognizes certain contracts and commitments as derivatives when the characteristics of those contracts and commitments meet the definition of a derivative. Gains and losses on derivatives that are not held as accounting hedges are recognized in the
gains on loans and securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss). See Note 7—Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  Fair Value—Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. The Company determines 
  107



Table of Contents

the fair value for its financial instruments and for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the consolidated financial statements on a
recurring basis. In addition, the Company determines the fair value for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on a nonrecurring basis as required during impairment testing or by other accounting guidance. See Note 4—Fair Value
Disclosures.  Operating Interest Income—Operating interest income is recognized as earned through holding
interest-earning assets, such as real estate loans, mortgage-backed securities, margin receivables, investment securities, securities borrowed balances and cash and equivalents, including segregated cash and investments. Operating interest income
also includes the impact of the Company’s derivative transactions related to interest-earning assets.  Operating
Interest Expense—Operating interest expense is recognized as incurred primarily through holding interest-bearing liabilities, including repurchase agreements, FHLB advances and other borrowings, customer cash and deposits and securities
loaned balances. Operating interest expense also includes the impact of the Company’s derivative transactions related to interest-bearing liabilities.  Commissions—Commissions are derived primarily from the Company’s customers and are impacted by both trade types and trade mix. Commissions from securities transactions are
recognized on a trade-date basis.  Fees and Service Charges—Fees and service charges primarily consist of
order flow revenue. Fees and service charges also include 12b-1 fees, advisor management fee revenue, reorganization fees and foreign exchange margin revenue. Order flow revenue is accrued in the same period in which the related securities
transactions are completed or related services are rendered.  Principal Transactions—Principal transactions
consist of revenue from market making activities. Market making activities are the matching of buyers and sellers of securities and include transactions where the Company will purchase securities for its balance sheet with the intention of resale to
transact the customer’s buy or sell order. Principal transactions earned on the Company’s market making activities are recorded on a trade date basis.  Gains on Loans and Securities, Net—Gains on loans and securities, net includes gains or losses resulting from the sale of available-for-sale securities; gains or losses on trading
securities; gains or losses resulting from sales of loans; hedge ineffectiveness; and gains or losses on derivative instruments that are not accounted for as hedging instruments. Gains or losses resulting from the sale of available-for-sale
securities are generally recognized at the trade-date, based on the difference between the anticipated proceeds and the amortized cost of the specific securities sold.  Other-than-temporary Impairment (“OTTI”)—The Company considers OTTI for an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity debt security to have occurred if one of the following
conditions are met: the Company intends to sell the impaired debt security; it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the impaired debt security before recovery of the security’s amortized cost basis; or the Company
does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. The Company’s evaluation of whether it intends to sell an impaired debt security considers whether management has decided to sell the security as of the balance sheet
date. The Company’s evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell an impaired debt security before recovery of the security’s amortized cost basis considers the likelihood of sales that involve
legal, regulatory or operational requirements. For impaired debt securities that the Company does not intend to sell and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell before recovery of the security’s amortized cost
basis, the Company uses both qualitative and quantitative valuation measures to evaluate whether the Company expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. The Company considers all available information relevant to the
collectability of the security, including credit enhancements, security structure, vintage, credit ratings and other relevant collateral characteristics. 
  108



Table of Contents
If the Company intends to sell an impaired debt security or if it is more likely than not
that the Company will be required to sell the impaired debt security before recovery of the security’s amortized cost basis, the Company will recognize OTTI in earnings equal to the entire difference between the security’s amortized cost
basis and the security’s fair value. If the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the impaired debt security before recovery of its amortized cost
basis but the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security, the Company will separate OTTI into two components: 1) the amount related to credit loss, recognized in earnings; and 2) the noncredit portion of OTTI,
recognized through other comprehensive income (loss).  Net Impairment—Net impairment includes OTTI net of
the noncredit portion of OTTI on debt securities recognized through other comprehensive income (loss) (before tax). 
Other Revenues—Other revenues primarily consists of fees from software and services for managing equity compensation
plans. Other revenues also includes revenue ancillary to the Company’s customer transactions and income from the cash surrender value of BOLI. Employee stock option management fees are recognized in accordance with applicable accounting
guidance, including software revenue recognition accounting guidance.  Share-Based Payments—The Company
records share-based payments expense in accordance with the stock compensation accounting guidance. The Company records compensation cost at the grant date fair value of a share-based payment award over the vesting period less estimated forfeitures.
The underlying assumptions to these fair value calculations are discussed in Note 18—Employee Share-Based Payments and Other Benefits. Additionally, the Company elected to use the alternative transition method provided for calculating the tax
effects of share-based compensation pursuant to the stock compensation accounting guidance. Share-based payments expense is included in the compensation and benefits line item. 
Advertising and Market Development—Advertising production costs are expensed when the initial advertisement is run.
 Net Income (Loss) Per Share—Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by
the weighted-average common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock.
The Company excludes from the calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share stock options, unvested restricted stock awards and units and shares related to convertible debentures that would have been anti-dilutive. 
New Accounting and Disclosure Guidance—Below is the new accounting and disclosure guidance that relates to
activities in which the Company is engaged.  Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements 
In January 2010, the FASB amended the disclosure guidance related to fair value measurements. The amended disclosure guidance requires new
fair value measurement disclosures and clarifies existing fair value measurement disclosure requirements. The amended disclosure guidance requiring separate presentation of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements of Level 3 instruments was
effective January 1, 2011 for the Company. The Company’s disclosures about fair value measurements reflect the adoption of the amended disclosure guidance in Note 4—Fair Value Disclosures. 
Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses 
In July 2010, the FASB amended the disclosure guidance for financing receivables and the allowance for credit losses. The amendments
require new and amended disclosures about nonaccrual and past due financing 
  109



Table of Contents

receivables; the allowance for credit losses related to financing receivables; impaired loans (individually evaluated for impairment); credit quality information; and modifications. The amended
disclosure guidance related to non-TDRs was effective January 1, 2011 for the Company, and the amended disclosure guidance related to TDRs was effective July 1, 2011 for the Company. The Company’s disclosures reflect the adoption of
the amended disclosure guidance related to TDR and non-TDR information in Note 6—Loans Receivable, Net.  A Creditor’s
Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring  In April 2011, the FASB amended the accounting
guidance for TDRs. The amendments clarify the guidance on a creditor’s evaluation of whether it has granted a concession and whether a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. The amended accounting guidance was effective July 1,
2011 for the Company, and was applied retrospectively to January 1, 2011 for the Company. The adoption of the amended accounting guidance did not affect the Company’s conclusion that the Company’s modification of loans through
traditional collections actions taken in the normal course of servicing delinquent accounts that typically result in an insignificant delay in the timing of payments are not TDRs. The adoption of the amended accounting guidance did not have a
material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Reconsideration of Effective Control for
Repurchase Agreements  In April 2011, the FASB amended the accounting guidance for repurchase agreements. The amendments
change the effective control assessment by removing the criterion that required the transferor to have the ability to repurchase or redeem financial assets on substantially the agreed terms, even in the event of default by the transferee, and the
collateral maintenance guidance related to that criterion. The amended accounting guidance became effective January 1, 2012 for the Company, and will be applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing transactions that occur
on or after the effective date. The adoption of the amended accounting guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs  In May 2011, the FASB amended the accounting and disclosure guidance related to fair value measurements. The amended guidance will result in common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in
GAAP and IFRSs. The amended guidance changes the wording used to describe certain requirements in GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurement. The amended accounting guidance became effective
January 1, 2012 for the Company, and will be applied prospectively. The adoption of the amended guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 
Presentation of Comprehensive Income  In June 2011, the FASB amended the presentation guidance for comprehensive income. Among other presentation changes, the amended guidance provides the option to present the total of comprehensive income,
the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amended presentation guidance became effective
January 1, 2012 for the Company.  Testing Goodwill for Impairment 
In September 2011, the FASB amended the guidance on testing goodwill for impairment. The amended guidance provides an option to perform a
qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is impaired as a basis for determining if further testing of goodwill for 
  110



Table of Contents

impairment is necessary. The amended guidance became effective January 1, 2012 for the Company. The adoption of the amended accounting guidance did not have a material impact on the
Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities
 In December 2011, the FASB amended the disclosure guidance about offsetting assets and liabilities. The amended disclosure
guidance will enable users of the Company’s financial statements to evaluate the effect or potential effect of netting arrangements on the Company’s financial position. This includes the effect or potential effect of rights of setoff
between recognized assets and recognized liabilities within the scope of amended disclosure guidance, such as derivative instruments and other financial instruments. The amended disclosure guidance will be effective for annual and interim periods
beginning on January 1, 2013 for the Company and will be applied retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. The adoption of the amended accounting guidance will not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition,
results of operations, or cash flows. 
NOTE 2—FACILITY RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER EXIT ACTIVITIES 
Restructuring and other exit activities liabilities are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance
sheet. The following table summarizes the changes in the facility restructuring and other exit activities liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands): 
 












  
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Beginning balance 
  
$
10,371
 
 
$
18,529
 

 Facility restructuring and other exit activities 
  
 
7,706
 
 
 
14,346
 

 Cash payments 
  
 
(9,920
) 
 
 
(18,591
) 

 Non-cash charges (1)
  
 
(4,096
) 
 
 
(3,913
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total facility restructuring and other exit activities liabilities 
  
$
4,061
 
 
$
10,371
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Non-cash charges primarily relate to fixed assets that were written off related to the restructuring or exit activity. 
The following table summarizes the expense recognized by the Company as facility restructuring and other exit activities for the periods
presented (dollars in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Restructuring of international brokerage business
  
$
1,060
 
  
$
6,846
 
  
$
15,655
 

 Other facility restructuring and exit activities
  
 
6,646
 
  
 
7,500
 
  
 
4,997
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total facility restructuring and other exit activities
  
$
7,706
 
  
$
14,346
 
  
$
20,652
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Facility restructuring and other exit activities expenses are not allocated to the Company’s
operating segments but are reported as a component of the corporate/other category within the Company’s segment information.  Exit
of Non-Core Operations  International Brokerage Business 
In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company decided to restructure its international brokerage business, which provided trading products
and services through two primary channels: 1) cross-border trading, where customers residing outside of the U.S. trade in U.S. securities; and 2) local market trading, where customers residing outside

  111



Table of Contents

of the U.S. trade in non-U.S. securities. The Company exited local market trading as it is not a key strategic component of the Company’s global brokerage product offering. This exit did not
qualify for discontinued operations accounting as the Company has significant continuing involvement with cross-border trading in the remaining international brokerage business. 
The Company entered into agreements to sell the local market trading operations in Germany, the Nordic region and the United Kingdom. The
sale of the local market trading operations in Germany was completed in December 2009. The Company closed the sales of the local market trading operations in the Nordic region and United Kingdom in April 2010 and recognized a gain of $3.0 million.
 As a result of the international brokerage business restructuring, the Company recognized $1.1 million, $6.8 million and
$15.7 million in expense during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These costs included $1.3 million, $2.8 million and $7.4 million in severance costs for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. These costs also included an adjustment of $0.2 million offsetting asset write-off and other restructuring costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 along with $4.0 million and $8.3 million in asset write-off and other
restructuring costs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company expects to incur charges in future periods as it periodically evaluates the estimates made in connection with this activity; however, the Company does
not expect these charges to be significant. 
NOTE 3—OPERATING INTEREST INCOME AND OPERATING INTEREST EXPENSE 
The following table shows the components of operating interest income and operating interest expense (dollars in
thousands):   
















  
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011 
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Operating interest income: 
  



 



 




 Loans 
  
$
692,127
 
 
$
879,013
 
 
$
1,138,116
 

 Available-for-sale securities 
  
 
421,304
 
 
 
386,347
 
 
 
471,087
 

 Margin receivables 
  
 
221,717
 
 
 
200,260
 
 
 
138,510
 

 Held-to-maturity securities 
  
 
136,953
 
 
 
35,930
 
 
 
—  
  

 Securities borrowed and other 
  
 
60,238
 
 
 
45,163
 
 
 
84,845
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating interest income(1)
  
 
1,532,339
 
 
 
1,546,713
 
 
 
1,832,558
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  



 



 




 Operating interest expense: 
  



 



 




 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
  
 
(153,079
) 
 
 
(129,574
) 
 
 
(200,121
) 

 FHLB advances and other borrowings 
  
 
(106,201
) 
 
 
(119,344
) 
 
 
(148,739
) 

 Deposits 
  
 
(42,879
) 
 
 
(62,828
) 
 
 
(211,788
) 

 Customer payables and other 
  
 
(10,221
) 
 
 
(8,684
) 
 
 
(11,308
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating interest expense(2)
  
 
(312,380
) 
 
 
(320,430
) 
 
 
(571,956
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net operating interest income
  
 
$1,219,959
 
 
$
1,226,283
 
 
$
1,260,602
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Operating interest income reflects $(10.3) million, $21.9 million, and $53.9 million in income on hedges that qualify for hedge accounting for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 


(2) 
 Operating interest expense reflects $136.7 million, $122.4 million, and $136.3 million in expense on hedges that qualify for hedge accounting for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
  112



Table of Contents
NOTE 4—FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES 
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In determining fair value, the Company may use various valuation approaches, including market, income and/or cost approaches. The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to
maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant. Accordingly, even when market assumptions are
not readily available, the Company’s own assumptions reflect those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. The fair value measurement accounting guidance describes the following three levels
used to classify fair value measurements:   


 
•
 
 Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
 


 
•
 
 Level 2—Quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.
  


 
•
 
 Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 
The availability of observable inputs can vary and in certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels
of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to
a fair value measurement requires judgment and consideration of factors specific to the asset or liability.  Recurring Fair Value
Measurement Techniques  U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Debentures 
The fair value measurements of U.S. Treasury securities were classified as Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy as they were based on
quoted market prices in active markets. The fair value measurements of agency debentures were classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as they were based on quoted market prices that were derived from assumptions observable in the
marketplace.  Residential Mortgage-backed Securities  The Company’s residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio was comprised of agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs, which represented the majority of the portfolio, and non-agency CMOs.
Agency mortgage- backed securities and CMOs are guaranteed by U.S. government sponsored and federal agencies. The majority of the Company’s non-agency CMOs were backed by first lien mortgages and were below investment grade or non-rated as of
December 31, 2011. The weighted average coupon rates for the residential mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2011 are shown in the following table:   








 
  
Weighted AverageCoupon Rate
 

 Agency mortgage-backed securities
  
 
3.45 
% 

 Agency CMOs
  
 
3.48 
% 

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
3.90 
% 
 The fair value of agency mortgage-backed securities was determined using market and income approaches
with quoted market prices, recent market transactions and spread data for similar instruments. The fair value of agency CMOs was determined using market and income approaches with the Company’s own trading activities for identical or similar
instruments. Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs were categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
  113



Table of Contents
Non-agency CMOs were valued using market and income approaches with market observable data,
including recent market transactions when available. The Company also utilized a pricing service to corroborate the market observability of the Company’s inputs used in the fair value measurements. The valuations of non-agency CMOs reflect the
Company’s best estimate of what market participants would consider in pricing the financial instruments. The following table presents additional information about the underlying loans and significant inputs for the valuation of non-agency CMOs
as of December 31, 2011:   












  
  
WeightedAverage 
 
 
Range
 

 Underlying loans: 
  



 




 Coupon rate 
  
 
3.99
% 
 
 
2.43%-6.83%
  

 Maturity (years) 
  
 
23
  
 
 
11-26    
  

 Significant inputs: 
  



 




 Yield 
  
 
4
% 
 
 
2% -18%
  

 Default rate(1)
  
 
14
% 
 
 
1%-65%
  

 Loss severity 
  
 
43
% 
 
 
0%-96%
  

 Prepayment rate 
  
 
7
% 
 
 
0%-37%
  
  


(1) 
 The default rate reflects the implied rate necessary to equate market price to the book yield given the market credit assumption.
 The Company considers the price transparency for these financial instruments to be a key determinant of the
degree of judgment involved in determining the fair value. As of December 31, 2011, the majority of the Company’s non-agency CMOs were categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
Other Debt Securities 
The fair value measurements of other agency debt securities were determined using market and income approaches along with the
Company’s own trading activities for identical or similar instruments and were categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The Company’s municipal bonds are revenue bonds issued by state and other local government agencies. The
valuation of corporate bonds is impacted by the credit worthiness of the corporate issuer. The majority of the Company’s municipal bonds and corporate bonds were rated investment grade as of December 31, 2011. These securities were valued
using a market approach with pricing service valuations corroborated by recent market transactions for identical or similar bonds. Municipal bonds and corporate bonds were categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
Derivative Instruments 
Interest rate swap and option contracts were valued with an income approach using pricing models that are commonly used by the financial
services industry. The market observable inputs used in the pricing models include the swap curve, the volatility surface, and prime or overnight indexed swap basis from a financial data provider. The Company does not consider these models to
involve significant judgment on the part of management and corroborated the fair value measurements with counterparty valuations. The Company’s derivative instruments were categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The consideration of
credit risk, the Company’s or the counterparty’s, did not result in an adjustment to the valuation of its derivative instruments in the periods presented.  Securities Owned and Securities Sold, Not Yet Purchased  Securities
transactions entered into by broker-dealer subsidiaries are included in trading securities and securities sold, not yet purchased in the Company’s fair value disclosures. For equity securities, the Company’s definition of actively traded
is based on average daily volume and other market trading statistics. The fair value of the majority of securities owned and securities sold, not yet purchased was determined using listed or quoted market prices and were mostly categorized in Level
1 of the fair value hierarchy. 
  114



Table of Contents
Recurring Fair Value Measurements 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below (dollars in thousands): 
 




















  
  
Level 1 
 
 
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Fair Value
 

 December 31, 2011: 
  



 



  



  




 Assets 
  



 



  



  




 Trading securities 
  
$
53,025
 
 
$
1,347
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
54,372
 

 Available-for-sale securities: 
  



 



  



  




 Residential mortgage-backed securities: 
  



 



  



  




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
13,965,712
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
13,965,712
 

 Non-agency CMOs 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
244,447
 
  
 
97,106
 
  
 
341,553
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total residential mortgage-backed securities 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
14,210,159
 
  
 
97,106
 
  
 
14,307,265
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Investment securities: 
  



 



  



  




 Agency debentures 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
731,280
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
731,280
 

 Other agency debt securities 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
554,194
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
554,194
 

 Municipal bonds 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
41,069
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
41,069
 

 Corporate bonds 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
17,685
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17,685
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investment securities 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,344,228
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,344,228
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
15,554,387
 
  
 
97,106
 
  
 
15,651,493
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other assets: 
  



 



  



  




 Derivative assets(1)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
66,534
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
66,534
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis(2)
  
$
53,025
  
 
$
15,622,268
 
  
$
97,106
 
  
$
15,772,399
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities 
  



 



  



  




 Derivative liabilities(1)
  
$
—  
  
 
$
358,203
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
358,203
 

 Securities sold, not yet purchased 
  
 
48,185
 
 
 
86
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
48,271
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis(2)
  
$
48,185
 
 
$
358,289
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
406,474
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 All derivative assets and liabilities are interest rate contracts. Information related to derivative instruments is detailed in Note 7—Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. 


(2) 
 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis represented 33% and less than 1% of the Company’s total assets and total
liabilities, respectively. 
  115



Table of Contents
 




















  
  
Level 1 
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Fair Value
 

 December 31, 2010: 
  



  



  



  




 Assets 
  



  



  



  




 Trading securities 
  
$
55,630
 
  
$
5,913
 
  
$
630
 
  
$
62,173
 

 Available-for-sale securities: 
  



  



  



  




 Residential mortgage-backed securities: 
  



  



  



  




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12,898,114
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12,898,114
 

 Non-agency CMOs 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
200,169
 
  
 
195,220
 
  
 
395,389
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total residential mortgage-backed securities 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
13,098,283
 
  
 
195,220
 
  
 
13,293,503
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Investment securities: 
  



  



  



  




 Agency debentures 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,269,552
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,269,552
 

 Other agency debt securities 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
187,462
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
187,462
 

 Municipal bonds 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
37,331
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
37,331
 

 Corporate bonds 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17,829
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17,829
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investment securities 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,512,174
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,512,174
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
14,610,457
 
  
 
195,220
 
  
 
14,805,677
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other assets: 
  



  



  



  




 Derivative assets(1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
248,911
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
248,911
 

 Deposits with clearing organizations(2)
  
 
38,000
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
38,000
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis 
  
 
38,000
 
  
 
248,911
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
286,911
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis(3)
  
$
93,630
 
  
$
14,865,281
 
  
$
195,850
 
  
$
15,154,761
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities 
  



  



  



  




 Derivative liabilities(1)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
106,863
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
106,863
 

 Securities sold, not yet purchased 
  
 
51,889
 
  
 
2,846
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
54,735
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis(3)
  
$
51,889
 
  
$
109,709
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
161,598
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 All derivative assets and liabilities are interest rate contracts. Information related to derivative instruments is detailed in Note 7—Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. 


(2) 
 Represents U.S. Treasury securities held by a broker-dealer subsidiary. 


(3) 
 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis represented 33% and less than 1% of the Company’s total assets and total
liabilities, respectively.  The following tables present additional information about Level 3 assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (dollars in thousands):   












  
  
 
 
 
Available-for-saleSecurities
 

 
  
TradingSecurities
 
 
Non-agencyCMOs
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010 
  
$
630
  
 
$
195,220
 

 Realized and unrealized gains (losses):(1)
  



 




 Included in earnings(2)
  
 
(1,560
) 
 
 
(7,898
) 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
16,089
 

 Sales 
  
 
(6,299
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Settlements 
  
 
(1,700
) 
 
 
(28,205
) 

 Transfers in to Level 3(4)
  
 
8,929
 
 
 
254,637
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(4)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(332,737
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011 
  
$
—  
  
 
$
97,106
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The majority of total realized and unrealized gains (losses) were related to instruments held at December 31, 2011. 


(2) 
 The majority of realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings are reported in the net impairment line item. 


(3) 
 All realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in other comprehensive income (loss) are reported in the net change from available-for-sale
securities line item. 


(4) 
 The Company’s transfers in and out of Level 3 are as of the beginning of the reporting period on a quarterly basis. 
  116



Table of Contents
 




















  
  
 
 
 
Available-for-sale Securities
 

 
  
TradingSecurities
 
 
AgencyMortgage-backedSecurities andCMOs
 
 
Non-agencyCMOs
 
 
CorporateInvestments
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009 
  
$
1,491
 
 
$
17,972
 
 
$
234,629
 
 
$
173
 

 Realized and unrealized gains (losses):(1)
  



 



 



 




 Included in earnings(2)
  
 
(938
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(35,799
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
80,695
 
 
 
(9
) 

 Purchases, sales, other settlements and issuances, net 
  
 
77
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(32,520
) 
 
 
(119
) 

 Transfers in to Level 3(4)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
139,088
 
 
 
—  
  

 Transfers out of Level 3(4)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(17,972
) 
 
 
(190,873
) 
 
 
(45
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010 
  
$
630
 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
195,220
 
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The majority of total realized and unrealized gains (losses) were related to instruments held at December 31, 2010. 


(2) 
 The majority of realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings are reported in the net impairment line item. 


(3) 
 The majority of realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in other comprehensive income (loss) are reported in the net change from
available-for-sale securities line item. 


(4) 
 The Company’s transfers in and out of Level 3 are as of the beginning of the reporting period on a quarterly basis. 
 
























  
  
 
 
 
Available-for-sale Securities
 
  
 
 

 
  
TradingSecurities 
 
 
AgencyMortgage-backedSecuritiesandCMOs
 
 
Non-agencyCMOs
 
 
CorporateInvestments
 
  
DerivativeInstruments,Net(5)

 

 Balance, December 31, 2008 
  
$
33,406
 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
304,661
 
 
$
170
 
  
$
(492
) 

 Realized and unrealized gains (losses):(1)
  



 



 



 



  




 Included in earnings(2)
  
 
2,016
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(86,215
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
492 
  

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)(3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(783
) 
 
 
102,346
 
 
 
3
 
  
 
—  
  

 Purchases, sales, other settlements and issuances, net 
  
 
(37,377
) 
 
 
4
 
 
 
(84,050
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Transfers in and/or (out) of Level 3(4)
  
 
3,446
 
 
 
18,751
 
 
 
(2,113
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009 
  
$
1,491
 
 
$
17,972
 
 
$
234,629
 
 
$
173
 
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The majority of total realized and unrealized gains (losses) were related to instruments held at December 31, 2009. 


(2) 
 The majority of realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings are reported in the net impairment line item. 


(3) 
 The majority of realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in other comprehensive income (loss) are reported in the net change from
available-for-sale securities line item. 


(4) 
 The Company’s transfers in and out of Level 3 are as of the beginning of the reporting period on a quarterly basis. 


(5) 
 Represents derivative assets net of derivative liabilities for presentation purposes only. 
Level 3 Assets and Liabilities  Level 3 assets and liabilities included instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the
determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. While the Company’s fair value estimates of Level 3 instruments utilized observable inputs where available, the valuation included significant management
judgment in determining the relevance and reliability of market information considered. 
  117



Table of Contents
The Company’s transfers of certain CMOs in and out of Level 3 are generally driven by
changes in price transparency for the securities. Financial instruments for which actively quoted prices or pricing parameters are available will have a higher degree of price transparency than financial instruments that are thinly traded or not
quoted. As of December 31, 2011, less than 1% of the Company’s total assets and none of its total liabilities represented instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis categorized as Level 3. 
Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements  The Company records certain other assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis: 1) one- to four-family and home equity loans in which the amount of the loan balance in excess of the estimated current
value of the property less estimated costs to sell has been charged-off; and 2) real estate acquired through foreclosure that is carried at the lower of the property’s carrying value or fair value, less estimated selling costs. The following
table presents the fair value of assets prior to deducting estimated selling costs that were carried on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and for which a nonrecurring fair value measurement was recorded during the
period (dollars in thousands):   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 One- to four-family
  
$
823,338
 
  
$
880,044
 

 Home equity
  
 
61,163
 
  
 
61,940
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans receivable measured at fair value
  
$
884,501
 
  
$
941,984
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 REO measured at fair value
  
$
81,505
 
  
$
140,029
 
 Loans that have been delinquent for 180 days and are charged off based on the estimated current value of
the underlying property less estimated selling costs remain classified as nonperforming loans until they complete the foreclosure process and become REO. Property valuations for one- to four-family and home equity loans are based on the most recent
“as is” property valuation data available, which may include appraisals, automated valuation models, prices for identical or similar properties, broker price opinions or home price indices. The Company obtains property valuation data
quarterly. If the valuation data obtained is significantly different from the valuation previously received, the Company orders additional property valuation data to corroborate or update the valuation. Property valuations for real estate acquired
through foreclosure are based on the lowest value of the most recent property valuation data available, which may include appraisals, listing prices or offer prices. These fair value measurements were classified as Level 3 of the fair value
hierarchy as all of the valuations included Level 3 inputs that were significant to the estimate of fair value.  Subsequent to
the recording of an initial fair value measurement, these loans continue to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, utilizing the estimated value of the underlying property less estimated selling costs, which is updated on a quarterly
basis. If the value of the underlying property has declined, an additional charge-off is recorded. If the value of the underlying property has increased, previously charged-off amounts are not recovered. These loans continue to be reported as
nonperforming loans unless they meet the requirements for being reported as performing loans.  The following table presents
the losses associated with the assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in thousands): 
 
















  
  
Year Ended December 31, 
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009 (1)
 

 One- to four-family
  
$
221,717
 
  
$
291,351
 
  
 
N/A 
  

 Home equity
  
 
112,426
 
  
 
152,386
 
  
 
N/A 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total losses on loans receivable measured at fair value
  
$
334,143
 
  
$
443,737
 
  
$
556,685
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Losses on REO measured at fair value
  
$
27,582
 
  
$
41,203
 
  
$
56,460
  
  


(1) 
 Certain disclosures are not presented for periods prior to the adoption date as the amended fair value measurement disclosure guidance for certain
items was not adopted by the Company until January 1, 2010. 
  118



Table of Contents
Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
The fair value measurements accounting guidance also requires the disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments not otherwise
disclosed above. Different market assumptions and estimation methodologies could significantly affect fair value amounts. The fair value of financial instruments, not otherwise disclosed above, whose fair value approximates carrying value is
summarized as follows:   


 
•
 
 Cash and equivalents, cash and investments required to be segregated, margin receivables and customer payables—Fair value is estimated
to be carrying value.   


 
•
 
 Investment in FHLB stock—FHLB stock is carried at cost, which is considered to be a reasonable estimate of fair value.
 Financial instruments whose fair values were different from their carrying values are summarized below
(dollars in thousands):   




















  
  
December 31, 2011 
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Carrying Value
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Carrying Value
 
  
Fair Value
 

 Assets 
  



  



  



  




 Held-to-maturity securities 
  
$
6,079,512
 
  
$
6,282,989
 
  
$
2,462,710
 
  
$
2,422,335
 

 Loans receivable, net(1)
  
$
12,332,807
 
  
$
11,142,297
 
  
$
15,121,919
 
  
$
13,425,922
  

 Liabilities 
  



  



  



  




 Deposits 
  
$
26,459,985
 
  
$
26,473,902
 
  
$
25,240,297
 
  
$
25,259,496
 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
$
5,015,499
 
  
$
5,075,415
 
  
$
5,888,249
 
  
$
5,955,283
 

 FHLB advances and other borrowings 
  
$
2,736,935
 
  
$
2,671,877
 
  
$
2,731,714
 
  
$
2,658,311
 

 Corporate debt 
  
$
1,493,552
 
  
$
1,760,564
 
  
$
2,145,881
 
  
$
2,855,318
 
  


(1) 
 The carrying value of loans receivable, net includes the allowance for loan losses of $822.8 million and $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively.  Held-to-maturity securities—Fair value is determined using market and
income approaches with quoted market prices, recent market transactions and spread data for similar instruments for agency mortgage-backed securities. The fair value of agency CMOs and other agency debt securities is determined using market and
income approaches with the Company’s own trading activities for identical or similar instruments. The fair value of agency debentures is based on quoted market prices that were derived from assumptions observable in the marketplace. 
Loans receivable, net—Fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow model. Loans are differentiated based on their
individual portfolio characteristics, such as product classification, loan category, pricing features and remaining maturity. Assumptions for expected losses, prepayments and discount rates are adjusted to reflect the individual characteristics of
the loans, such as credit risk, coupon, term, and payment characteristics, as well as the secondary market conditions for these types of loans. There was limited or no observable market data for the home equity and one- to four-family loan
portfolios, which indicates that the market for these types of loans is considered to be inactive. Given the limited market data, these fair value measurements cannot be determined with precision and changes in the underlying assumptions used,
including discount rates, could significantly affect the results of current or future fair value estimates. In addition, the amount that would be realized in a forced liquidation, an actual sale or immediate settlement could be significantly lower
than both the carrying value and the estimated fair value of the portfolio.  Deposits—Fair value is the amount
payable on demand at the reporting date for sweep deposits, complete savings deposits, other money market and savings deposits and checking deposits. For certificates of deposit and brokered certificates of deposit, fair value is estimated by
discounting future cash flows at the rates currently offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities. 
  119



Table of Contents
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase—Fair value is determined by
discounting future cash flows at the rate implied for other similar instruments with similar remaining maturities.  FHLB
advances and other borrowings—Fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows at the rates currently offered for borrowings of similar remaining maturities for FHLB advances. For subordinated debentures, fair value is estimated by
discounting future cash flows at the rate implied by dealer pricing quotes. For margin collateral, overnight and other short-term borrowings and collateralized borrowings, fair value approximates carrying value. 
Corporate debt—Fair value is estimated using dealer pricing quotes. The fair value of the non-interest-bearing convertible
debentures is directly correlated to the intrinsic value of the Company’s underlying stock. As the price of the Company’s stock increases relative to the conversion price, the fair value of the convertible debentures increases. 
In the normal course of business, the Company makes various commitments to extend credit and incur contingent liabilities that are not
reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. Changes in the economy or interest rates may influence the impact that these commitments and contingencies have on the Company in the future. The Company does not estimate the fair value of those
commitments. The Company has the right to cancel these commitments in certain circumstances and has closed a significant amount of customer home equity lines of credit in recent periods. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $0.7 billion of
unfunded commitments to extend credit. Information related to such commitments and contingent liabilities is detailed in Note 21—Commitments, Contingencies and Other Regulatory Matters. 
  120



Table of Contents
NOTE 5—AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE AND HELD-TO-MATURITY SECURITIES 
The amortized cost basis and fair value of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities are shown in the
following tables (dollars in thousands):   




















 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealized /UnrecognizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealized /UnrecognizedLosses
 
 
Fair Value
 

 December 31, 2011:
  



  



  



 




 Available-for-sale securities:
  



  



  



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
  
$
13,772,134
 
  
$
203,541
 
  
$
(9,963
) 
 
$
13,965,712
 

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
422,568
 
  
 
3,331
 
  
 
(84,346
) 
 
 
341,553
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
14,194,702
 
  
 
206,872
 
  
 
(94,309
) 
 
 
14,307,265
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency debentures
  
 
743,246
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(11,966
) 
 
 
731,280
 

 Other agency debt securities
  
 
541,038
 
  
 
13,654
 
  
 
(498
) 
 
 
554,194
 

 Municipal bonds
  
 
42,325
 
  
 
261
 
  
 
(1,517
) 
 
 
41,069
 

 Corporate bonds
  
 
25,357
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(7,672
) 
 
 
17,685
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
  
 
1,351,966
 
  
 
13,915
 
  
 
(21,653
) 
 
 
1,344,228
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
15,546,668
 
  
$
220,787
 
  
$
(115,962
) 
 
$
15,651,493
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Held-to-maturity securities:
  



  



  



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
  
$
5,296,520
 
  
$
162,975
 
  
$
(1,545
) 
 
$
5,457,950
 

 Investment securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency debentures
  
 
163,412
 
  
 
5,764
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
169,176
 

 Other agency debt securities
  
 
619,580
 
  
 
36,283
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
655,863
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
  
 
782,992
 
  
 
42,047
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
825,039
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total held-to-maturity securities
  
$
6,079,512
 
  
$
205,022
 
  
$
(1,545
) 
 
$
6,282,989
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010:
  



  



  



 




 Available-for-sale securities:
  



  



  



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
  
$
13,017,814
 
  
$
71,274
 
  
$
(190,974
) 
 
$
12,898,114
 

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
490,250
 
  
 
2,885
 
  
 
(97,746
) 
 
 
395,389
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
13,508,064
 
  
 
74,159
 
  
 
(288,720
) 
 
 
13,293,503
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency debentures
  
 
1,324,464
 
  
 
3,470
 
  
 
(58,382
) 
 
 
1,269,552
 

 Other agency debt securities
  
 
187,622
 
  
 
2,880
 
  
 
(3,040
) 
 
 
187,462
 

 Municipal bonds
  
 
42,399
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(5,068
) 
 
 
37,331
 

 Corporate bonds
  
 
25,356
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(7,527
) 
 
 
17,829
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
  
 
1,579,841
 
  
 
6,350
 
  
 
(74,017
) 
 
 
1,512,174
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
15,087,905
 
  
$
80,509
 
  
$
(362,737
) 
 
$
14,805,677
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Held-to-maturity securities:
  



  



  



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
  
$
1,928,651
 
  
$
4,747
 
  
$
(36,348
) 
 
$
1,897,050
 

 Investment securities:
  



  



  



 




 Agency debentures
  
 
219,197
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(3,025
) 
 
 
216,172
 

 Other agency debt securities
  
 
314,862
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(5,749
) 
 
 
309,113
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
  
 
534,059
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(8,774
) 
 
 
525,285
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total held-to-maturity securities
  
$
2,462,710
 
  
$
4,747
 
  
$
(45,122
) 
 
$
2,422,335
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  121



Table of Contents
Contractual Maturities 
The contractual maturities of all available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities at December 31, 2011 are shown below
(dollars in thousands):   












 
  
Amortized Cost
 
  
Fair Value
 

 Available-for-sale debt securities:
  



  




 Due within one to five years
  
$
22
 
  
$
25
 

 Due within five to ten years
  
 
1,595,306
 
  
 
1,629,257
 

 Due after ten years
  
 
13,951,340
 
  
 
14,022,211
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
15,546,668
 
  
$
15,651,493
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Held-to-maturity securities:
  



  




 Due within one to five years
  
$
225,678
 
  
$
233,132
 

 Due within five to ten years
  
 
1,645,737
 
  
 
1,742,097
 

 Due after ten years
  
 
4,208,097
 
  
 
4,307,760
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total held-to-maturity securities
  
$
6,079,512
 
  
$
6,282,989
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company pledged $3.9 billion and $5.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of
available-for-sale securities and $2.1 billion and $0.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of held-to-maturity securities as collateral for federal reserves, repurchase agreements and other purposes. 
  122



Table of Contents
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Investments 
The following tables show the fair value and unrealized or unrecognized losses on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities,
aggregated by investment category, and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized or unrecognized loss position (dollars in thousands): 
 




























 
 
Less than 12 Months
 
 
12 Months or More
 
 
Total
 

 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Unrealized /UnrecognizedLosses
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Unrealized /UnrecognizedLosses
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
Unrealized /UnrecognizedLosses
 

 December 31, 2011:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Available-for-sale securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
 
$
1,314,331
 
 
$
(4,014
) 
 
$
647,144
 
 
$
(5,949
) 
 
$
1,961,475
 
 
$
(9,963
) 

 Non-agency CMOs
 
 
4,336
 
 
 
(355
) 
 
 
321,932
 
 
 
(83,991
) 
 
 
326,268
 
 
 
(84,346
) 

 Investment securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency debentures
 
 
731,280
 
 
 
(11,966
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
731,280
 
 
 
(11,966
) 

 Other agency debt securities
 
 
37,296
 
 
 
(498
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
37,296
 
 
 
(498
) 

 Municipal bonds
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
20,598
 
 
 
(1,517
) 
 
 
20,598
 
 
 
(1,517
) 

 Corporate bonds
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,685
 
 
 
(7,672
) 
 
 
17,685
 
 
 
(7,672
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total temporarily impaired available-for-sale securities
 
$
2,087,243
 
 
$
(16,833
) 
 
$
1,007,359
 
 
$
(99,129
) 
 
$
3,094,602
 
 
$
(115,962
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Held-to-maturity securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
 
$
343,340
 
 
$
(1,192
) 
 
$
42,445
 
 
$
(353
) 
 
$
385,785
 
 
$
(1,545
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total temporarily impaired held-to-maturity securities
 
$
343,340
 
 
$
(1,192
) 
 
$
42,445
 
 
$
(353
) 
 
$
385,785
 
 
$
(1,545
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Available-for-sale securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
 
$
8,204,906
 
 
$
(188,159
) 
 
$
165,478
 
 
$
(2,815
) 
 
$
8,370,384
 
 
$
(190,974
) 

 Non-agency CMOs
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
377,309
 
 
 
(97,746
) 
 
 
377,309
 
 
 
(97,746
) 

 Investment securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency debentures
 
 
877,135
 
 
 
(58,382
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
877,135
 
 
 
(58,382
) 

 Other agency debt securities
 
 
105,113
 
 
 
(3,040
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
105,113
 
 
 
(3,040
) 

 Municipal bonds
 
 
17,937
 
 
 
(2,193
) 
 
 
19,394
 
 
 
(2,875
) 
 
 
37,331
 
 
 
(5,068
) 

 Corporate bonds
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,829
 
 
 
(7,527
) 
 
 
17,829
 
 
 
(7,527
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total temporarily impaired available-for-sale securities
 
$
9,205,091
 
 
$
(251,774
) 
 
$
580,010
 
 
$
(110,963
) 
 
$
9,785,101
 
 
$
(362,737
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Held-to-maturity securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs
 
$
1,283,817
 
 
$
(36,348
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
1,283,817
 
 
$
(36,348
) 

 Investment securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency debentures
 
 
216,172
 
 
 
(3,025
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
216,172
 
 
 
(3,025
) 

 Other agency debt securities
 
 
309,113
 
 
 
(5,749
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
309,113
 
 
 
(5,749
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total temporarily impaired held-to-maturity securities
 
$
1,809,102
 
 
$
(45,122
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
1,809,102
 
 
$
(45,122
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  123



Table of Contents
The Company does not believe that any individual unrealized loss in the available-for-sale
or unrecognized loss in the held-to-maturity portfolio as of December 31, 2011 represents a credit loss. The credit loss component is the difference between the security’s amortized cost basis and the present value of its expected future
cash flows, and is recognized in earnings. The noncredit loss component is the difference between the present value of its expected future cash flows and the fair value and is recognized through other comprehensive income (loss). The Company
assessed whether it intends to sell, or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell a security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. For debt securities that are considered other-than-temporarily impaired and
that the Company does not intend to sell and will not be required to sell prior to recovery of its amortized cost basis, the Company determines the amount of the impairment that is related to credit and the amount due to all other factors.
 The majority of the unrealized or unrecognized losses on mortgage-backed securities are attributable to changes in interest
rates and a re-pricing of risk in the market. The majority of agency mortgage-backed securities and CMOs, other agency debt securities and agency debentures are AAA-rated. Municipal bonds and corporate bonds are evaluated by reviewing the
credit-worthiness of the issuer and general market conditions. The Company does not intend to sell the securities in an unrealized loss position and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the debt securities before
the anticipated recovery of its remaining amortized cost of the securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2011.  The majority of the Company’s available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolio consists of residential mortgage-backed securities. For residential mortgage-backed securities, the Company calculates
the credit portion of OTTI by comparing the present value of the expected future cash flows with the amortized cost basis of the security. The expected future cash flows are determined using the remaining contractual cash flows adjusted for future
credit losses. The estimate of expected future credit losses includes the following assumptions: 1) expected default rates based on current delinquency trends, foreclosure statistics of the underlying mortgages and loan documentation type; 2)
expected loss severity based on the underlying loan characteristics, including loan-to-value, origination vintage and geography; and 3) expected loan prepayments and principal reduction based on current experience and existing market conditions that
may impact the future rate of prepayments. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted at the interest rate used to recognize interest income on the security to arrive at the present value amount. The following table presents a
summary of the significant inputs considered for securities that were other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2011:   
















 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
WeightedAverage 
 
 
Range
 

 Default rate(1)
  
 
6 
% 
 
 
2 
% 
 
 
- 21 
% 

 Loss severity 
  
 
51 
% 
 
 
40 
% 
 
 
- 65 
% 

 Prepayment rate 
  
 
6 
% 
 
 
2 
% 
 
 
- 15 
% 
  


(1) 
 Represents the expected default rate for the next twelve months. 
The following table presents a roll-forward of the credit loss component of the amortized cost of debt securities that have noncredit
loss recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) and credit loss recognized in earnings for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009 (1)
 

 Credit loss balance, beginning of period
  
$
188,038
 
  
$
150,372
 
  
$
80,060
  

 Additions:
  



  



  




 Initial credit impairment
  
 
61
 
  
 
1,642
 
  
 
11,780
  

 Subsequent credit impairment
  
 
14,846
 
  
 
36,024
 
  
 
58,532
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Credit loss balance, end of period
  
$
202,945
 
  
$
188,038
 
  
$
150,372
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The Company adopted the amended guidance for the recognition and presentation of OTTI for debt securities on April 1, 2009.

  124



Table of Contents
Within the securities portfolio, the highest concentration of credit risk is the non-agency
CMO portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, the Company held approximately $329.9 million in amortized cost of non-agency CMO securities that had been other-than-temporarily impaired as a result of deterioration in the expected credit performance
of the underlying loans in the securities. The following table shows the components of net impairment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009 (1)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”)
  
$
(9,190
) 
 
$
(41,510
) 
 
$
(232,139
) 

 Less: noncredit portion of OTTI recognized into (out of) other comprehensive income (loss) (before tax)
  
 
(5,717
) 
 
 
3,840
 
 
 
143,044
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net impairment
  
$
(14,907
) 
 
$
(37,670
) 
 
$
(89,095
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The Company adopted the amended guidance for the recognition and presentation of OTTI for debt securities on April 1, 2009.
 Gains on Loans and Securities, Net  The detailed components of the gains on loans and securities, net line item on the consolidated statement of income (loss) are as follows (dollars in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Gains (losses) on loans, net
  
$
146
 
 
$
6,266
 
 
$
(12,496
) 

 Gains on securities, net
  



 



 




 Gains on available-for-sale securities and other investments
  
 
124,360
 
 
 
160,952
 
 
 
203,619
 

 Losses on available-for-sale securities and other investments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(187
) 
 
 
(30,441
) 

 Gains (losses) on trading securities, net
  
 
(1,883
) 
 
 
162
 
 
 
7,845
 

 Hedge ineffectiveness
  
 
(2,390
) 
 
 
(981
) 
 
 
579
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gains on securities, net
  
 
120,087
 
 
 
159,946
 
 
 
181,602
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gains on loans and securities, net
  
$
120,233
 
 
$
166,212
 
 
$
169,106
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

NOTE 6—LOANS RECEIVABLE, NET 
Loans receivable, net are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 One- to four-family
  
$
6,615,808
 
 
$
8,170,329
 

 Home equity
  
 
5,328,657
 
 
 
6,410,311
 

 Consumer and other
  
 
1,113,257
 
 
 
1,443,398
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans receivable
  
 
13,057,722
 
 
 
16,024,038
 

 Unamortized premiums, net
  
 
97,901
 
 
 
129,050
 

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
(822,816
) 
 
 
(1,031,169
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans receivable, net
  
$
12,332,807
 
 
$
15,121,919
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011, we pledged $10.0 billion and $1.0 billion of loans as collateral to the FHLB
and Federal Reserve Bank, respectively. At December 31, 2010, we pledged $12.3 billion and $1.2 billion of loans as collateral to the FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank, respectively. 
  125



Table of Contents
The following table represents the breakdown of the total recorded investment in loans
receivable and allowance for loan losses by loans that have been collectively evaluated for impairment and those that have been individually evaluated for impairment (dollars in thousands): 
 




















 
 
Recorded Investment
 
 
Allowance for LoanLosses
 

 
 
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Loans collectively evaluated for impairment
 
$
11,736,731
 
 
$
15,116,217
 
 
$
502,673
 
 
$
674,202
 

 Loans individually evaluated for impairment (TDRs)
 
 
1,418,892
 
 
 
1,036,871
 
 
 
320,143
 
 
 
356,967
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recorded investment in loans receivable
 
$
13,155,623
 
 
$
16,153,088
 
 
$
822,816
 
 
$
1,031,169
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The weighted-average remaining maturity of mortgage loans secured by one- to four-family residences was
296 and 307 months at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Additionally, all loans outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010 in the portfolio were serviced by other companies. 
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company agreed to settlements with three particular originators specific to
loans sold to the Company by those originators. One-time payments were made to the Company satisfy in full all pending and future repurchase requests with those specific originators. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the
Company applied $46 million and $25 million to the allowance for loan losses, resulting in a corresponding reduction in net charge-offs as well as provision for loan losses.  In the second quarter of 2010, the Company sold a total of $232 million of its one- to four-family loans to Fannie Mae, resulting in a gain of $6.5 million which is recorded in the gains on loans and
securities, net line item on the consolidated statement of income (loss). Of the $232 million in sales to Fannie Mae, $216 million were in the form of an agency securitization. The Company received the agency mortgaged-backed securities created from
the securitization as proceeds from the sale and classified them as available-for-sale securities on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company structured this transaction to minimize the risk associated with credit losses of the underlying loans
as Fannie Mae guarantees the payments from the resulting securities. The Company did not consolidate the agency securitization as the Company concluded that it was not the primary beneficiary under the variable interest entity model. For the
foreseeable future, the Company does not plan to securitize or sell any of the remaining one- to four-family loans in its held-for-investment portfolio.  Credit Quality  The Company tracks and reviews factors to predict
and monitor credit risk in its mortgage loan portfolio on an ongoing basis. These factors include: loan type, estimated current LTV/CLTV ratios, delinquency history, documentation type, borrowers’ current credit scores, housing prices, loan
acquisition channel, loan vintage and geographic location of the property. In economic conditions in which housing prices generally appreciate, the Company believes that loan type, LTV/CLTV ratios, documentation type and credit scores are the key
factors in determining future loan performance. In a housing market with declining home prices and less credit available for refinance, the Company believes the LTV/CLTV ratio becomes a more important factor in predicting and monitoring credit risk.
The factors are updated on at least a quarterly basis. The Company tracks and reviews delinquency status to predict and monitor credit risk in the consumer and other loan portfolio on an ongoing basis. 
The home equity loan portfolio is primarily second lien loans on residential real estate properties, which have a higher level of credit
risk than first lien mortgage loans. Approximately 14% of the home equity portfolio was in the first lien position as of December 31, 2011. The Company holds both the first and second lien positions in less than 1% of the home equity loan
portfolio. The home equity loan portfolio consists of home equity installment loans and home equity lines of credit.  Home
equity installment loans are primarily fixed rate and fixed term, fully amortizing loans that do not offer the option of an interest-only payment. Home equity lines of credit convert to amortizing loans at the end of the draw period, which ranges
from 60 months to 120 months. At December 31, 2011, the vast majority of the home 
  126



Table of Contents

equity line of credit portfolio had not converted from the interest-only draw period to an amortizing loan. In addition, approximately 79% of the home equity line of credit portfolio will not
begin amortizing until after 2014. The following table outlines when home equity lines of credit convert to amortizing for the home equity line of credit portfolio as of December 31, 2011: 
 








 Period of Conversion to Amortizing Loan
  
% of Home Equity Line of CreditPortfolio
 

 Already amortizing
  
 
7
% 

 Year ending December 31, 2012
  
 
3
% 

 Year ending December 31, 2013
  
 
4
% 

 Year ending December 31, 2014
  
 
7
% 

 After December 31, 2014
  
 
79
% 
 The following tables show the distribution of the Company’s mortgage loan
portfolios by credit quality indicator (dollars in thousands):   




















 
  
One- to Four-Family
 
 
Home Equity
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

 Current LTV/CLTV
(1)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 <=80% 
  
$
1,596,299
 
 
$
2,233,233
 
 
$
1,168,851
 
 
$
1,484,905
 

 80%-100% 
  
 
1,716,799
 
 
 
2,329,531
 
 
 
967,945
 
 
 
1,302,930
 

 100%-120% 
  
 
1,527,266
 
 
 
1,732,148
 
 
 
1,191,862
 
 
 
1,482,831
 

 >120% 
  
 
1,775,444
 
 
 
1,875,417
 
 
 
1,999,999
 
 
 
2,139,645
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable 
  
$
6,615,808
 
 
$
8,170,329
 
 
$
5,328,657
 
 
$
6,410,311
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Average estimated current LTV/CLTV (2)
  
 
106.7
% 
 
 
100.8
% 
 
 
112.1
% 
 
 
107.7
% 

 Average LTV/CLTV at loan origination (3)
  
 
71.0
% 
 
 
70.6
% 
 
 
79.2
% 
 
 
79.3
% 
  


(1) 
 Current CLTV calculations for home equity loans are based on the maximum available line for home equity lines of credit and outstanding principal
balance for home equity installment loans. Current property values are updated on a quarterly basis using the most recent property value data available to the Company. For properties in which the Company did not have an updated valuation, it
utilized home price indices to estimate the current property value. 


(2) 
 The average estimated current LTV ratio reflects the outstanding balance at the balance sheet date, divided by the estimated current value of the
underlying property. 


(3) 
 Average LTV/CLTV at loan origination calculations are based on LTV/CLTV at time of purchase for one- to four-family purchased loans and undrawn
balances for home equity loans.   




















 
  
One- to Four-Family
 
  
Home Equity
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

 Documentation Type
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Full documentation
  
$
2,845,571
 
  
$
3,556,480
 
  
$
2,699,164
 
  
$
3,201,381
 

 Low/no documentation
  
 
3,770,237
 
  
 
4,613,849
 
  
 
2,629,493
 
  
 
3,208,930
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable
  
$
6,615,808
 
  
$
8,170,329
 
  
$
5,328,657
 
  
$
6,410,311
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 
  
One- to Four-Family
 
  
Home Equity
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

 Current FICO (1)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 >=720 
  
$
3,557,576
 
  
$
4,438,443
 
  
$
2,780,163
 
  
$
3,101,814
 

 719 - 700 
  
 
585,188
 
  
 
709,635
 
  
 
497,680
 
  
 
665,741
 

 699 - 680 
  
 
448,651
 
  
 
566,256
 
  
 
408,804
 
  
 
550,756
 

 679 - 660 
  
 
385,051
 
  
 
434,775
 
  
 
325,777
 
  
 
411,709
 

 659 - 620 
  
 
525,878
 
  
 
633,983
 
  
 
447,908
 
  
 
512,528
 

 <620 
  
 
1,113,464
 
  
 
1,387,237
 
  
 
868,325
 
  
 
1,167,763
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable 
  
$
6,615,808
 
  
$
8,170,329
 
  
$
5,328,657
 
  
$
6,410,311
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 FICO scores are updated on a quarterly basis; however, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were some loans for which the updated FICO scores
were not available. The current FICO distribution as of December 31, 2011 included original FICO scores for approximately $153 million and $30 million of one- to four-family and home equity loans, respectively. The current FICO distribution as
of December 31, 2010 included original FICO scores for approximately $218 million and $168 million of one- to four-family and home equity loans, respectively. 
  127



Table of Contents
 




















 
 
One- to Four-Family
 
 
Home Equity
 

 
 
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

 Acquisition Channel 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Purchased from a third party
 
$
5,420,858
 
 
$
6,687,741
 
 
$
4,669,551
 
 
$
5,607,236
 

 Originated by the Company
 
 
1,194,950
 
 
 
1,482,588
 
 
 
659,106
 
 
 
803,075
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable
 
$
6,615,808
 
 
$
8,170,329
 
 
$
5,328,657
 
 
$
6,410,311
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 
 
One- to Four-Family
 
 
Home Equity
 

 
 
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

 Vintage Year
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 2003 and prior
 
$
239,868
 
 
$
297,639
 
 
$
302,606
 
 
$
392,112
 

 2004
 
 
620,464
 
 
 
759,307
 
 
 
472,935
 
 
 
585,729
 

 2005
 
 
1,377,748
 
 
 
1,713,400
 
 
 
1,387,044
 
 
 
1,615,736
 

 2006
 
 
2,528,558
 
 
 
3,108,280
 
 
 
2,479,969
 
 
 
2,999,072
 

 2007
 
 
1,841,097
 
 
 
2,276,632
 
 
 
674,742
 
 
 
805,045
 

 2008
 
 
8,073
 
 
 
15,071
 
 
 
11,361
 
 
 
12,617
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable
 
$
6,615,808
 
 
$
8,170,329
 
 
$
5,328,657
 
 
$
6,410,311
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 
 
One- to Four-Family
 
 
Home Equity
 

 
 
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

 Geographic Location
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 California
 
$
3,096,028
 
 
$
3,773,623
 
 
$
1,690,319
 
 
$
2,038,325
 

 New York
 
 
488,209
 
 
 
612,988
 
 
 
387,038
 
 
 
459,018
 

 Florida
 
 
458,219
 
 
 
563,412
 
 
 
377,754
 
 
 
456,029
 

 Virginia
 
 
280,772
 
 
 
338,132
 
 
 
234,140
 
 
 
277,993
 

 Other states
 
 
2,292,580
 
 
 
2,882,174
 
 
 
2,639,406
 
 
 
3,178,946
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total mortgage loans receivable
 
$
6,615,808
 
 
$
8,170,329
 
 
$
5,328,657
 
 
$
6,410,311
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Delinquent Loans  The following table shows total loans receivable by delinquency category as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands): 
 
























 
  
Current
 
  
30-89 DaysDelinquent
 
  
90-179 DaysDelinquent
 
  
180+ DaysDelinquent
 
  
Total
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 One- to four-family
  
$
5,726,745
 
  
$
294,769
 
  
 
136,238
 
  
$
458,056
 
  
$
6,615,808
 

 Home equity
  
 
5,016,568
 
  
 
154,638
 
  
 
99,657
 
  
 
57,794
 
  
 
5,328,657
 

 Consumer and other
  
 
1,091,010
 
  
 
17,715
 
  
 
4,102
 
  
 
430
 
  
 
1,113,257
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans receivable
  
$
11,834,323
 
  
$
467,122
 
  
$
239,997
 
  
$
516,280
 
  
$
13,057,722
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 December 31, 2010 
  



  



  



  



  




 One- to four-family
  
$
6,770,513
 
  
$
388,580
 
  
$
226,052
 
  
$
785,184
 
  
$
8,170,329
 

 Home equity
  
 
6,040,021
 
  
 
175,607
 
  
 
142,997
 
  
 
51,686
 
  
 
6,410,311
 

 Consumer and other
  
 
1,412,707
 
  
 
25,209
 
  
 
4,802
 
  
 
680
 
  
 
1,443,398
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans receivable
  
$
14,223,241
 
  
$
589,396
 
  
$
373,851
 
  
$
837,550
 
  
$
16,024,038
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  128



Table of Contents
Nonperforming Loans  The Company classifies loans as nonperforming when they are no longer accruing interest, which includes loans that are 90 days past due and TDRs that are on nonaccrual status for all classes of loans. If
the Company’s nonperforming loans at each year end had been performing in accordance with their terms, the Company would have recorded interest income of approximately $92.5 million, $121.5 million and $108.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. During 2011, the Company recognized $15.3 million in interest on loans that were in nonperforming status at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011 and 2010 there were no commitments to
lend additional funds to any of these borrowers.  Allowance for Loan Losses 
The following table provides a roll-forward by loan portfolio of the allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009 (dollars in thousands):   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
One- toFour- Family
 
 
HomeEquity
 
 
Consumerand Other
 
 
Total
 

 Allowance for loan losses, beginning of period
  
$
389,594
 
 
$
576,089
 
 
$
65,486
 
 
$
1,031,169
 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
132,655
 
 
 
286,396
 
 
 
21,563
 
 
 
440,614
 

 Charge-offs
  
 
(228,857
) 
 
 
(457,302
) 
 
 
(59,290
) 
 
 
(745,449
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
20,795
 
 
 
58,105
 
 
 
17,582
 
 
 
96,482
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Charge-offs, net
  
 
(208,062
) 
 
 
(399,197
) 
 
 
(41,708
) 
 
 
(648,967
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance for loan losses, end of period
  
$
314,187
 
 
$
463,288
 
 
$
45,341
 
 
$
822,816
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
One- toFour- Family
 
 
HomeEquity
 
 
Consumerand Other
 
 
Total
 

 Allowance for loan losses, beginning of period
  
$
489,887
 
 
$
620,067
 
 
$
72,784
 
 
$
1,182,738
 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
202,302
 
 
 
529,461
 
 
 
47,649
 
 
 
779,412
 

 Charge-offs
  
 
(302,595
) 
 
 
(600,035
) 
 
 
(80,359
) 
 
 
(982,989
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
—  
  
 
 
26,596
 
 
 
25,412
 
 
 
52,008
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Charge-offs, net
  
 
(302,595
) 
 
 
(573,439
) 
 
 
(54,947
) 
 
 
(930,981
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance for loan losses, end of period
  
$
389,594
 
 
$
576,089
 
 
$
65,486
 
 
$
1,031,169
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
One- toFour- Family
 
 
HomeEquity
 
 
Consumerand Other
 
 
Total
 

 Allowance for loan losses, beginning of period
  
$
185,163
 
 
$
833,835
 
 
$
61,613
 
 
$
1,080,611
 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
669,043
 
 
 
737,192
 
 
 
91,877
 
 
 
1,498,112
 

 Charge-offs
  
 
(364,319
) 
 
 
(966,259
) 
 
 
(111,609
) 
 
 
(1,442,187
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
—  
  
 
 
15,299
 
 
 
30,903
 
 
 
46,202
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Charge-offs, net
  
 
(364,319
) 
 
 
(950,960
) 
 
 
(80,706
) 
 
 
(1,395,985
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance for loan losses, end of period
  
$
489,887
 
 
$
620,067
 
 
$
72,784
 
 
$
1,182,738
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Impaired Loans—Troubled Debt Restructurings 
The Company has a loan modification program that focuses on the mitigation of potential losses in the loan portfolio. The Company
considers modifications in which it made an economic concession to a borrower 
  129



Table of Contents

experiencing financial difficulty a TDR. The various types of economic concessions that may be granted typically consist of interest rate reductions, maturity date extensions, principal
forgiveness or a combination of these concessions. Upon being classified as a TDR, such loan is categorized as an impaired loan and impairment is measured on an individual basis. Once a loan is modified as a TDR, the loan is considered impaired
until maturity regardless of whether the borrower performs under the modified terms.  Both one- to four-family and home equity
TDRs, including trial modifications, are accounted for as nonaccrual loans at the time of modification and return to accrual status after six consecutive payments are made in accordance with the modified terms. The Company currently does not have an
active TDR program for consumer and other loans; therefore, there are no reported TDRs for consumer and other loans. TDRs are classified as nonperforming until six consecutive payments have been made. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the unpaid
principal balance in one- to four-family TDRs was $968.2 million and $546.4 million, respectively. For home equity loans, the recorded investment in TDRs represents the unpaid principal balance. 
The following table shows a summary of the Company’s recorded investment in TDRs that were on accrual and non-accrual status, in
addition to the recorded investment of TDRs as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands):   
























  
  
 
 
  
Nonaccrual TDRs
 
  
 
 

 
  
Accrual 
TDRs(1)
 
  
Current(2)
 
  
30-89 DaysDelinquent
 
  
90+ DaysDelinquent
 
  
RecordedInvestment in TDRs
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 One- to four-family
  
$
516,314 
  
  
$
250,989 
  
  
$
88,195
 
  
$
117,455
 
  
$
972,953
 

 Home equity
  
 
279,031 
  
  
 
72,578 
  
  
 
51,433
 
  
 
42,897
 
  
 
445,939
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
795,345 
  
  
$
323,567 
  
  
$
139,628
 
  
$
160,352
 
  
$
1,418,892
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010 
  



  



  



  



  




 One- to four-family
  
$
229,605 
  
  
$
190,597 
  
  
$
55,447
 
  
$
72,893
 
  
$
548,542
 

 Home equity
  
 
279,315 
  
  
 
109,355 
  
  
 
56,742
 
  
 
42,917
 
  
 
488,329
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
508,920 
  
  
$
299,952 
  
  
$
112,189
 
  
$
115,810
 
  
$
1,036,871
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Represents TDRs that are current and have made six or more consecutive payments. 


(2) 
 Represents current TDRs that have not yet made six consecutive payments. 
The following table shows the average recorded investment and interest income recognized both on a cash and accrual basis for the
Company’s TDRs during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 (dollars in thousands):   




























 
  
Average Recorded Investment
 
  
Interest Income Recognized
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 One- to four-family
  
$
770,943
 
  
$
399,306
 
  
$
117,635
 
  
$
27,034
 
  
$
13,498
 
  
$
5,487
 

 Home equity
  
 
455,422
 
  
 
460,892
 
  
 
192,202
 
  
 
9,981
 
  
 
5,209
 
  
 
1,309
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,226,365
 
  
$
860,198
 
  
$
309,837
 
  
$
37,015
 
  
$
18,707
 
  
$
6,796
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  130



Table of Contents
Included in the allowance for loan losses was a specific allowance of $320.1 million, $357.0
million, and $193.6 million that was established for TDRs at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The specific allowance for these individually impaired loans represents the forecasted losses over the estimated remaining life of the
loan, including the economic concession to the borrower. The following table shows detailed information related to the Company’s loans that were modified in a TDR as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands): 
 




























  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
RecordedInvestment inTDRs
 
  
SpecificValuationAllowance
 
  
Net Investmentin TDRs
 
  
RecordedInvestment inTDRs
 
  
SpecificValuationAllowance
 
  
Net Investmentin TDRs
 

 With a recorded allowance: 
  



  



  



  



  



  




 One- to four-family 
  
$
557,297
 
  
$
101,188
 
  
$
456,109
 
  
$
385,266
 
  
$
84,492
 
  
$
300,774
 

 Home equity 
  
$
424,834
 
  
$
218,955
 
  
$
205,879
 
  
$
479,745
 
  
$
272,475
 
  
$
207,270
 

 Without a recorded allowance: (1)
  



  



  



  



  



  




 One- to four-family 
  
$
415,656
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
415,656
 
  
$
163,276
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
163,276
 

 Home equity 
  
$
21,105
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
21,105
 
  
$
8,584
 
  
$
—  
  
  
$
8,584
 

 Total: 
  



  



  



  



  



  




 One- to four-family 
  
$
972,953
 
  
$
101,188
 
  
$
871,765
 
  
$
548,542
 
  
$
84,492
 
  
$
464,050
 

 Home equity 
  
$
445,939
 
  
$
218,955
 
  
$
226,984
 
  
$
488,329
 
  
$
272,475
 
  
$
215,854
 
  


(1) 
 The TDRs without a recorded specific valuation allowance represents loans where the discounted cash flow analysis is equal to or exceeds the recorded
investment in the loan.  The vast majority of the Company’s TDRs include an interest rate reduction in
combination with another type of concession. The Company prioritizes the interest rate reduction modifications in combination with the following modification categories: principal forgiven, principal deferred and re-age/extension/capitalization of
accrued interest. Each class is mutually exclusive in that if a TDR had an interest rate reduction with principal forgiven and an extension, the TDR would only show up in the principal forgiven column in the table below. The following tables provide
the number of loans, post-modification balances immediately after being modified as a TDR by major class of modification, and the financial impact of modifications for loans that were modified as a TDR during the year ended December 31, 2011
(dollars in thousands):   
































 
  
 
 
  
Interest Rate Reduction
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
Number ofLoans
 
  
PrincipalForgiven
 
  
PrincipalDeferred
 
  
Re-age/Extension/InterestCapitalization
 
  
Other
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 One- to four-family
  
 
1,177
 
  
$
29,343
 
  
$
78,582
 
  
$
337,604
 
  
$
25,354
 
  
$
25,253
 
  
$
496,136
 

 Home equity
  
 
1,452
 
  
 
317
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
24,531
 
  
 
98,873
 
  
 
2,245
 
  
 
125,966
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
2,629
 
  
$
29,660
 
  
$
78,582
 
  
$
362,135
 
  
$
124,227
 
  
$
27,498
 
  
$
622,102
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
















 
  
Financial Impact
 

 
  
PrincipalForgiven
 
  
Pre-TDR WeightedAverage Interest Rate
 
 
Post-TDR WeightedAverage Interest Rate
 

 One- to four-family
  
$
9,308
 
  
 
6.1 
% 
 
 
2.6 
% 

 Home equity
  
 
646
 
  
 
4.7 
% 
 
 
1.8 
% 


  
  
  
 
  



 




 Total
  
$
9,954
 
  



 





  
  
  
 
  



 




  131



Table of Contents
The Company considers TDRs that become 30 days past due to have experienced a payment
default. The following table shows the recorded investment of TDRs at December 31, 2011 that experienced a payment default within 12 months after the modification for the year ended December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands): 
 












  
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

  
  
Number ofLoans
 
  
RecordedInvestment
 

 One- to four-family(1)
  
 
310
 
  
$
126,172
 

 Home equity(2)
  
 
866
 
  
 
65,331
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total 
  
 
1176
 
  
$
191,503
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 As of December 31, 2011, $34.1 million of the recorded investment in one- to four-family loans that had a payment default in the trailing 12
months were classified as current. 


(2) 
 As of December 31, 2011, $17.2 million of the recorded investment in home equity loans that had a payment default in the trailing 12 months were
classified as current.  The Company evaluates the re-delinquency rates in order to monitor TDR performance.
More recent TDR vintages have lower re-delinquency rates, which demonstrate the improving trend of TDR performance. The Company also monitors the average re-delinquency rates for TDRs twelve months after the modification occurred, which are based on
cumulative performance since the modification program began:   












 
  
One- tofour-family
 
 
Homeequity
 

 December 31, 2011
  
 
29 
% 
 
 
42 
% 

 September 30, 2011
  
 
28 
% 
 
 
42 
% 

 June 30, 2011
  
 
31 
% 
 
 
43 
% 

 March 31, 2011
  
 
36 
% 
 
 
44 
% 

 December 31, 2010
  
 
42 
% 
 
 
45 
% 

  132



Table of Contents
NOTE 7—ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 
The Company enters into derivative transactions primarily to protect against interest rate risk on the value of certain
assets, liabilities and future cash flows. Cash flow hedges, which include a combination of interest rate swaps and purchased options, including caps and floors, are used primarily to reduce the variability of future cash flows associated with
existing variable-rate assets and liabilities and forecasted issuances of liabilities. Fair value hedges, which include interest rate swaps, forward-starting swaps and swaptions, are used to offset exposure to changes in value of certain fixed-rate
assets and liabilities. The Company also recognizes certain contracts and commitments as derivatives when the characteristics of those contracts and commitments meet the definition of a derivative. Each derivative is recorded on the consolidated
balance sheet at fair value as a freestanding asset or liability. The following table summarizes the fair value amounts of derivatives designated as hedging instruments reported in the consolidated balance sheet (dollars in thousands): 
 




















  
  
 
 
  
Fair Value 
 

 
  
Notional 
 
  
Asset(1)
 
 
Liability(2)
 
 
Net(3)
 

 December 31, 2011 
  



  



 



 




 Interest rate contracts: 
  



  



 



 




 Cash flow hedges: 
  



  



 



 




 Purchased options 
  
 
$2,625,000
 
  
$
33,959
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
33,959
  

 Pay-fixed rate swaps 
  
 
2,165,000
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(281,071
) 
 
 
(281,071
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cash flow hedges 
  
 
4,790,000
 
  
 
33,959
  
 
 
(281,071
) 
 
 
(247,112
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value hedges: 
  



  



 



 




 Pay-fixed rate swaps 
  
 
1,093,860
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(77,132
)  
 
 
(77,132
)  

 Receive-fixed rate swaps 
  
 
725,950
 
  
 
32,575
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
32,575
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fair value hedges 
  
 
1,819,810
 
  
 
32,575
  
 
 
(77,132
)  
 
 
(44,557
)  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments(4)
  
 
$6,609,810
 
  
$
66,534
  
 
$
(358,203
) 
 
$
(291,669
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010 
  



  



 



 




 Interest rate contracts: 
  



  



 



 




 Cash flow hedges: 
  



  



 



 




 Purchased options 
  
 
$4,230,000
 
  
$
123,561
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
123,561
  

 Pay-fixed rate swaps 
  
 
1,925,000
 
  
 
15,314
  
 
 
(87,494
)  
 
 
(72,180
)  

 Purchased forward-starting swaps 
  
 
200,000
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(581
)  
 
 
(581
)  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cash flow hedges 
  
 
6,355,000
 
  
 
138,875
  
 
 
(88,075
)  
 
 
50,800
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value hedges: 
  



  



 



 




 Pay-fixed rate swaps 
  
 
1,156,561
 
  
 
63,404
  
 
 
(689
)  
 
 
62,715
  

 Purchased swaptions 
  
 
1,495,000
 
  
 
46,632
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
46,632
  

 Receive-fixed rate swaps 
  
 
725,950
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,099
)  
 
 
(18,099
)  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fair value hedges 
  
 
3,377,511
 
  
 
110,036
  
 
 
(18,788
)  
 
 
91,248
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments(4)
  
 
$9,732,511
 
  
$
248,911
  
 
$
(106,863
) 
 
$
142,048
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Reflected in the other assets line item on the consolidated balance sheet. 


(2) 
 Reflected in the other liabilities line item on the consolidated balance sheet. 


(3) 
 Represents derivative assets net of derivative liabilities for disclosure purposes only. 


(4) 
 All derivatives were designated as hedging instruments as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
  133



Table of Contents
Cash Flow Hedges  The effective portion of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments that hedge cash flows is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax in the consolidated
balance sheet, for both active and discontinued hedges. Amounts are included in net operating interest income as a yield adjustment in the same period the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of changes in fair
value of the derivative instrument, which is equal to the excess of the cumulative change in the fair value of the actual derivative over the cumulative change in the fair value of a hypothetical derivative which is created to match the exact terms
of the underlying instruments being hedged, is reported in the gains on loans and securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss).  If it becomes probable that a hedged forecasted transaction will not occur, amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the specific hedging instruments would be immediately
reclassified into the gains on loans and securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss). If hedge accounting is discontinued because a derivative instrument is sold, terminated or otherwise de-designated, amounts included
in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the specific hedging instrument continue to be reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the forecasted transaction affects earnings. 
The future issuances of liabilities, including repurchase agreements, are largely dependent on the market demand and liquidity in the
wholesale borrowings market. As of December 31, 2011, the Company believes the forecasted issuance of all debt in cash flow hedge relationships is probable. However, unexpected changes in market conditions in future periods could impact the
ability to issue this debt. The Company believes the forecasted issuance of debt in the form of repurchase agreements is most susceptible to an unexpected change in market conditions. 
The following table summarizes the effect of interest rate contracts designated and qualifying as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges
on accumulated other comprehensive loss and on the consolidated statement of income (loss) (dollars in thousands):   
















 
  
For the Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Gains (losses) on derivatives recognized in OCI (effective portion), net of tax
  
$
(216,302
) 
 
$
(77,724
) 
 
$
101,886
 

 Losses reclassified from AOCI into earnings (effective portion), net of tax
  
$
66,847
 
 
$
47,774
 
 
$
37,055
 

 Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness gains (losses)(1)
  
$
(491
) 
 
$
(265
) 
 
$
579
 
  


(1) 
 The cash flow hedge ineffectiveness is reflected in the gains on loans and securities, net line item on the statement of consolidated income (loss).
 During the upcoming twelve months, the Company expects to include a pre-tax amount of approximately
$66.8 million of net unrealized losses that are currently reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss in net operating interest income as a yield adjustment in the same periods in which the related items affect earnings. The maximum
length of time over which transactions are hedged is 11 years.  The following table shows the balance in accumulated other
comprehensive loss attributable to active and discontinued cash flow hedges (dollars in thousands):   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss balance (net of tax) related to:
  



 




 Discontinued cash flow hedges
  
$
(279,091
) 
 
$
(271,595
) 

 Active cash flow hedges
  
 
(178,862
) 
 
 
(36,903
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cash flow hedges
  
$
(457,953
) 
 
$
(308,498
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  134



Table of Contents
The following table shows the balance in accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable
to cash flow hedges by type of hedged item (dollars in thousands):   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Repurchase agreements
  
$
(595,202
) 
 
$
(424,509
) 

 FHLB advances
  
 
(154,082
) 
 
 
(111,170
) 

 Home equity lines of credit
  
 
15,772
 
 
 
42,199
 

 Other
  
 
(655
) 
 
 
(628
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total balance of cash flow hedges before tax
  
 
(734,167
) 
 
 
(494,108
) 

 Tax benefit
  
 
276,214
 
 
 
185,610
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total balance of cash flow hedges, net of tax
  
$
(457,953
) 
 
$
(308,498
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Fair Value Hedges  Fair value hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument and the fair value of the asset or liability being hedged on the consolidated balance sheet. Changes in the
fair value of both the derivatives and the underlying assets or liabilities are recognized in the gains on loans and securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss). To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, the changes
in the fair values will not offset and the difference, or hedge ineffectiveness, is reflected in the gains on loans and securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss). 
Hedge accounting is discontinued for fair value hedges if a derivative instrument is sold, terminated or otherwise de-designated. If fair
value hedge accounting is discontinued, the previously hedged item is no longer adjusted for changes in fair value through the consolidated statement of income (loss) and the cumulative net gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability at the time
of de-designation is amortized to interest income or interest expense using the effective interest method over the expected remaining life of the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments after de-designation of fair value
hedge accounting are recorded in the gains on loans and securities, net line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss).  The following table summarizes the effect of interest rate contracts designated and qualifying as hedging instruments in fair value hedges and related hedged items on the consolidated statement of income
(loss) (dollars in thousands):   




























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 
 

 
  
2011 
 
 
2010 
 

 
  
HedgingInstrument
 
 
HedgedItem
 
 
HedgeIneffectiveness(1)

 
 
HedgingInstrument
 
 
HedgedItem
 
 
HedgeIneffectiveness(1)

 

 U.S. Treasury securities and agency debentures
  
$
(144,968
) 
 
$
142,242
 
 
$
(2,726
) 
 
$
55,743
 
 
$
(57,816
) 
 
$
(2,073
) 

 Agency mortgage-backed securities
  
 
(51,557
) 
 
 
48,835
 
 
 
(2,722
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 FHLB advances 
  
 
52,658
 
 
 
(49,109
) 
 
 
3,549 
  
 
 
(18,099
) 
 
 
19,456
 
 
 
1,357
  

 Corporate debt 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,714
) 
 
 
1,714
 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gains (losses) included in earnings
  
$
(143,867
) 
 
$
141,968
 
 
$
(1,899
) 
 
$
35,930
 
 
$
(36,646
) 
 
$
(716
)  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Reflected in the gains on loans and securities, net line item on the consolidated statement of income (loss). 
  135



Table of Contents
Credit Risk  Impact on Fair Value Measurements  Credit risk is an element of the
recurring fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities, including derivative instruments. Credit risk is managed by limiting activity to approved counterparties and setting aggregate exposure limits for each approved counterparty. The
Company also monitors collateral requirements on derivative instruments through credit support agreements, which reduce risk by permitting the netting of transactions with the same counterparty upon occurrence of certain events. 
The Company considered the impact of credit risk on the fair value measurement for derivative instruments, particularly those in net
liability positions to counterparties, to be mitigated by the enforcement of credit support agreements, and the collateral requirements therein. The Company pledged approximately $445.9 million of its mortgage-backed securities as collateral related
to its derivative contracts in net liability positions to counterparties as of December 31, 2011.  The Company’s
credit risk analysis for derivative instruments also considered whether the cost to mitigate the credit loss exposure on derivative instruments in net asset positions would have resulted in material adjustments to the valuations. During the year
ended December 31, 2011, the consideration of counterparty credit risk did not result in an adjustment to the valuation of the Company’s derivative instruments.  Impact on Liquidity  In the normal course of business, collateral
requirements contained in the Company’s derivative instruments are enforced by the Company and its counterparties. Upon enforcement of the collateral requirements, the amount of collateral requested is typically based on the net fair value of
all derivative instruments with the counterparty; that is derivative assets net of derivative liabilities at the counterparty level. If the Company were to be in violation of certain provisions of the derivative instruments, the counterparties to
the derivative instruments could request payment or collateralization on derivative instruments. The Company expects such requests would be based on the fair value of derivative assets net of derivative liabilities at the counterparty level. The
fair value of derivative instruments in net liability positions at the counterparty level was $309.0 million as of December 31, 2011. The fair value of the Company’s mortgage-backed and investment securities pledged as collateral related
to derivative contracts in net liability positions to counterparties, $445.9 million as of December 31, 2011, exceeded derivative instruments in net liability positions at the counterparty level by $136.9 million. 
NOTE 8—PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET 
Property and equipment, net consists of the following (dollars in thousands): 
 




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
GrossAmount
 
  
AccumulatedDepreciationandAmortization
 
 
NetAmount
 
  
GrossAmount
 
  
AccumulatedDepreciationandAmortization
 
 
NetAmount
 

 Software
  
$
461,691
 
  
$
(296,529
) 
 
$
165,162
 
  
$
500,747
 
  
$
(337,864
) 
 
$
162,883
 

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
102,133
 
  
 
(65,694
) 
 
 
36,439
 
  
 
98,308
 
  
 
(58,477
) 
 
 
39,831
 

 Equipment
  
 
92,030
 
  
 
(54,252
) 
 
 
37,778
 
  
 
155,978
 
  
 
(119,577
) 
 
 
36,401
 

 Buildings
  
 
71,927
 
  
 
(19,866
) 
 
 
52,061
 
  
 
71,927
 
  
 
(17,811
) 
 
 
54,116
 

 Furniture and fixtures
  
 
23,534
 
  
 
(18,708
) 
 
 
4,826
 
  
 
24,753
 
  
 
(18,753
) 
 
 
6,000
 

 Land
  
 
3,427
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,427
 
  
 
3,427
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,427
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
754,742
 
  
$
(455,049
) 
 
$
299,693
 
  
$
855,140
 
  
$
(552,482
) 
 
$
302,658
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  136



Table of Contents
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment was $89.6 million,
$87.9 million and $83.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Software includes
capitalized internally developed software costs. These costs were $54.8 million, $54.6 million and $59.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Completed projects are carried at cost and are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of four years. Amortization for the capitalized amounts was $54.2 million, $48.3 million and $39.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Also included
in software at December 31, 2011 is $48.1 million of internally developed software in the process of development for which amortization has not begun. 
NOTE 9—GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES, NET 
The following table discloses the changes in the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill, which is all assigned
to the trading and investing segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):   








 
  
Trading & InvestingGoodwill
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
$
1,952,326
 

 Purchase price legal settlement and other
  
 
(12,350
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,939,976
 

 Write off of goodwill related to exit activities
  
 
(5,744
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
1,934,232
 


  
  
  
 
 No goodwill was assigned to reporting units within the balance sheet management segment for the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. As of December 31, 2011, there were no accumulated impairment losses related to the trading and investment segment. The Company’s accumulated impairment losses related to its goodwill, which all
occurred in the balance sheet management segment, from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2011 were $101.2 million, which reduced the goodwill balance to zero during the year ended December 31, 2007. 
Other intangible assets with finite lives, which are primarily amortized on an accelerated basis, consist of the following (dollars in
thousands):   
























 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Weighted AverageOriginalUseful Life(Years)
 
  
Weighted AverageRemainingUseful Life(Years)
 
  
Gross Amount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net Amount
 

 Customer lists
  
 
21
 
  
 
14
 
  
$
496,624
 
  
$
(210,819
) 
 
$
285,805
 




 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Weighted AverageOriginal UsefulLife (Years)
 
  
Weighted AverageRemaining UsefulLife (Years)
 
  
Gross Amount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net Amount
 

 Customer lists
  
 
21
 
  
 
15
 
  
$
514,624
 
  
$
(190,214
) 
 
$
324,410
 

 Other
  
 
19
 
  
 
17
 
  
 
1,450
 
  
 
(457
) 
 
 
993
 


  



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other intangible assets
  



  



  
$
516,074
 
  
$
(190,671
) 
 
$
325,403
 


  



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  137



Table of Contents
Assuming no future impairments of these assets or additional acquisitions or dispositions,
annual amortization expense will be as follows (dollars in thousands):   








 Years ending December 31,
  




 2012
  
$
25,183
 

 2013
  
 
24,269
 

 2014
  
 
23,244
 

 2015
  
 
21,764
 

 2016
  
 
21,109
 

 Thereafter
  
 
170,236
 


  
  
  
 

 Total future amortization expense
  
$
285,805
 


  
  
  
 
 Amortization of other intangibles was $26.2 million, $28.5 million, and $29.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
NOTE 10—OTHER ASSETS 
Other assets consist of the following (dollars in thousands): 
 












  
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets, net 
  
$
1,578,704
 
  
$
1,473,594
 

 Bank owned life insurance policy (1)
  
 
287,129
 
  
 
279,928
 

 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 
  
 
266,045
 
  
 
306,211
 

 Accrued interest receivable 
  
 
151,932
 
  
 
169,548
 

 Prepaid FDIC insurance premiums 
  
 
90,658
 
  
 
192,880
 

 Real estate owned and repossessed assets 
  
 
87,615
 
  
 
133,501
 

 Brokerage operational related receivables 
  
 
69,524
 
  
 
13,272
 

 Derivative assets 
  
 
66,534
 
  
 
248,911
 

 Securities sold collateral not delivered 
  
 
65,815
 
  
 
—  
  

 Third party loan servicing receivable 
  
 
40,964
 
  
 
50,077
 

 Other investments 
  
 
40,317
 
  
 
44,854
 

 Other prepaids 
  
 
33,359
 
  
 
29,080
 

 Loans held-for-sale 
  
 
11,713
 
  
 
5,471
 

 Other 
  
 
170,364
 
  
 
136,346
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other assets 
  
$
2,960,673
 
  
$
3,083,673
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Represents the cash surrender value. 
NOTE 11—DEPOSITS 
Deposits are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands): 
 




















  
  
Amount
 
  
Weighted-Average Rate
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Sweep deposits (1)
  
$
18,618,954
 
  
$
16,139,585
 
  
 
0.08 
% 
 
 
0.08 
% 

 Complete savings deposits 
  
 
5,720,758
 
  
 
6,683,631
 
  
 
0.15 
% 
 
 
0.30 
% 

 Other money market and savings deposits 
  
 
1,033,254
 
  
 
1,092,949
 
  
 
0.15 
% 
 
 
0.24 
% 

 Checking deposits 
  
 
863,310
 
  
 
825,561
 
  
 
0.10 
% 
 
 
0.10 
% 

 Certificates of deposit 
  
 
190,483
 
  
 
407,091
 
  
 
2.59 
% 
 
 
2.62 
% 

 Brokered certificates of deposit 
  
 
33,226
 
  
 
91,480
 
  
 
5.42 
% 
 
 
4.52 
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 




 Total deposits 
  
$
26,459,985
 
  
$
25,240,297
 
  
 
0.12 
% 
 
 
0.20 
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 



  


(1) 
 A sweep product transfers brokerage customer balances to banking subsidiaries, which hold these funds as customer deposits in FDIC insured demand
deposit and money market deposit accounts. 
  138



Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $89.2 million and $67.7 million in
non-interest bearing deposits. The Company sold approximately $1 billion of savings accounts to Discover Financial Services during the year ended December 31, 2010.  At December 31, 2011, scheduled maturities of certificates of deposit and brokered certificates of deposit were as follows (dollars in thousands): 
 








 Years ending December 31,
  




 2012
  
$
140,375
 

 2013
  
 
29,706
 

 2014
  
 
12,113
 

 2015
  
 
16,836
 

 2016
  
 
5,471
 

 Thereafter
  
 
20,328
 


  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
224,829
 

 Unamortized discount, net
  
 
(1,120
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total certificates of deposit and brokered certificates of deposit
  
$
223,709
 


  
  
  
 
 Scheduled maturities of certificates of deposit with denominations greater than or equal to $100,000, and
greater than or equal to $250,000, which is the FDIC deposit insurance coverage limit, were as follows (dollars in thousands):   




















 
  
>= $100,000
 
  
>= $250,000
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Three months or less
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Three through six months
  
 
4,490
 
  
 
19,309
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,991
 

 Six through twelve months
  
 
22,683
 
  
 
30,007
 
  
 
2,105
 
  
 
2,540
 

 Over twelve months
  
 
9,702
 
  
 
28,584
 
  
 
1,450
 
  
 
2,419
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total certificates of deposit
  
$
36,875
 
  
$
77,900
 
  
$
3,555
 
  
$
6,950
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  139



Table of Contents
NOTE 12—SECURITIES SOLD UNDER AGREEMENTS TO REPURCHASE AND FHLB
ADVANCES AND OTHER BORROWINGS 
Other borrowings, including maturities, at December 31, 2011 and other borrowings at December 31, 2010 are
shown below (dollars in thousands):   
























  
  
 
 
 
FHLB Advances andOther Borrowings
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
RepurchaseAgreements 
(1)
 
 
FHLBAdvances
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 
  
WeightedAverageInterest Rate
 

 Years Ending December 31,
  



 



  



  



  




 2012
  
$
3,181,394
  
 
$
820,000
 
  
$
5,318
 
  
$
4,006,712
 
  
 
0.55 
% 

 2013
  
 
934,105
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
1,280
 
  
 
935,385
 
  
 
0.72 
% 

 2014
  
 
200,000
  
 
 
320,000
 
  
 
32
 
  
 
520,032
 
  
 
4.72 
% 

 2015
  
 
200,000
  
 
 
483,600
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
683,600
 
  
 
3.31 
% 

 2016
  
 
200,000
  
 
 
250,000
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
450,000
 
  
 
4.24 
% 

 Thereafter
  
 
300,000
  
 
 
400,000
 
  
 
427,610
 
  
 
1,127,610
 
  
 
3.47 
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Subtotal
  
 
5,015,499
  
 
 
2,273,600
 
  
 
434,240
 
  
 
7,723,339
 
  
 
1.74 
% 

 Fair value hedge adjustments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
29,095
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
29,095
 
  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total other borrowings at December 31, 2011
  
$
5,015,499 
  
 
$
2,302,695
 
  
$
434,240
 
  
$
7,752,434
 
  
 
1.74 
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total other borrowings at December 31, 2010
  
$
5,888,249 
  
 
$
2,284,144
 
  
$
447,570
 
  
$
8,619,963
 
  
 
1.41 
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  


(1) 
 The maximum amount at any month end for repurchase agreements was $5.9 billion and $6.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase 
Repurchase agreements are collateralized by fixed- and variable-rate mortgage-backed securities or investment grade securities. The
brokers retain possession of the securities collateralizing the repurchase agreements until maturity of the repurchase agreement. At December 31, 2011, there were no counterparties with whom the Company’s amount of risk exceeded 10% of its
shareholders’ equity.  Below is a summary of repurchase agreements and collateral associated with the repurchase
agreements at December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands):   




















 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
Collateral
 

 
  
Repurchase Agreements
 
  
U.S. Government SponsoredEnterprise Obligations
 

 Contractual Maturity
  
WeightedAverageInterest Rate
 
 
Amount
 
  
Amortized Cost
 
  
Fair Value
 

 Up to 30 days
  
 
0.65
% 
 
$
1,767,088
 
  
$
1,848,074
 
  
$
1,863,806
 

 30 to 90 days
  
 
1.53
% 
 
 
175,214
 
  
 
187,212
 
  
 
190,203
 

 Over 90 days
  
 
1.08
% 
 
 
3,073,197
 
  
 
3,283,282
 
  
 
3,335,733
 


  



 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
0.95
% 
 
$
5,015,499
 
  
$
5,318,568
 
  
$
5,389,742
 


  



 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 FHLB Advances and Other Borrowings  FHLB Advances—The Company had $0.5 billion and $0.4 billion in floating-rate and $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion in fixed-rate FHLB advances at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The
floating-rate advances adjust quarterly based on the LIBOR. As a condition of its membership in the FHLB Atlanta, the Company is 
  140



Table of Contents

required to maintain a FHLB stock investment currently equal to the lesser of: a percentage of 0.2% of total Bank assets; or a dollar cap amount of $25 million. Additionally, the Bank must
maintain an Activity Based Stock investment which is currently equal to 4.5% of the Bank’s outstanding advances at the time of borrowing. On a quarterly basis the FHLB Atlanta evaluates excess Activity Based Stock holdings for its members and
makes a determination regarding quarterly redemption of any excess Activity Based Stock positions. The Company had an investment in FHLB stock of $140.2 million and $164.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company must
also maintain qualified collateral as a percent of its advances, which varies based on the collateral type, and is further adjusted by the outcome of the most recent annual collateral audit and by FHLB’s internal ranking of the Bank’s
creditworthiness. These advances are secured by a pool of mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company pledged loans with a lendable value of $5.0 billion and $5.6 billion, respectively, of the one-
to four-family and home equity loans as collateral in support of both its advances and unused borrowing lines.  During the
year ended December 31, 2009, the Company paid down in advance of maturity $1.6 billion of its FHLB advances. The Company recorded a loss on the early extinguishment of FHLB advances of $50.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009.
This loss is recorded in the gains (losses) on early extinguishment of debt line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss). The Company did not have any similar transactions for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
Other Borrowings—ETBH raised capital in the past through the formation of trusts, which sell trust preferred securities in
the capital markets. The capital securities must be redeemed in whole at the due date, which is generally 30 years after issuance. Each trust issued Floating Rate Cumulative Preferred Securities (“trust preferred securities”), at par with
a liquidation amount of $1,000 per capital security. The trusts used the proceeds from the sale of issuances to purchase Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures (“subordinated debentures”) issued by ETBH, which guarantees the trust
obligations and contributed proceeds from the sale of its subordinated debentures to E*TRADE Bank in the form of a capital contribution. The most recent issuance of trust preferred securities occurred in 2007. 
The face values of outstanding trusts at December 31, 2011 are shown below (dollars in thousands): 
 














 Trusts
  
Face Value
 
  
MaturityDate
 
  
 Annual Interest Rate

 ETBH Capital Trust II
  
$
5,000
 
  
 
2031
 
  
10.25%

 ETBH Capital Trust I
  
 
20,000
 
  
 
2031
 
  
3.75% above 6-month LIBOR

 ETBH Capital Trust V, VI, VIII
  
 
51,000
 
  
 
2032
 
  
3.25%-3.65% above 3-month LIBOR

 ETBH Capital Trust VII, IX—XII
  
 
65,000
 
  
 
2033
 
  
3.00%-3.30% above 3-month LIBOR

 ETBH Capital Trust XIII—XVIII, XX
  
 
77,000
 
  
 
2034
 
  
2.45%-2.90% above 3-month LIBOR

 ETBH Capital Trust XIX, XXI, XXII
  
 
60,000
 
  
 
2035
 
  
2.20%-2.40% above 3-month LIBOR

 ETBH Capital Trust XXIII—XXIV
  
 
45,000
 
  
 
2036
 
  
2.10% above 3-month LIBOR

 ETBH Capital Trust XXV—XXX
  
 
110,000
 
  
 
2037
 
  
1.90%-2.00% above 3-month LIBOR


  
  
  
 
  



  


 Total
  
$
433,000
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  



  

 As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, other borrowings also included $2.3 million and $19.3 million,
respectively, of collateral pledged to the Bank by its derivatives counterparties to reduce credit exposure to changes in market value. As of December 31, 2010, other borrowings also included $0.5 million of overnight and other short-term
borrowings in connection with the Federal Reserve Bank’s treasury, tax and loan programs. The Company pledged $0.8 million of securities to secure these borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2010. 
  141



Table of Contents
NOTE 13—CORPORATE DEBT 
The Company’s corporate debt by type is shown below (dollars in thousands): 
 




















 
  
Face Value
 
  
Discount
 
 
Fair Value 
HedgeAdjustment(1)
 
 
Net
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



 



 




 Interest-bearing notes:
  



  



 



 





7  
7/8% Notes, due 2015
  
$
243,177
 
  
$
(1,172
) 
 
$
7,394 
  
 
$
249,399
 


6  
3/4% Notes, due 2016
  
 
435,000
 
  
 
(7,419
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
427,581
 


12  
1/2% Springing lien notes, due 2017
  
 
930,230
 
  
 
(162,903
) 
 
 
6,233 
  
 
 
773,560
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing notes
  
 
1,608,407
 
  
 
(171,494
) 
 
 
13,627 
  
 
 
1,450,540
 

 Non-interest-bearing debt:
  



  



 



 




 0% Convertible debentures, due 2019
  
 
43,012
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
43,012
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate debt
  
$
1,651,419
 
  
$
(171,494
) 
 
$
13,627 
  
 
$
1,493,552
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 
  
Face Value
 
  
Discount
 
 
Fair Value
HedgeAdjustment(1)
 
 
Net
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



 



 




 Interest-bearing notes:
  



  



 



 




 8% Notes, due 2011
  
$
3,644
 
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
3,644
 


7  
3/8% Notes, due 2013
  
 
414,665
 
  
 
(2,475
) 
 
 
15,117 
  
 
 
427,307
 


7  
7/8% Notes, due 2015
  
 
243,177
 
  
 
(1,471
) 
 
 
9,273 
  
 
 
250,979
 


12  
1/2% Springing lien notes, due 2017
  
 
930,230
 
  
 
(177,520
) 
 
 
7,283 
  
 
 
759,993
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing notes
  
 
1,591,716
 
  
 
(181,466
) 
 
 
31,673 
  
 
 
1,441,923
 

 Non-interest-bearing debt:
  



  



 



 




 0% Convertible debentures, due 2019
  
 
703,958
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
703,958
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate debt
  
$
2,295,674
 
  
$
(181,466
) 
 
$
31,673 
  
 
$
2,145,881
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The fair value hedge adjustment is related to changes in fair value of the debt while in a fair value hedge relationship. 
Debt Repayment and Redemption  In 2005 and 2004, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $100 million and $400 million in 8% senior notes due June 2011 (“2011 Notes”), respectively. In June 2011, the Company
repaid the outstanding balance of the 8% Notes.  In 2005, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount
of $600 million in 7  3/8% senior notes due
September 2013 (“2013 Notes”). Interest was payable semi-annually and the notes were non-callable for four years. In May 2011, the Company redeemed the outstanding balance of the 2013 Notes. The Company recorded a $3.1 million gain on
early extinguishment of debt related to the redemption of the 2013 Notes for the year ended December 31, 2011.  Debt
Exchange  In 2009, the Company exchanged $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of its interest-bearing corporate debt
for an equal principal amount of newly-issued non-interest-bearing convertible debentures. The Company recorded a pre-tax non-cash charge of $968.3 million on the early extinguishment of debt related to the Debt Exchange for the year ended
December 31, 2009. 
  142



Table of Contents
7  7/8% Senior Notes due December 2015 (“2015 Notes”)
 In 2005, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $300 million in 7  7/8% senior notes due December 2015. Interest is
payable semi-annually and the notes are non-callable for four years and may then be called by the Company at a premium, which declines over time.  6  3/4% Senior Notes due May 2016 (“2016 Notes”)  In May 2011, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $435 million in
6  3/4% senior notes due May 2016. Interest is
payable semi-annually and the notes may be called by the Company at a premium, which declines over time.  The Company
used the proceeds from the sale of the 2016 Notes to redeem all of its outstanding 2013 Notes including paying the associated redemption premium, accrued interest and related fees and expenses. 
12  
1/2% Springing Lien Notes due November 2017 (“2017 Notes”) 
In 2007 and 2008, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $1.8 billion and $150 million of 2017 Notes, respectively. Interest
is payable semi-annually and the notes are non-callable for five years and may then be called by the Company at a premium, which declines over time. The Company had the option to make interest payments on its 2017 Notes in the form of either cash or
additional 2017 Notes through May 2010. In 2008, the Company elected to make its May interest payment of $121 million in cash and its November interest payment of $121 million in the form of additional 2017 Notes. In 2009, the Company elected to
make both the May and November interest payments of $128.5 million and $54.7 million, respectively, in the form of additional 2017 Notes. In 2010, the Company made both the May and November interest payments in cash. In 2009, $1.3 billion of the
2017 Notes were exchanged for an equal principal amount of the newly-issued non-interest-bearing convertible debentures. Refer to the Debt Exchange section above for more details.  0% Convertible Debentures due August 2019 (“2019 Notes”) 
In 2009, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $1.7 billion in Class A convertible debentures and $2.3 million in Class
B convertible debentures (collectively “convertible debentures” or “2019 Notes”) of non-interest-bearing notes due August 31, 2019, in exchange for $1.3 billion principal of the 2017 Notes and $0.4 billion principal of the
2011 Notes.  The Class A convertible debentures are convertible into the Company’s common stock at a conversion rate
of $10.34 per $1,000 principal amount of Class A convertible debentures and the Class B convertible debentures are convertible into the Company’s common stock at a conversion rate of $15.51 per $1,000 principal amount of Class B
convertible debentures. The holders of the convertible debentures may convert all or any portion of the debentures at any time prior to the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date. The indenture
for the Company’s convertible debentures requires the Company to secure equally and ratably the convertible debentures to the extent the 2017 Notes are secured.  In 2011, $660.9 million of the Company’s convertible debentures were converted into 63.9 million shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2011, a cumulative total of $1.7 billion of the
Class A convertible debentures and $2.2 million of the Class B convertible debentures had been converted into 164.1 million shares and 0.1 million shares, respectively, of the Company’s common stock. 
Ranking, Security and Subsidiary Guarantees  All of the Company’s notes rank equal in right of payment with all of the Company’s existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness and rank senior in right of payment to all its existing and
future subordinated indebtedness. 
  143



Table of Contents
In June 2011, the Company granted a security interest to the holders of the 2017 Notes and
the 2019 Notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indentures. Under the applicable indentures, the security interest is limited to $300 million of property and assets owned by certain unregulated subsidiaries. The security interest granted was
secured by collateral significantly less in value than $300 million. Also in June 2011, certain of the Company’s subsidiaries issued guarantees on each outstanding series of senior notes and 2019 Notes. E*TRADE Bank and E*TRADE Securities LLC,
among others, did not issue such guarantees.  Corporate Debt Covenants 
Certain of the Company’s corporate debt described above have terms which include financial maintenance covenants. As of
December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all such maintenance covenants.  Future Maturities of Corporate Debt
 Scheduled principal payments of corporate debt as of December 31, 2011 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
  








 Years ending December 31,
   

 2012
  
$
—  
  

 2013
  
 
—  
  

 2014
  
 
—  
  

 2015
  
 
243,177
 

 2016
  
 
435,000
 

 Thereafter
  
 
973,242
 


  
  
  
 

 Total future principal payments of corporate debt
  
 
1,651,419
 

 Unamortized discount and fair value adjustment, net
  
 
(157,867
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total corporate debt
  
$
1,493,552
 


  
  
  
 

NOTE 14—OTHER LIABILITIES 
Other liabilities consist of the following (dollars in thousands): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Deposits received for securities loaned
  
$
505,548
 
  
$
570,691
 

 Derivative liabilities
  
 
358,203
 
  
 
106,863
 

 Income tax-related liabilities
  
 
347,579
 
  
 
171,411
 

 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
  
 
218,223
 
  
 
144,390
 

 Other payables to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations
  
 
135,094
 
  
 
157,031
 

 Securities purchased collateral not received
  
 
65,815
 
  
 
—  
  

 Subserviced loan advances
  
 
33,618
 
  
 
114,232
 

 Other
  
 
51,593
 
  
 
29,711
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other liabilities
  
$
1,715,673
 
  
$
1,294,329
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  144



Table of Contents
NOTE 15—INCOME TAXES 
The components of income tax expense (benefit) are as follows (dollars in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
(2,645
) 
 
$
(17,393
) 
 
$
(58,042
) 

 State
  
 
15,651
 
 
 
6,092
 
 
 
6,049
 

 Foreign
  
 
523
 
 
 
448
 
 
 
24
 

 Tax expense recognized for uncertainties
  
 
7,205
 
 
 
122,383
 
 
 
2,989
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current
  
 
20,734
 
 
 
111,530
 
 
 
(48,980
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
8,136
 
 
 
(24,589
) 
 
 
(448,903
) 

 State
  
 
(241
) 
 
 
(61,578
) 
 
 
(39,993
) 

 Foreign
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
207
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred
  
 
7,895
 
 
 
(86,199
) 
 
 
(488,689
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
$
28,629
 
 
$
25,331
 
 
$
(537,669
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The components of income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) are as follows (dollars in
thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Domestic
  
$
181,959
 
  
$
7,426
 
 
$
(1,771,693
) 

 Foreign
  
 
3,371
 
  
 
(10,567
) 
 
 
(63,738
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)
  
$
185,330
 
  
$
(3,141
) 
 
$
(1,835,431
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Unrecognized Tax Benefits  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows (dollars in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits, beginning of period
  
$
281,666
 
 
$
58,696
 
 
$
64,655
 

 Additions based on tax positions related to prior years
  
 
4,174
 
 
 
165,834
 
 
 
2,783
 

 Additions based on tax positions related to current year
  
 
152,497
 
 
 
62,752
 
 
 
2,293
 

 Reductions based on tax positions related to prior years
  
 
(59,315
) 
 
 
(1,517
) 
 
 
(1,229
) 

 Reductions based on tax positions related to current year
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8,159
) 

 Settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
(422
) 
 
 
(3,448
) 
 
 
(681
) 

 Statute of limitations lapses
  
 
(1,195
) 
 
 
(651
) 
 
 
(966
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits, end of period
  
$
377,405
 
 
$
281,666
 
 
$
58,696
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The unrecognized tax benefit increased $95.7 million to $377.4 million during the year ended
December 31, 2011. The majority of additional unrecognized tax benefit recorded during 2011 related to Section 382 limitations on federal and state net operating losses. At December 31, 2011, $137.0 million (net of federal benefits on
state issues) represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective income tax rate in future periods. 
  145



Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the tax years that are either currently under examination or
remain open under the statute of limitations and subject to examination by the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates:   








 Jurisdiction
  
Open Tax Years
 

 Hong Kong 
  
 
2001-2011
  

 United Kingdom 
  
 
2008-2011
  

 United States 
  
 
2004-2011
  

 Various states(1)
  
 
2002-2011
  
  


(1) 
 Includes California, Georgia, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Virginia. 
It is likely that certain examinations may be settled or the statute of limitations could expire with regards to other tax filings, in
the next twelve months. In addition, proposed legislation could favorably impact certain of the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits. Such events would generally reduce the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits, either because the tax
positions are sustained or because the Company agrees to the disallowance, by as much as $10.2 million, all of which could impact the Company’s total tax provision or the effective tax rate. 
The Company’s practice is to recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to income tax matters in income tax expense. The
Company has total reserves for interest and penalties of $11.6 million and $9.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes an increase in the accrual for interest
and penalties of $1.7 million, principally related to state taxes.  Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance 
Deferred income taxes are recorded when revenues and expenses are recognized in different periods for financial statement and tax return
purposes. Prior year balances for the deferred tax assets and liabilities have been re-presented to ensure consistency between periods. The adjustments relate to the presentation of the basis differences in investments and mark to market for certain
loans and securities. The temporary differences and tax carry forwards that created deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows (dollars in thousands): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Reserves and allowances, net
  
$
1,216,487
 
 
$
1,180,768
 

 Net operating losses
  
 
567,774
 
 
 
588,178
 

 Basis differences in investments
  
 
67,738
 
 
 
13,830
 

 Capitalized interest
  
 
65,767
 
 
 
59,075
 

 Deferred compensation
  
 
44,512
 
 
 
45,472
 

 Tax credits
  
 
16,169
 
 
 
6,383
 

 Restructuring reserve and related write-downs
  
 
15,092
 
 
 
15,523
 

 Other
  
 
27,109
 
 
 
12,762
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
2,020,648
 
 
 
1,921,991
 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(73,533
) 
 
 
(75,959
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance
  
 
1,947,115
 
 
 
1,846,032
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(260,600
) 
 
 
(184,616
) 

 Mark to market
  
 
(107,811
) 
 
 
(187,822
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(368,411
) 
 
 
(372,438
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax asset
  
$
1,578,704
 
 
$
1,473,594
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  146



Table of Contents
The Company is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and
record a charge to income if it is determined, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. If the Company did conclude
that a valuation allowance was required, the resulting loss could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The analysis of the need for a valuation allowance recognizes that the Company is in a cumulative
book loss position as of the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, which is considered significant and objective evidence that it may not be able to realize some portion of the deferred tax assets in the future. However, the Company did
not establish a valuation allowance against its federal deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011 as it believes that it is more likely than not that all of these assets will be realized. Approximately two-thirds of existing federal deferred
tax assets are not related to net operating losses and therefore, have no expiration date. The Company ended 2011 with $781 million of gross federal net operating losses which will expire within the next 16 years. 
The Company’s evaluation focused on identifying significant, objective evidence that it will be able to realize its deferred tax
assets in the future. The Company determined that its expectations regarding future earnings are objectively verifiable due to various factors. One factor is the consistent profitability of the Company’s core business, the trading and investing
segment, which has generated substantial income for each of the last eight years, including through uncertain economic and regulatory environments. The core business is driven by brokerage customer activity and includes trading, brokerage cash,
margin lending, long-term investing and other brokerage related activities. These activities drive variable expenses that correlate to the volume of customer activity, which has resulted in stable, ongoing profitability in this business. 
Another factor is the mitigation of losses in the balance sheet management segment, which generated a large net operating loss in 2007
caused by the crisis in the residential real estate and credit markets. Much of this loss came from the sale of the asset-backed securities portfolio and credit losses from the mortgage loan portfolio. The Company no longer holds any of those
asset-backed securities and shut down mortgage loan acquisition activities in 2007. In effect, the key business activities that led to the generation of the deferred tax assets were shut down over four years ago. As a result, the losses in the
balance sheet management segment have continued to decline significantly. In addition, the Company continues to realize the benefit of various credit loss mitigation activities for the mortgage loans purchased in 2007 and prior, most notably,
actively reducing or closing unused home equity lines of credit and aggressively exercising put-back clauses to sell back improperly documented loans to the originators. As a result of these loss containment measures, provision for loan losses has
declined for three consecutive years, down 72% from its peak of $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008.  For
certain of the Company’s state, foreign country and charitable contribution deferred tax assets, the Company maintained a valuation allowance of $73.5 million and $76.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as it is more
likely than not that they will not be fully realized.  The principal components of the deferred tax assets for which a
valuation allowance has been established include the following state and foreign country net operating loss carry forwards and charitable contributions which have a limited carry forward period: 
 


 
•
 
 At December 31, 2011, the Company had certain gross foreign country net operating loss carry forwards and other foreign country temporary
differences of approximately $142.2 million for which a deferred tax asset of approximately $35.6 million was established. The foreign net operating losses represent the foreign tax loss carry forwards in numerous foreign countries, the vast
majority of which are not subject to expiration. In most of these foreign countries, the Company has historical tax losses; accordingly, the Company has provided a valuation allowance of $35.6 million against such deferred tax assets at
December 31, 2011.   


 
•
 
 At December 31, 2011, the Company had gross state net operating loss carry forwards that expire by 2030 in several states of $2.3 billion, most of
which are subject to reduction for apportionment when utilized. A deferred tax asset of approximately $102.1 million has been established related to these state net operating loss carry forwards and temporary differences with a valuation allowance
of $28.7 million against such deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011. 
  147



Table of Contents


 
•
 
 At December 31, 2011, the Company had charitable contribution carry forwards of $24.2 million that expire by 2015. A deferred tax asset of
approximately $9.2 million was established with a corresponding $9.2 million valuation allowance as it is more likely than not that these contributions will expire unused. 
The Company intends to permanently reinvest $16.8 million of undistributed earnings and profits in certain foreign subsidiaries. As a
result, the Company has not recorded $6.8 million of deferred income taxes on those earnings at December 31, 2011.  Effective Tax
Rate  The effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Federal statutory rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
(35.0
)% 
 
 
(35.0
)% 

 State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit
  
 
9.1
 
 
 
81.0
 
 
 
(2.6
) 

 Difference between statutory rate and foreign effective tax rate
  
 
0.3
 
 
 
47.3
 
 
 
0.1
 

 Tax exempt income
  
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
(19.9
) 
 
 
(0.1
) 

 Disallowed interest expense
  
 
6.7
 
 
 
387.3
 
 
 
4.1
 

 Disallowed Debt Exchange loss
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4.7
 

 Liquidation of a foreign subsidiary
  
 
(33.3
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
(1.8
) 
 
 
236.5
 
 
 
(0.7
) 

 Other
  
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
109.1
 
 
 
0.2
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate
  
 
15.4
% 
 
 
806.3
% 
 
 
(29.3
)% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Debt Exchange  For the year ended December 31, 2009, the effective tax rate on the Debt Exchange of 20% was below the Company’s statutory federal tax rate of 35%. This was primarily due to certain components
of the loss on the Debt Exchange not being deductible for tax purposes, which are summarized in the following table (dollars in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
Amount of Loss
 
  
Tax Rate
 
 
Tax Benefit
 

 Deductible portion of the loss on the Debt Exchange
  
$
722,952
 
  
 
35
% 
 
$
253,033
 

 Non-deductible portion of the loss on the Debt Exchange
  
 
245,302
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Prior period interest expense on the 2017 Notes not deductible as a result of the Debt Exchange
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
(57,687
) 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
968,254
 
  
 
20 
% 
 
$
195,346
 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
 Tax Ownership Change  During the third quarter of 2009, the Company exchanged $1.7 billion principal amount of interest-bearing debt for an equal principal amount of non-interest-bearing convertible debentures. Subsequent to
the Debt Exchange, $592.3 million and $128.7 million debentures were converted into 57.2 million and 12.5 million shares of common stock during the third and fourth quarters of 2009, respectively. As a result of these conversions, the
Company believes it experienced a tax ownership change during the third quarter of 2009.  As of the date of the ownership
change, the Company had federal NOLs available to carry forward of approximately $1.4 billion. Section 382 imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s NOLs, certain 
  148



Table of Contents

recognized built-in losses and other carryovers after an “ownership change” occurs. Section 382 rules governing when a change in ownership occurs are complex and subject to
interpretation; however, an ownership change generally occurs when there has been a cumulative change in the stock ownership of a corporation by certain “5% shareholders” of more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period.
 Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset
with pre-ownership change NOLs. In general, the annual limitation is determined by multiplying the value of the corporation’s stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain adjustments) by the applicable long-term tax-exempt
rate. Any unused portion of the annual limitation is available for use in future years until such NOLs are scheduled to expire (in general, NOLs may be carried forward 20 years). In addition, the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be
increased or decreased by built-in gains or losses, respectively, which may be present with respect to assets held at the time of the ownership change that are recognized in the five-year period (one-year for loans) after the ownership change. The
use of NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected unless a corporation experienced an additional ownership change in a future period.  The Company believes the tax ownership change will extend the period of time it will take to fully utilize its pre-ownership change NOLs, but will not limit the total amount of pre-ownership change NOLs
it can utilize. The Company’s updated estimate is that it will be subject to an overall annual limitation on the use of its pre-ownership change NOLs of approximately $194 million. The Company’s overall pre-ownership change NOLs, which
were approximately $1.4 billion, have a statutory carry forward period of 20 years (the majority of which expire in 16 years). As a result, the Company believes it will be able to fully utilize these NOLs in future periods. 
The Company’s ability to utilize the pre-ownership change NOLs is dependent on its ability to generate sufficient taxable income
over the duration of the carry forward periods and will not be impacted by its ability or inability to generate taxable income in an individual year. 
NOTE 16—SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
The activity in shareholders’ equity during the year ended December 31, 2011 is summarized as follows
(dollars in thousands):   
















 
  
Common Stock /Additional Paid-InCapital 
 
  
Accumulated Deficit /Other ComprehensiveLoss
 
 
Total
 


  



  



 




 Beginning balance, December 31, 2010 
  
$
6,642,923
 
  
$
(2,590,478
) 
 
$
4,052,445
 

 Net income 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
156,701
 
 
 
156,701
 

 Conversions of convertible debentures 
  
 
660,946
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
660,946
 

 Net change from available-for-sale securities 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
199,643
 
 
 
199,643
 

 Net change from cash flow hedging instruments 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(149,455
) 
 
 
(149,455
) 


Other(1)

  
 
5,847
 
  
 
1,823
 
 
 
7,670
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance, December 31, 2011 
  
$
7,309,716
 
  
$
(2,381,766)
  
 
$
4,927,950
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Other includes employee share-based compensation accounting and changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss from foreign currency translation.
 Conversions of Convertible Debentures 
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, $660.9 million and $317.0 million of the Company’s convertible debentures
were converted into 63.9 million and 30.7 million shares of common stock, respectively. For further details on the convertible debentures, see Note 13—Corporate Debt. 
  149



Table of Contents
Claims Settlement  In January 2010, a security holder paid the Company $35 million to settle a claim under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Section 16(b) requires certain persons and entities
whose securities trading activities result in “short swing” profits to repay such profits to the issuer of the security. Section 16(b) liability does not require that the security holder trade while in possession of material
non-public information.  Reverse Stock Split  In the second quarter of 2010, after approval by the Company’s shareholders at the Company’s 2010 Annual Meeting, a 1-for-10 reverse stock split of the Company’s common stock became
effective. All prior periods were adjusted to reflect the impact of the reverse stock split.  Preferred Stock 
The Company has 1.0 million shares authorized in preferred stock. None were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011 and
2010. On March 30, 2010, the Company amended its Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the designation of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock. 
Common Stock Offerings  In September 2009, the Company initiated and completed an At the Market Program to offer and sell up to $150 million of common stock, in which the Company issued 8.0 million shares of common stock
resulting in net proceeds of $147 million.  In June 2009, the Company issued 50.0 million shares of common stock, par
value $0.01 in a Public Equity Offering. The Public Equity Offering resulted in net proceeds, after commissions, of $523 million. Citadel, one of the Company’s largest stockholders, purchased approximately 9.1 million shares of the
Company’s common stock in the Public Equity Offering.  In May 2009, the Company initiated an Equity Drawdown Program to
offer and sell up to $150 million of common stock from time to time, in which the Company issued 4.1 million shares of common stock resulting in net proceeds of $63 million. The Equity Drawdown Program was suspended in June 2009. 
Debt Exchange Impact on Shareholders’ Equity  The completion of the Debt Exchange in 2009 resulted in a pre-tax non-cash charge of $968.3 million and an increase of $707.2 million to additional paid-in capital. The net effect of the exchange to
shareholders’ equity was a reduction of $65.7 million. The increase of $707.2 million in additional paid-in capital was attributable to the amortization of the entire premium on the newly-issued convertible debentures, which was immediately
amortized to additional paid-in capital since amortizing the premium into interest expense over the life of the non-interest-bearing convertible debentures would have resulted in recording interest income on a liability (a negative yield).
 Cumulative Effect of the Adoption of Accounting Guidance 
On April 1, 2009, the Company adopted the amended guidance for the recognition of OTTI for debt securities. As a result of the
adoption, the Company recognized a $20.2 million after-tax decrease to beginning accumulated deficit and a corresponding offset in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the consolidated balance sheet. This adjustment represents the after-tax
difference between the impairment reported in prior periods for securities on the consolidated balance sheet as of April 1, 2009 and the level of impairment that would have been recorded on these same securities under the new accounting
guidance. 
  150



Table of Contents
NOTE 17—EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE 
The following table is a reconciliation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share (in thousands, except per share
amounts):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Basic:
  



  



 




 Numerator:
  



  



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
156,701
 
  
$
(28,472
) 
 
$
(1,297,762
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



  



 




 Basic weighted-average shares outstanding
  
 
267,291
 
  
 
211,302
 
 
 
109,544
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted:
  



  



 




 Numerator:
  



  



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
156,701
 
  
$
(28,472
) 
 
$
(1,297,762
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



  



 




 Basic weighted-average shares outstanding
  
 
267,291
 
  
 
211,302
 
 
 
109,544
 

 Effect of dilutive securities:
  



  



 




 Weighted-average convertible debentures
  
 
21,924
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Weighted-average options and restricted stock issued to employees
  
 
607
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted weighted-average shares outstanding
  
 
289,822
 
  
 
211,302
 
 
 
109,544
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Per share:
  



  



 




 Basic earnings (loss) per share
  
$
0.59
 
  
$
(0.13
) 
 
$
(11.85
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings (loss) per share
  
$
0.54
 
  
$
(0.13
) 
 
$
(11.85
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The Company excluded the following shares from the calculations of diluted earnings (loss) per share as
the effect would have been anti-dilutive (shares in millions):   
















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Weighted-average shares excluded as a result of the Company’s net loss:
  



  



  




 Convertible debentures
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
77.2
 
  
 
38.9
 

 Stock options and restricted stock awards and units
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
0.8
 
  
 
0.6
 

 Other stock options and restricted stock awards and units
  
 
3.7
 
  
 
2.8
 
  
 
2.7
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
3.7
 
  
 
80.8
 
  
 
42.2
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

NOTE 18—EMPLOYEE SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS AND OTHER BENEFITS 
In 2005, the Company adopted and the shareholders approved the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (“2005 Plan”) to
replace the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (“1996 Plan”) which provides for the grant of nonqualified or incentive stock options and awards to officers, directors, key employees and consultants for the purchase of newly issued shares of the
Company’s common stock at a price determined by the Board at the date the option is granted. The Company does not have a specific policy for issuing shares upon stock option exercises and share unit conversions; however, new shares are
typically issued in connection with exercises and conversions. The Company intends to continue to issue new shares for future exercises and conversions. 
  151



Table of Contents
Under the 2005 Plan, the remaining unissued authorized shares of the 1996 Plan, up to
4.2 million shares, were authorized for issuance. Additionally, any shares that had been awarded but remained unissued under the 1996 Plan that were subsequently canceled, would be authorized for issuance under the 2005 Plan, up to
3.9 million shares. In May 2009 and 2010, an additional 3.0 million and 12.5 million shares, respectively, were authorized for issuance under the 2005 Plan at the Company’s shareholders’ annual meetings in each of those
respective years. As of December 31, 2011, 13.0 million shares were available for grant under the 2005 Plan.  Employee Stock
Option Plans  Options are generally exercisable ratably over a two- to four-year period from the date the option is
granted and most options expire within seven years from the date of grant. Certain options provide for accelerated vesting upon a change in control. Exercise prices are generally equal to the fair value of the shares on the grant date. 
The Company recognized $2.4 million, $8.4 million and $19.5 million in compensation expense for stock options for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company recognized a tax benefit of $1.1 million, $3.2 million and $7.2 million related to the stock options for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model based
on the assumptions noted in the table below. Expected volatility is based on a combination of historical volatility of the Company’s stock and implied volatility of publicly traded options on the Company’s stock. The expected term
represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The expected term is estimated using employees’ actual historical behavior and projected future behavior based on expected exercise patterns. The risk-free
interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bond where the remaining term approximates the expected term. The dividend yield is zero as the Company has not, nor does it currently plan to, issue dividends to its shareholders. 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Expected volatility
  
 
61
% 
 
 
78
% 
 
 
90
% 

 Expected term (years)
  
 
4.2
 
 
 
4.2
 
 
 
4.3
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2
% 
 
 
2
% 
 
 
2
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 The weighted-average fair values of options granted were $8.50, $8.81 and $6.24 for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Intrinsic value of options exercised were $0.7 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. No stock options were exercised for the year ended
December 31, 2009.  A summary of options activity under the stock option plan is presented below: 
 




















 
  
Shares (inthousands)
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualLife
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic Value(in thousands)
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
2,989
 
 
$
75.62
 
  
 
3.57
 
  
$
3,483
 

 Granted
  
 
541
 
 
$
17.52
 
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(41
) 
 
$
10.42
 
  



  




 Canceled/forfeited
  
 
(776
) 
 
$
62.32
 
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
2,713
 
 
$
68.83
 
  
 
3.68
 
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
  
 
2,613
 
 
$
70.80
 
  
 
3.57
 
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,905
 
 
$
90.77
 
  
 
2.80
 
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




  152



Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2011, there was $4.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to non-vested stock options. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years.  Restricted
Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units  The Company issues restricted stock awards and restricted stock units to its
employees. Each restricted stock unit can be converted into one share of the Company’s common stock upon vesting. These awards are issued at the fair value on the date of grant and vest ratably over the period, generally two to four years. The
fair value is calculated as the market price upon issuance.  The Company recorded $11.7 million, $17.0 million and $26.7
million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in compensation expense related to restricted stock awards and restricted stock units. The Company recognized a tax benefit of $3.4 million, $5.9 million and $9.6
million related to restricted stock awards and restricted stock units for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  A summary of non-vested restricted stock award activity is presented below:   












 
  
Shares (inthousands)
 
 
Weighted-Average GrantDate Fair Value
 

 Non-vested at December 31, 2010
  
 
145
 
 
$
20.75
 

 Issued
  
 
25
 
 
$
16.20
 

 Released (vested)
  
 
(107
) 
 
$
22.58
 

 Canceled/forfeited
  
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Non-vested at December 31, 2011
  
 
63
 
 
$
15.89
 


  
  
  
 
 



 A summary of non-vested restricted stock unit activity is presented below: 
 
















 
  
Units (inthousands)
 
 
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualLife
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic Value(in thousands)
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,393
 
 
 
0.85
 
  
$
22,181
 

 Issued
  
 
1,594
 
 



  




 Released
  
 
(939
) 
 



  




 Canceled/forfeited
  
 
(80
) 
 



  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,968
 
 
 
1.50
 
  
$
15,677
 


  
  
  
 
 



  




 Expected to vest at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,744
 
 
 
1.47
 
  
$
13,894
 


  
  
  
 
 



  



 As of December 31, 2011, there was $19.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
non-vested awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. The total fair value of restricted shares and restricted stock units vested was $15.4 million, $20.9 million and $8.1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  401(k) Plan 
The Company has a 401(k) salary deferral program for eligible employees who have met certain service requirements. The Company matches
certain employee contributions; additional contributions to this plan are at the discretion of the Company. Total contribution expense under this plan was $4.5 million, $4.1 million and $4.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. 
  153



Table of Contents
NOTE 19—REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS 
Registered Broker-Dealers  The Company’s U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule (the “Rule”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 administered by the SEC and FINRA, which
requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. The minimum net capital requirements can be met under either the Aggregate Indebtedness method or the Alternative method. Under the Aggregate Indebtedness method, a broker-dealer is required to
maintain minimum net capital of the greater of 6  2/3% of its aggregate indebtedness, as defined, or a minimum dollar amount. Under the Alternative method, a broker-dealer is required to maintain net capital equal to the greater of $250,000 or 2% of
aggregate debit balances arising from customer transactions. The method used depends on the individual U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary. The Company’s international broker-dealer subsidiaries, located in Europe and Asia, are subject to capital
requirements determined by their respective regulators.  As of December 31, 2011, all of the Company’s
broker-dealer subsidiaries met minimum net capital requirements. Total required net capital was $0.1 billion at December 31, 2011. In addition, the Company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries had excess net capital of $0.7 billion at
December 31, 2011. The table below summarizes the minimum excess capital requirements for the Company’s
broker-dealer subsidiaries (dollars in thousands):   
















  
  
December 31, 2011
 

  
  
Required NetCapital 
 
  
Net Capital
 
  
Excess NetCapital
 

 E*TRADE Clearing LLC(1)
  
$
104,804
 
  
$
587,819
 
  
$
483,015
 

 E*TRADE Securities LLC(1)
  
 
250
 
  
 
145,423
 
  
 
145,173
 

 E*TRADE Capital Markets, LLC(2)
  
 
1,000
 
  
 
24,921
 
  
 
23,921
 

 International broker-dealers 
  
 
9,183
 
  
 
32,157
 
  
 
22,974
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total 
  
$
115,237
 
  
$
790,320
 
  
$
675,083
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Elected to use the Alternative method to compute net capital. 


(2) 
 Elected to use the Aggregate Indebtedness method to compute net capital.  Banking  E*TRADE Bank is subject to various regulatory capital
requirements administered by federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on
E*TRADE Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, E*TRADE Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of
E*TRADE Bank’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. In addition, E*TRADE Bank may not pay dividends to the parent company without approval from its regulators and any loans
by E*TRADE Bank to the parent company and its other non-bank subsidiaries are subject to various quantitative, arm’s length, collateralization and other requirements. E*TRADE Bank’s capital amounts and classification are also subject to
qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.  Quantitative measures
established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require E*TRADE Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets and Tier I capital to adjusted total assets. As shown in the table below, at both
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the most recent notification from its regulators categorized E*TRADE Bank as “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. However, events beyond management’s control,
such as a continued deterioration in residential real estate and credit markets, could adversely affect future earnings and E*TRADE Bank’s ability to meet its future capital requirements. 
  154



Table of Contents
E*TRADE Bank’s actual and required capital amounts and ratios are presented in the
table below (dollars in thousands):   
























 
  
Actual
 
 
Minimum Required to 
beWell Capitalized UnderPrompt CorrectiveAction Provisions
 
 
  
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Excess Capital
 

 December 31, 2011:
  



  



 



  



 




 Total capital to risk-weighted assets
  
$
3,602,384
 
  
 
17.27
% 
 
>$
2,086,243
 
  
 
>10.00
% 
 
$
1,516,141
 

 Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets
  
$
3,338,618
 
  
 
16.00
% 
 
>$
1,251,746
 
  
 
>  6.00
% 
 
$
2,086,872
 

 Tier I capital to adjusted total assets
  
$
3,351,860
 
  
 
7.75
% 
 
>$
2,163,785
 
  
 
>  5.00
% 
 
$
1,188,075
 

 December 31, 2010: 
  



  



 



  



 




 Total capital to risk-weighted assets
  
$
3,308,991
 
  
 
15.02
% 
 
>$
2,203,369
 
  
 
>10.00
% 
 
$
1,105,622
 

 Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets
  
$
3,028,647
 
  
 
13.75
% 
 
>$
1,322,021
 
  
 
>  6.00
% 
 
$
1,706,626
 

 Tier I capital to adjusted total assets
  
$
3,052,012
 
  
 
7.30
% 
 
>$
2,091,530
 
  
 
>  5.00
% 
 
$
960,482
 

NOTE 20—LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 
The Company has non-cancelable operating leases for facilities through 2022. Future minimum lease payments and sublease
proceeds under these leases, including leases involved in facility restructurings, are as follows (dollars in thousands):   
















 
  
Minimum LeasePayments
 
  
SubleaseProceeds
 
 
Net LeaseCommitments
 

 Years ending December 31,
  



  



 




 2012
  
$
24,549
 
  
$
(3,447
) 
 
$
21,102
 

 2013
  
 
20,750
 
  
 
(2,942
) 
 
 
17,808
 

 2014
  
 
19,985
 
  
 
(2,889
) 
 
 
17,096
 

 2015
  
 
18,817
 
  
 
(285
) 
 
 
18,532
 

 2016
  
 
17,212
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
17,212
 

 Thereafter
  
 
53,237
 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
53,237
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total future minimum lease payments
  
$
154,550
 
  
$
(9,563
) 
 
$
144,987
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Certain leases contain provisions for renewal options and rent escalations based on increases in certain
costs incurred by the lessor. Rent expense, net of sublease income, was $19.6 million, $22.6 million and $24.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Rent expense, which is recorded in the occupancy and
equipment line item in the consolidated statement of income (loss), excludes costs related to leases involved in facility restructurings, which are recorded in the facility restructuring and other exit activities line item in the consolidated
statement of income (loss). 
NOTE 21—COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND OTHER REGULATORY MATTERS 
Legal Matters 
Litigation Matters  On
October 27, 2000, Ajaxo, Inc. (“Ajaxo”) filed a complaint in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Santa Clara. Ajaxo sought damages and certain non-monetary relief for the Company’s alleged breach of a
non-disclosure agreement with Ajaxo pertaining to certain wireless technology that Ajaxo offered the Company as well as damages and other relief against the Company for their alleged misappropriation of Ajaxo’s trade secrets. Following a jury
trial, a judgment was entered in 2003 in favor of Ajaxo against the Company for $1.3 million for breach of the Ajaxo non-disclosure agreement. Although the jury found in favor of Ajaxo on its claim against the Company for misappropriation of trade
secrets, the trial court subsequently denied Ajaxo’s requests for additional damages and relief. On December 21, 2005, the California Court of Appeal 
  155



Table of Contents

affirmed the above-described award against the Company for breach of the nondisclosure agreement but remanded the case to the trial court for the limited purpose of determining what, if any,
additional damages Ajaxo may be entitled to as a result of the jury’s previous finding in favor of Ajaxo on its claim against the Company for misappropriation of trade secrets. Although the Company paid Ajaxo the full amount due on the
above-described judgment, the case was remanded back to the trial court, and on May 30, 2008, a jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company denying all claims raised and demands for damages against the Company. Following the trial
court’s filing of entry of judgment in favor of the Company on September 5, 2008, Ajaxo filed post-trial motions for vacating this entry of judgment and requesting a new trial. By order dated November 4, 2008, the trial court denied
these motions. On December 2, 2008, Ajaxo filed a notice of appeal with the Court of Appeal of the State of California for the Sixth District. Oral argument on the appeal was heard on July 15, 2010. On August 30, 2010, the Court of
Appeal affirmed the trial court’s verdict in part and reversed the verdict in part, remanding the case. E*TRADE petitioned the Supreme Court of California for review of the Court of Appeal decision. On December 16, 2010, the California
Supreme Court denied the Company’s petition for review and remanded for further proceedings to the trial court. On September 20, 2011, the trial court granted limited discovery at a conference on November 4, 2011, and set a motion
schedule and trial date. The trial will continue on May 14, 2012. The Company will continue to defend itself vigorously.  On
October 2, 2007, a class action complaint alleging violations of the federal securities laws was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company and its then Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, Mitchell H. Caplan and Robert J. Simmons, respectively, by Larry Freudenberg on his own behalf and on behalf of others similarly situated (the “Freudenberg Action”). On July 17, 2008, the trial court consolidated
this action with four other purported class actions, all of which were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and which were based on the same facts and circumstances. On January 16, 2009, plaintiffs
served their consolidated amended class action complaint in which they also named Dennis Webb, the Company’s former Capital Markets Division President, as a defendant. Plaintiffs contend, among other things, that the value of the Company’s
stock between April 19, 2006 and November 9, 2007 was artificially inflated because the defendants issued materially false and misleading statements and failed to disclose that the Company was experiencing a rise in delinquency rates in
its mortgage and home equity portfolios; failed to timely record an impairment on its mortgage and home equity portfolios; materially overvalued its securities portfolio, which included assets backed by mortgages; and based on the foregoing, lacked
a reasonable basis for the positive statements made about the Company’s earnings and prospects. Plaintiffs seek to recover damages in an amount to be proven at trial, including interest and attorneys’ fees and costs. The parties entered
into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) on December 17, 2011 to settle these consolidated actions. Under the terms of the MOU, the Company and its insurance carriers will pay $79 million in return for full releases. Approximately
$10.8 million of the total settlement figure will be paid by the Company, and was recorded in the other operating expense line item of the consolidated statement of income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2011. This settlement is subject
to Court approval and it has not yet been finalized. The defendants continue to deny that they committed any violations of law or breached any fiduciary duty to shareholders.  On August 15, 2008, Ronald M. Tate as trustee of the Ronald M. Tate Trust Dtd 4/13/88, and George Avakian filed an action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
against the Company, Mitchell H. Caplan and Robert J. Simmons based on the same facts and circumstances, and containing the same claims, as the Freudenberg consolidated actions discussed above. By agreement of the parties and approval of the court,
the Tate action was consolidated with the Freudenberg consolidated actions for the purpose of pre-trial discovery. Plaintiffs seek to recover damages in an amount to be proven at trial, including interest, attorneys’ and expert fees and costs.
The plaintiffs in this action will be part of the anticipated settlement class for the consolidated actions described above. 
Based upon the same facts and circumstances alleged in the Freudenberg consolidated actions discussed above, a verified shareholder
derivative complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on October 4, 2007 by Catherine Rubery, against the Company and its then Chief 
  156



Table of Contents

Executive Officer, President/Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and individual members of its board of directors. The Rubery complaint was consolidated with another shareholder
derivative complaint brought by shareholder Marilyn Clark in the same court and against the same named defendants. On July 26, 2010, Plaintiffs served their consolidated amended complaint, in which they also named Dennis Webb, the
Company’s former Capital Markets Division President, as a defendant. Plaintiffs allege, among other things, causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and violation of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. The complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified monetary damages in favor of the Company, changes to corporate governance procedures and various forms of injunctive relief. 
On April 2, 2008, a class action complaint alleging violations of the federal securities laws was filed by John W. Oughtred on his
own behalf and on behalf of all others similarly situated in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company. Plaintiff contends, among other things, that the Company committed various sales practice
violations in the sale of certain auction rate securities to investors between April 2, 2003, and February 13, 2008 by allegedly misrepresenting that these securities were highly liquid and safe investments for short term investing. On
December 18, 2008, plaintiffs filed their first amended class action complaint. Defendants filed their pending motion to dismiss plaintiffs’ amended complaint on February 5, 2009, and briefing on defendants’ motion to dismiss was
completed on April 15, 2009. Plaintiffs seek to recover damages in an amount to be proven at trial, or, in the alternative, rescission of auction rate securities purchases, plus interest and attorneys’ fees and costs. On March 18,
2010, the District Court dismissed the complaint without prejudice. On April 22, 2010, Plaintiffs amended their complaint. The Company has moved to dismiss the amended complaint. By an Order dated March 31, 2011, the Court granted
E*TRADE’s motion and dismissed the action with prejudice. On May 2, 2011, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Plaintiffs filed their brief on August 12, 2011. The Company’s
responsive brief was filed October 26, 2011. Plaintiffs’ reply brief was filed on November 21, 2011. Oral argument has not yet been scheduled.  On February 3, 2010, a class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against E*TRADE Securities LLC by Joseph Roling on his own behalf
and on behalf of all others similarly situated. The lead plaintiff alleges that E*TRADE Securities LLC unlawfully charged and collected certain account activity fees from its customers. Claimant, on behalf of himself and the putative class, asserts
breach of contract, unjust enrichment and violation of California Civil Code Section 1671 and seeks equitable and injunctive relief for alleged illegal, unfair and fraudulent practices under California’s Unfair Competition Law, California
Business and Professional Code Section 17200 et seq. The plaintiff seeks, among other things, certification of the class action on behalf of alleged similarly situated plaintiffs, unspecified damages and restitution of amounts allegedly
wrongfully collected by E*TRADE Securities LLC, attorneys’ fees and expenses and injunctive relief. The Company moved to transfer venue on the case to the Southern District of New York; that motion was denied. The Court granted E*TRADE’s
motion to dismiss in part and denied the motion to dismiss in part. The Court bifurcated discovery to permit initial discovery on individual claims and class certification. Following preliminary discovery, Plaintiffs moved to amend their verified
complaint for a second time, to assert new allegations and to add a plaintiff. The Company filed its opposition to this motion on December 27, 2011. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against the claims raised in this action.
 On May 16, 2011, Droplets Inc., the holder of two patents pertaining to user interface servers, filed a complaint in the
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against E*TRADE Financial Corporation, E*TRADE Securities LLC, E*TRADE Bank N.A. and multiple other unaffiliated financial services firms. Plaintiff contends that the defendants engaged in patent
infringement under federal law. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and an injunction against future infringements, plus royalties, costs, interest and attorneys’ fees. On September 30, 2011, the Company and several co-defendants filed a
motion to transfer the case to the Southern District of New York. Venue discovery occurred throughout December 2011. On January 1, 2012, a new judge was assigned to the case. The Company will defend itself vigorously in this matter. 
  157



Table of Contents
Several cases have been filed nationwide involving the April 2007 leveraged buyout
(“LBO”) of the Tribune Company (“Tribune”) by Sam Zell, and the subsequent bankruptcy of Tribune. In William Niese et al. v. A.G. Edwards et al., in Superior Court of Delaware, New Castle County, former Tribune employees and
retirees claimed that Tribune was actually insolvent at the time of the LBO and that the LBO constituted a fraudulent transaction that depleted the plaintiffs’ retirement plans, rendering them worthless. E*TRADE Clearing LLC, along with
numerous other financial institutions, is a named defendant, but has not been served with process. One of the defendants removed the action to federal district court in Delaware on July 1, 2011. In Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas et al. v.
Adaly Opportunity Fund et al., filed in the Supreme Court of New York, New York County on June 3, 2011, the Trustees of certain notes issued by Tribune allege wrongdoing in connection with the LBO. In particular the Trustees claim that the LBO
constituted a constructive fraudulent transfer under various state laws. E*TRADE Capital Markets, LLC, along with numerous other financial institutions, is a named defendant. In Deutsche Bank et al. v. Ohlson et al., filed in the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of Illinois, noteholders of Tribune asserted claims of constructive fraud. E*TRADE Capital Markets, LLC is a named defendant. In EGI-TRB LLC et al. v. ABN-AMRO et al., filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County Illinois,
creditors of Tribune assert fraudulent conveyance claims against multiple shareholder defendants. E*TRADE Clearing LLC is a named defendant. There have been several motions filed by various parties to transfer venue and to consolidate these actions.
The Company’s time to answer or otherwise respond to the complaints has been stayed pending further orders of the Court. The Company will defend itself vigorously in these matters. 
In addition to the matters described above, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the normal
course of business. In each pending matter, the Company contests liability or the amount of claimed damages. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or
indeterminate damages, or where investigation or discovery have yet to be completed, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate a range of possible losses on its remaining outstanding legal proceedings; however, the Company believes any losses
would not be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company.  An unfavorable outcome in any matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, even if the ultimate
outcomes are resolved in the Company’s favor, the defense of such litigation could entail considerable cost or the diversion of the efforts of management, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business,
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Regulatory Matters 
The securities and banking industries are subject to extensive regulation under federal, state and applicable international laws. From
time to time, the Company has been threatened with or named as a defendant in, lawsuits, arbitrations and administrative claims involving securities, banking and other matters. The Company is also subject to periodic regulatory audits and
inspections. Compliance and trading problems that are reported to regulators, such as the SEC, FINRA or FDIC by dissatisfied customers or others are investigated by such regulators, and may, if pursued, result in formal claims being filed against
the Company by customers or disciplinary action being taken against the Company or its employees by regulators. Any such claims or disciplinary actions that are decided against the Company could have a material impact on the financial results of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries.  On October 17, 2007, the SEC initiated an informal inquiry into matters related to
the Company’s mortgage loan and mortgage-related securities investment portfolios. The Company is cooperating fully with the SEC in this matter.  Beginning in approximately August 2008, representatives of various states attorneys general and FINRA initiated inquiries regarding the purchase of auction rate securities by E*TRADE Securities LLC’s
customers. On February 9, 2011, E*TRADE Securities LLC received a “Wells Notice” from FINRA Staff stating that they have 
  158



Table of Contents

made a preliminary determination to recommend that disciplinary action be brought against E*TRADE Securities LLC for alleged violations of certain FINRA rules in connection with the purchases of
auction rate securities by customers of E*TRADE Securities LLC. E*TRADE Securities LLC is cooperating with these inquiries and has submitted a Wells response to FINRA setting forth the bases for E*TRADE Securities’ belief that disciplinary
action is not warranted.  On January 19, 2010, the North Carolina Securities Division filed an administrative petition
before the North Carolina Secretary of State against E*TRADE Securities LLC seeking to revoke the North Carolina securities dealer registration of E*TRADE Securities LLC or, alternatively, to suspend that registration until all North Carolina
residents are made whole for their investments in auction rate securities purchased through E*TRADE Securities LLC. On March 8, 2011, E*TRADE Securities LLC, without admitting or denying the underlying allegations, findings or conclusions,
resolved the North Carolina administrative action by entering into a consent order (“North Carolina Order”) pursuant to which E*TRADE Securities LLC agreed to pay a $25,000 civil penalty and to reimburse the North Carolina Securities
Division’s investigative costs of $400,000. E*TRADE Securities LLC also agreed to various undertakings set forth in the North Carolina Order, including additional internal training on fixed income products and the retention of an independent
consultant to review E*TRADE Securities LLC’s policies and procedures related to the approval and sale of fixed income products. As of December 31, 2011, no existing North Carolina customers held any auction rate securities. 
On July 21, 2010, the Colorado Division of Securities filed an administrative complaint in the Colorado Office of Administrative
Courts against E*TRADE Securities LLC based upon purchases of auction rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC by Colorado residents. On October 19, 2011, E*TRADE Securities LLC and the Colorado Division of Securities reached an agreement
in principle to settle the Colorado proceeding whereby E*TRADE Securities LLC will offer to purchase auction rate securities held by Colorado customers who found themselves unable to sell their securities after those securities had been
frozen in the broader auction rate securities market. The agreement in principle also included an agreement with the North American Securities Administrators Association (“NASAA”) whereby E*TRADE Securities LLC will offer to purchase
auction rate securities purchased through E*TRADE Securities LLC on a nationwide basis and pay a $5 million penalty to be allocated among 48 states and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands but exclusive of North Carolina and
South Carolina with whom E*TRADE Securities previously had reached separate settlements. Under the agreement in principle each state will receive its allocated share of the $5 million penalty pursuant to administrative consent cease and desist
orders to be entered into by each state. A Consent Order memorializing the agreement in principle as it related to Colorado customers was entered by the Colorado Securities Commissioner on November 16, 2011, and amended on November 23,
2011, whereby E*TRADE Securities LLC, without admitting or denying the underlying allegations, agreed to pay an administrative penalty to Colorado of $84,202, which amount constituted Colorado’s share of the total NASAA state settlement amount
of $5 million, and to reimburse the Colorado Division of Securities’ costs associated with the administrative action in the amount of $596,580. Under the terms of the Consent Order, E*TRADE Securities LLC will offer to purchase (or offer to
arrange a third party to purchase), at par plus accrued and unpaid dividends and interest, from eligible investors nationwide their auction rate securities purchased through E*TRADE Securities LLC, or through an entity acquired by the Company on or
before February 13, 2008, if such auction rate securities have failed at auction at least once since February 13, 2008 (“the Purchase Offer”). E*TRADE Securities LLC also agreed to identify eligible investors who purchased
auction rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC on or before February 13, 2008, and sold those securities below par between February 13, 2008, and November 16, 2011, and to reimburse those sellers the difference between par
value and the actual sales price plus reasonable interest. E*TRADE Securities LLC agreed to hold open the Purchase Offer until May 15, 2012, and to various other undertakings set forth in the Consent Order, including the establishment of a
dedicated toll-free telephone assistance line and website to provide information and to respond to questions regarding the Consent Order. As of December 31, 2011, the total amount of auction rate securities held by Colorado customers was
approximately $1.2 million and the total amount of auction rate securities held by E*TRADE Securities LLC customers nationwide (including Colorado customers) was $61.3 million. The Company recorded a reserve of $48 million in the other operating
expense line item of the consolidated statement of income (loss). The reserve represented 
  159



Table of Contents

the Company’s estimate of the current fair value relative to par value of auction rate securities held by E*TRADE Securities LLC customers, as well as former customers who purchased auction
rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC and are covered by the Consent Order. The agreement includes the resolution of all material individual auction rate securities arbitrations and litigations. The reserve also includes penalties and other
estimated settlement costs.  On August 24, 2010, the South Carolina Securities Division filed an administrative
complaint before the Securities Commissioner of South Carolina against E*TRADE Securities LLC based upon purchases of auction rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC by South Carolina residents. The complaint sought to suspend
the South Carolina broker-dealer license of E*TRADE Securities LLC until South Carolina customers who purchased auction rate securities through E*TRADE Securities LLC and who wished to liquidate those positions were able to do so, and
sought a fine not to exceed $10,000 for each potential violation of South Carolina statutes or rules. On March 25, 2011, E*TRADE Securities LLC, without admitting or denying the underlying allegations, findings or conclusions,
resolved the South Carolina administrative action by entering into a consent order, pursuant to which E*TRADE Securities LLC agreed to pay a $10,000 civil penalty and to reimburse the South Carolina Securities Division’s investigative costs of
$2,500. As of December 31, 2011, no existing South Carolina customers held any auction rate securities.  Insurance 
The Company maintains insurance coverage that management believes is reasonable and prudent. The principal insurance coverage it maintains
covers commercial general liability; property damage; hardware/software damage; cyber liability; directors and officers; employment practices liability; certain criminal acts against the Company; and errors and omissions. The Company believes that
such insurance coverage is adequate for the purpose of its business. The Company’s ability to maintain this level of insurance coverage in the future, however, is subject to the availability of affordable insurance in the marketplace.
 Reserves 
For all legal matters, reserves are established in accordance with the loss contingencies accounting guidance. Once established, reserves
are adjusted based on available information when an event occurs requiring an adjustment.  Commitments 
In the normal course of business, the Company makes various commitments to extend credit and incur contingent liabilities that are not
reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. Significant changes in the economy or interest rates may influence the impact that these commitments and contingencies have on the Company in the future. 
Loans  The Company
provides access to real estate loans for its customers through a third party company. The Company structured this arrangement to minimize the assumption of any of the typical risks commonly associated with mortgage lending. The third party company
providing this product performs all processing and underwriting of these loans. Shortly after closing, the third party company purchases the loans from the Company and is responsible for the credit risk associated with these loans. The Company had
$140.8 million in commitments to originate loans, $11.7 million in commitments to sell loans and no commitments to purchase loans at December 31, 2011.  Other Investments  The Company has investments in low-income housing tax
credit partnerships and other limited partnerships. The Company had $6.4 million in commitments to fund low income housing tax credit partnerships and other limited partnerships as of December 31, 2011. 
  160



Table of Contents
Securities, Unused Lines of Credit and Certificates of Deposit 
At December 31, 2011, the Company had commitments to purchase $0.5 billion in securities and commitments to sell $0.2 billion in
securities. In addition, the Company had approximately $0.1 billion of certificates of deposit scheduled to mature in less than one year and $0.7 billion of unfunded commitments to extend credit. 
Guarantees  In
prior periods when the Company sold loans, the Company provided guarantees to investors purchasing mortgage loans, which are considered standard representations and warranties within the mortgage industry. The primary guarantees are that: the
mortgage and the mortgage note have been duly executed and each is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms; the mortgage has been duly acknowledged and recorded and is valid; and the mortgage
and the mortgage note are not subject to any right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense, including, without limitation, the defense of usury, and no such right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense has been asserted with respect
thereto. The Company is responsible for the guarantees on loans sold. If these claims prove to be untrue, the investor can require the Company to repurchase the loan and return all loan purchase and servicing release premiums. Management does not
believe the potential liability exposure will have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial condition due to the nature of the standard representations and warranties, which have resulted in a minimal
amount of loan repurchases.  ETBH raised capital through the formation of trusts, which sold trust preferred securities in the
capital markets. The capital securities are mandatorily redeemable in whole at the due date, which is generally 30 years after issuance. Each trust issues trust preferred securities at par, with a liquidation amount of $1,000 per capital security.
The proceeds from the sale of issuances are invested in ETBH’s subordinated debentures.  During the 30-year period prior
to the redemption of the trust preferred securities, ETBH guarantees the accrued and unpaid distributions on these securities, as well as the redemption price of the securities and certain costs that may be incurred in liquidating, terminating or
dissolving the trusts (all of which would otherwise be payable by the trusts). At December 31, 2011, management estimated that the maximum potential liability under this arrangement is equal to approximately $436.9 million or the total face
value of these securities plus dividends, which may be unpaid at the termination of the trust arrangement. 
NOTE 22—SEGMENT INFORMATION 
The Company reports its operating results in two segments, based on the manner in which its chief operating decision
maker evaluates financial performance and makes resource allocation decisions: 1) trading and investing; and 2) balance sheet management. Trading and investing includes retail brokerage products and services; investor-focused banking products;
market making; and corporate services. Balance sheet management includes the management of asset allocation and credit, liquidity and interest rate risk; loans previously originated or purchased from third parties; and customer cash and deposits.
 The Company does not allocate costs associated with certain functions that are centrally-managed to its operating segments.
These costs are separately reported in a corporate/other category, along with technology related costs incurred to support centrally-managed functions; restructuring and other exit activities; and corporate debt and corporate investments. Balance
sheet management pays the trading and investing segment for the use of its deposits via a deposit transfer pricing arrangement, which is eliminated in consolidation. The deposit transfer pricing arrangement is based on matching deposit balances with
similar interest rate sensitivities and maturities. 
  161



Table of Contents
The Company evaluates the performance of its segments based on the segment’s income
(loss) before income taxes. Financial information for the Company’s reportable segments is presented in the following tables (dollars in thousands):   




















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Trading andInvesting
 
  
Balance SheetManagement
 
 
Corporate/Other
 
 
Total
 

 Net operating interest income
  
$
746,047
 
  
$
473,891
 
 
$
21
 
 
$
1,219,959
 

 Total non-interest income
  
 
700,845
 
  
 
115,908
 
 
 
(113
) 
 
 
816,640
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenue
  
 
1,446,892
 
  
 
589,799
 
 
 
(92
) 
 
 
2,036,599
 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
440,614
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
440,614
 

 Total operating expense
  
 
825,940
 
  
 
238,424
 
 
 
170,540
 
 
 
1,234,904
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before other income (expense) and income taxes
  
 
620,952
 
  
 
(89,239
) 
 
 
(170,632
) 
 
 
361,081
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(175,751
) 
 
 
(175,751
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
$
620,952
 
  
$
(89,239
) 
 
$
(346,383
) 
 
 
185,330
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Income tax expense
  



  



 



 
 
28,629
 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Net income
  



  



 



 
$
156,701
 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Trading andInvesting
 
  
Balance SheetManagement
 
 
Corporate/Other
 
 
Total
 

 Net operating interest income
  
$
763,015
 
  
$
463,244
 
 
$
24
 
 
$
1,226,283
 

 Total non-interest income
  
 
711,394
 
  
 
140,265
 
 
 
(67
) 
 
 
851,592
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenue
  
 
1,474,409
 
  
 
603,509
 
 
 
(43
) 
 
 
2,077,875
 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
779,412
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
779,412
 

 Total operating expense
  
 
752,631
 
  
 
215,459
 
 
 
174,487
 
 
 
1,142,577
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before other income (expense) and income taxes
  
 
721,778
 
  
 
(391,362
) 
 
 
(174,530
) 
 
 
155,886
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(159,027
) 
 
 
(159,027
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
$
721,778
 
  
$
(391,362
) 
 
$
(333,557
) 
 
 
(3,141
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Income tax expense
  



  



 



 
 
25,331
 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  



  



 



 
$
(28,472
) 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
Trading andInvesting
 
  
Balance SheetManagement
 
 
Corporate/Other
 
 
Total
 

 Net operating interest income
  
$
699,581
 
  
$
560,916
 
 
$
105
 
 
$
1,260,602
 

 Total non-interest income
  
 
857,200
 
  
 
99,298
 
 
 
(84
) 
 
 
956,414
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenue
  
 
1,556,781
 
  
 
660,214
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
2,217,016
 

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,498,112
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,498,112
 

 Total operating expense
  
 
796,535
 
  
 
244,134
 
 
 
202,660
 
 
 
1,243,329
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before other income (expense) and income taxes
  
 
760,246
 
  
 
(1,082,032
) 
 
 
(202,639
) 
 
 
(524,425
) 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(50,594
) 
 
 
(1,260,412
) 
 
 
(1,311,006
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
$
760,246
 
  
$
(1,132,626
) 
 
$
(1,463,051
) 
 
 
(1,835,431
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Income tax benefit
  



  



 



 
 
(537,669
) 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  



  



 



 
$
(1,297,762
) 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

  162



Table of Contents
Segment Assets   




















 
  
Trading andInvesting
 
  
Balance SheetManagement
 
  
Corporate/Other
 
  
Total
 

 As of December 31, 2011
  
$
9,608,020
 
  
$
37,123,118
 
  
$
1,209,314
 
  
$
47,940,452
 

 As of December 31, 2010
  
$
9,049,333
 
  
$
36,118,175
 
  
$
1,205,493
 
  
$
46,373,001
 
 Assets and total net revenue attributable to international locations were not material for the periods
presented. No single customer accounts for greater than 10% of gross revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
NOTE 23—CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) 
The following presents the Parent’s condensed statement of income (loss), balance sheet and statement of cash
flows:  CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME (LOSS)  (In thousands)   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Total net revenue
  
$
271,607
 
 
$
254,016
 
 
$
358,990
 

 Total operating expense
  
 
375,083
 
 
 
353,839
 
 
 
344,291
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before other income (expense), income tax benefit, and equity in income (loss) of consolidated
subsidiaries
  
 
(103,476
) 
 
 
(99,823
) 
 
 
14,699
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
(175,792
) 
 
 
(157,705
) 
 
 
(1,255,882
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss before income tax benefit and equity in income (loss) of consolidated subsidiaries
  
 
(279,268
) 
 
 
(257,528
) 
 
 
(1,241,183
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax benefit
  
 
(121,141
) 
 
 
(64,109
) 
 
 
(340,749
) 

 Equity in income (loss) of consolidated subsidiaries
  
 
314,828
 
 
 
164,947
 
 
 
(397,328
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
156,701
 
 
$
(28,472
) 
 
$
(1,297,762
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  163



Table of Contents
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET 
(In thousands)   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

ASSETS
  



  




 Cash and equivalents
  
$
478,410
 
  
$
468,176
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
148,184
 
  
 
288,008
 

 Investment in consolidated subsidiaries
  
 
5,347,942
 
  
 
5,133,786
 

 Receivable from subsidiaries
  
 
40,906
 
  
 
13,816
 

 Other assets
  
 
737,491
 
  
 
610,417
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
6,752,933
 
  
$
6,514,203
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



  




 Liabilities:
  



  




 Corporate debt
  
$
1,493,552
 
  
$
2,145,881
 

 Other liabilities
  
 
331,431
 
  
 
315,877
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
1,824,983
 
  
 
2,461,758
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
4,927,950
 
  
 
4,052,445
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
6,752,933
 
  
$
6,514,203
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  164



Table of Contents
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(In thousands)   
















  
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash flows from operating activities: 
  



 



 




 Net income (loss) 
  
$
156,701
 
 
$
(28,472
) 
 
$
(1,297,762
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided 
  



 



 




 by operating activities: 
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization 
  
 
84,026
 
 
 
90,131
 
 
 
87,191
 

 (Income) loss from subsidiaries(1)
  
 
(205,653
) 
 
 
(188,740
) 
 
 
612,700
 

 Dividends from E*TRADE Securities LLC 
  
 
62,000
 
 
 
124,000
 
 
 
63,000
 

 (Gains) losses on early extinguishment of debt 
  
 
(3,091
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
968,254
 

 Other 
  
 
16,035
 
 
 
22,071
 
 
 
30,744
 

 Net effect of increase in other assets 
  
 
(164,597
) 
 
 
(10,216
) 
 
 
(429,058
) 

 Net effect of increase in other liabilities 
  
 
5,697
 
 
 
121,974
 
 
 
176,156
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities
  
 
(48,882
) 
 
 
130,748
 
 
 
211,225
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities: 
  



 



 




 Capital expenditures for property and equipment 
  
 
(23,742
) 
 
 
(81,467
) 
 
 
(86,252
) 

 Sale of property and equipment to subsidiaries 
  
 
90,547
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cash contributions to subsidiaries 
  
 
(9,500
) 
 
 
(8,332
) 
 
 
(653,438
) 

 Other 
  
 
(177
) 
 
 
11,361
 
 
 
9,000
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 
  
 
57,128
 
 
 
(78,438
) 
 
 
(730,690
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities: 
  



 



 




 Net proceeds from issuance of senior notes 
  
 
427,331
 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Payments on senior notes 
  
 
(425,956
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Claims settlement under Section 16(b) 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
35,000
 
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock 
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
733,118
 

 Other 
  
 
613
 
 
 
3,370
 
 
 
(19,421
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by financing activities 
  
 
1,988
 
 
 
38,370
 
 
 
713,697
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase in cash and equivalents 
  
 
10,234
 
 
 
90,680
 
 
 
194,232
 

 Cash and equivalents, beginning of period 
  
 
468,176
 
 
 
377,496
 
 
 
183,264
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and equivalents, end of period 
  
$
478,410
 
 
$
468,176
 
 
$
377,496
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Includes equity in (income) loss of subsidiaries, net of returns of capital and dividends received, except for E*TRADE Securities LLC. Dividends
received from subsidiaries other than E*TRADE Securities LLC for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $98.5 million, $33.8 million and $230.2 million, respectively. 
  165



Table of Contents
Parent Company Guarantees 
Guarantees are contingent commitments issued by the Company for the purpose of guaranteeing the financial obligations of a subsidiary to a
financial institution. The financial obligations of the Company and the relevant subsidiary do not change by the existence of a corporate guarantee. Rather, upon the occurrence of certain events, the guarantee shifts ultimate payment responsibility
of an existing financial obligation from the relevant subsidiary to the guaranteeing parent company.  In support of the
Company’s brokerage business, the Company has provided guarantees on the settlement of its subsidiaries’ financial obligations with several financial institutions related to its securities lending activities. Terms and conditions of the
guarantees, although typically undefined in the guarantees themselves, are governed by the conditions of the underlying obligation that the guarantee covers. Thus, the Company’s obligation to pay under these guarantees coincides exactly with
the terms and conditions of those underlying obligations. At December 31, 2011, no claims had been filed with the Company for payment under any of these guarantees. None of these guarantees are collateralized. 
In addition to guarantees issued on behalf its subsidiaries participating in securities lending programs, the Company also issues
guarantees for the settlement of foreign exchange transactions. If a subsidiary fails to deliver currency on the settlement date of a foreign exchange arrangement, the beneficiary financial institution may seek payment from the Company. Terms are
undefined, and are governed by the terms of the underlying financial obligation. At December 31, 2011, no claims had been made against the Company for payment under these guarantees and thus, no obligations have been recorded. None of these
guarantees are collateralized. 
NOTE 24 – QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED) 
The information presented below reflects all adjustments, which, in the opinion of management, are of a normal and
recurring nature necessary to present fairly the results of operations for the quarterly periods presented (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):   




































 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
First
 
  
Second
 
  
Third
 
  
Fourth
 
 
First
 
 
Second
 
  
Third
 
  
Fourth
 

 Total net revenue
  
$
536,695
 
  
$
517,619
 
  
$
507,275
 
  
$
475,010
 
 
$
536,503
 
 
$
534,001
 
  
$
489,422
 
  
$
517,949
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
45,233
 
  
$
47,118
 
  
$
70,696
 
  
$
(6,346
) 
 
$
(47,837
) 
 
$
35,076
 
  
$
8,404
 
  
$
(24,115
) 

 Earnings (loss) per share:
  



  



  



  



 



 



  



  




 Basic
  
$
0.20
 
  
$
0.18
 
  
$
0.25
 
  
$
(0.02
) 
 
$
(0.25
) 
 
$
0.17
 
  
$
0.04
 
  
$
(0.11
) 

 Diluted
  
$
0.16
 
  
$
0.16
 
  
$
0.24
 
  
$
(0.02
) 
 
$
(0.25
) 
 
$
0.12
 
  
$
0.03
 
  
$
(0.11
) 

 


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
None.  
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   


 
(a)
Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures” (as
defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this annual report, have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective based on
their evaluation of these controls and procedures required by paragraph (b) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15. 
  166



Table of Contents


 
(b)
Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the changes to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during our last fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011, as required by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15, and have concluded that there were no such changes that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and the Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are included in Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 
None.  PART III
 Certain portions of the Company’s Proxy Statement for its next Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which, when filed
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, will be incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, provide the information required under Part III (Items 10,
11, 12, 13 and 14). 
  167



Table of Contents
PART IV   


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   


 
(a)
The following documents are filed as part of this report:  Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules  Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted because the required information is not applicable, not material or is provided in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto. 
 






 Exhibit Number
  
 Description




3.1
  
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of E*TRADE Financial Corporation as currently in effect. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August
4, 2010.)




3.2
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 14, 2010.)




4.1
  
Specimen of Common Stock Certificate (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration Statement
No. 333-05525, filed July 22, 1996.)




4.2
  
Indenture dated November 22, 2005, between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, relating to the 2015 Notes (includes form of note) (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.15 of the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 1, 2006.)




4.3
  
First Supplemental Indenture dated November 1, 2006, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, relating to the 2015 Notes (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10
of the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 24, 2010.)




4.4
  
Second Supplemental Indenture dated June 15, 2011, among the Company, the Guaranteeing Subsidiaries Party Hereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee,
relating to the 2015 Notes (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 4, 2011.)




4.5
  
Indenture dated May 19, 2011, between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as Trustee, relating to the 2016 Notes (includes form of
note) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 19, 2011.)




4.6
  
First Supplemental Indenture dated June 15, 2011, among the Company, the guaranteeing subsidiaries party thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee,
relating to the 2016 Notes (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on August 4, 2011.)




4.7
  
Security Agreement dated June 15, 2011, among the Company, the subsidiary grantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Collateral Trustee, relating to the 2016
Notes (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on August 4, 2011.)




4.8
  
Indenture dated November 29, 2007, between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, relating to the 2017 Notes (includes form of note) (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 4, 2007.)




4.9
  
First Supplemental Indenture dated December 27, 2007, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, relating to the 2017 Notes (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.12 of the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 24, 2010.)
  168



Table of Contents






 Exhibit Number
  
 Description




4.10
  
Second Supplemental Indenture dated January 18, 2008, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, relating to the 2017 Notes (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.13
of the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 24, 2010.)




4.11
  
Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 9, 2009, between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, relating to the 2017 Notes (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 9, 2009.)




4.12
  
Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated June 15, 2011, among the Company, the guaranteeing subsidiaries party thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee,
relating to the 2017 Notes (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on August 4, 2011.)




4.13
  
Indenture dated August 25, 2009 between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee, relating to the 2019 Debentures (includes form of note)
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 25, 2009.)




4.14
  
Third Supplemental Indenture dated June 15, 2011, among the Company, the guaranteeing subsidiaries party thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee,
relating to the 2019 Debentures (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on August 4, 2011.)




+10.1
  
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 24, 2010.)




10.2
  
[redacted] Master Service Agreement and Global Services Schedule, dated April 9, 2003, between E*TRADE Group, Inc. and ADP Financial Information Services, Inc. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on August 8, 2003.)




*10.3
  
Code of Professional Conduct.




+10.4
  
Amended 2005 Equity Incentive Plan of E*TRADE Financial Corporation. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14,
2010.)




+10.5
  
Forms of Award Agreements for Amended 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.66 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 31,
2005.)




+10.6
  
Executive Bonus Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.67 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 31, 2005.)




10.7
  
Master Investment and Securities Purchase Agreement, dated November 29, 2007 by and between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and Wingate Capital Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 4, 2007.)




10.8
  
First Amendment to Master Investment and Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2007, by and between Wingate Capital Ltd. and E*TRADE Financial Corporation
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.5 of the Schedule 13D filed by Citadel Limited Partnership et al with respect to E*TRADE Financial Corporation on December 7, 2007.)




10.9
  
Second Amendment to Master Investment and Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 18, 2008, by and between Wingate Capital Ltd. and E*TRADE Financial Corporation
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.12 of the Amendment No. 1 to Schedule 13D filed by Citadel Limited Partnership et al with respect to E*TRADE Financial Corporation on January 18,
2008.)
  169



Table of Contents






 Exhibit Number
  
 Description




10.10
  
Securities Purchase Agreement, dated November 29, 2007 among E*TRADE Financial Corporation, Investment Partners (A), LLC and the additional investors party thereto (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 4, 2007.)




10.11
  
ABS Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 29, 2007, by and among E*TRADE Financial Corporation, E*TRADE Bank, E*TRADE Global Asset Management, Inc. and Citadel Equity Fund Ltd.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 4, 2007.)




10.12
  
Exchange Agreement dated June 17, 2009 between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and Citadel Equity Fund Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 10-Q
filed on June 17, 2009.)




10.13
  
Amendment No. 1 to Exchange Agreement dated June 22, 2009 between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and Citadel Equity Fund Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2009.)




10.14
  
Form of Exchange Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 6, 2008.)




10.15
  
Guarantee and Support Agreement, dated as of July 14, 2008, by E*TRADE Financial Corporation in favor of The Bank of Nova Scotia (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 16, 2008).




10.16
  
Form of Indemnification Agreement for Directors dated July 30, 2008. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on August 8,
2008.)




+10.17
  
Employment Agreement dated March 19, 2010 by and between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and Steven J. Freiberg. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form
10-Q filed on May 5, 2010.)




+10.18
  
Form of Employment Agreement between E*TRADE Financial Corporation and each of Matthew Audette, Michael Curcio, Greg Framke and Nicholas Utton (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.21 of the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 24, 2010.)




*12.1
  
Statement of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.




*21.1
  
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.




*23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




*31.1
  
Certification—Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




*31.2
  
Certification—Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




*32.1
  
Certification—Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




*101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document




*101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document




*101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document




*101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document




*101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document




*101.PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
  


*
 Filed herein.



+
 Exhibit is a
management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement. 
  170



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  Dated: February 23, 2012 
 






 E*TRADE Financial Corporation (Registrant)




By
 
 /s/    STEVEN J.
FREIBERG        


 
Steven J. Freiberg


 
Chief Executive Officer


 
(Principal Executive Officer)




By
 
 /S/    MATTHEW J.
AUDETTE        


 
Matthew J. Audette


 
Chief Financial Officer


 
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date


/S/     STEVEN
J. FREIBERG         Steven J. Freiberg
  
Director and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 23, 2012

  
 

 /s/    
MATTHEW J. AUDETTE         Matthew J.
Audette
  
Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
February 23, 2012

  
 

 /s/    
RONALD D. FISHER         Ronald D.
Fisher
  
Director
 
February 23, 2012

 /s/    
KENNETH C. GRIFFIN         Kenneth C.
Griffin
  
Director
 
February 23, 2012

 /s/    
FREDERICK W. KANNER         Frederick W.
Kanner
  
Director
 
February 23, 2012

    
Rodger A. Lawson
  
Director
 


 /s/    
MICHAEL K. PARKS         Michael K.
Parks
  
Director
 
February 23, 2012

 /s/     FRANK
J. PETRILLI         Frank J. Petrilli
  
Director
 
February 23, 2012

    
Rebecca Saeger
  
Director
 


 /s/    
JOSEPH L. SCLAFANI         Joseph L.
Sclafani
  
Director
 
February 23, 2012

 /s/    
JOSEPH M. VELLI         Joseph M.
Velli
  
Director
 
February 23, 2012

 /s/     DONNA
L. WEAVER         Donna L. Weaver
  
Director
 
February 23, 2012

 /s/    
STEPHEN H. WILLARD         Stephen H.
Willard
  
Director
 
February 23, 2012

  171




