
10-K
1
d263794d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549  FORM 10-K 
 


þ
 Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
 


¨
 Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the Transition Period from              to
                          Commission File Number 001-35077  Wintrust Financial Corporation
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 






Illinois
 
36-3873352

(State of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 727 North Bank Lane  Lake Forest, Illinois 60045  (Address of principal executive offices)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (847) 615-4096 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

 Common Stock, no par value Warrants (expiring December 19, 2018)
 
 The NASDAQ Global Select Market The NASDAQ Global Select Market
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. þ Yes ¨ No  Indicate by check mark
if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. ¨ Yes þ No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. þ Yes ¨ No  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). þ Yes ¨ No 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
¨ Yes ¨ No  Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definition of “large accelerated filer” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   










 Large accelerated filer þ
 
 Accelerated filer ¨
 
 Non-Accelerated filer ¨
 
 Smaller reporting company ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). ¨ Yes þ No  The aggregate market
value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2011 (the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second quarter), determined using the closing price of the common stock on that day of
$32.18, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market, was $1,102,160,430.  As of February 22, 2012, the registrant had
36,293,039 shares of Common Stock outstanding.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Company’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 24, 2012 are incorporated by
reference into Part III.     
 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 










 
  
 
  
Page
 


  
PART I
  




 ITEM 1
  
Business 
  
 
3
  

 ITEM 1A.
  
Risk Factors
  
 
17
  

 ITEM 1B.
  
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
28
  

 ITEM 2.
  
Properties
  
 
28
  

 ITEM 3.
  
Legal Proceedings
  
 
28
  

 ITEM 4.
  
Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
28
  


  
PART II
  








 ITEM 5.
  
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
29
  

 ITEM 6.
  
Selected Financial Data 
  
 
31
  

 ITEM 7.
  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 
  
 
32
  

 ITEM 7A.
  
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
  
 
81
  

 ITEM 8.
  
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
  
 
83
  

 ITEM 9.
  
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
  
 
144
  

 ITEM 9A.
  
Controls and Procedures 
  
 
144
  

 ITEM 9B.
  
Other Information 
  
 
147
  






  
PART III
  








 ITEM 10.
  
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
  
 
147
  

 ITEM 11.
  
Executive Compensation 
  
 
147
  

 ITEM 12.
  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
  
 
147
  

 ITEM 13.
  
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
148
  

 ITEM 14.
  
Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
  
 
148
  






  
PART IV
  








 ITEM 15.
  
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
149
  


  
Signatures
  
 
155
  



PART I  ITEM I. BUSINESS  Overview 
Wintrust Financial Corporation, an Illinois corporation (“we,” “Wintrust” or “the Company”), which was
incorporated in 1992, is a financial holding company based in Lake Forest, Illinois, with total assets of approximately $15.9 billion as of December 31, 2011. We conduct our businesses through three segments: community banking, specialty
finance and wealth management.  We provide community-oriented, personal and commercial banking services to customers located
in the Chicago metropolitan area and in southeastern Wisconsin (“our Market Area”) through our fifteen wholly owned banking subsidiaries (collectively, the “banks”), as well as the origination and purchase of residential
mortgages for sale into the secondary market through Wintrust Mortgage, a division of Barrington Bank and Trust Company, N.A. (“Barrington Bank”),. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the community banking segment
had net revenues of $568 million, $520 million and $393 million, respectively, and net income (loss) of $84 million, $71 million and $(26 million), respectively. The community banking segment had total assets of $15.2 billion, $13.3 billion and
$12.0 billion as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The community banking segment accounted for 87% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. All of these measurements are based on our reportable segments
and do not reflect intersegment eliminations.  We provide specialty finance services, including financing for the payment of
commercial insurance premiums and life insurance premiums (“premium finance receivables”) on a national basis through our wholly owned subsidiary, First Insurance Funding Corporation (“FIFC”), and short-term accounts receivable
financing (“Tricom finance receivables”) and outsourced administrative services through our wholly owned subsidiary, Tricom, Inc. of Milwaukee (“Tricom”). For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the specialty
finance segment had net revenues of $116 million, $104 million and $232 million, respectively, and net income of $46 million, $33 million and $120 million, respectively. The specialty finance segment had total assets of $3.3 billion, $2.9 billion
and $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. It accounted for 18% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. All of these measurements are based on our reportable segments and do not reflect
intersegment eliminations.  We provide a full range of wealth management services primarily to customers in our Market Area
through three separate subsidiaries, including The Chicago Trust Company, N.A. (“CTC”), Wayne Hummer Investments, LLC (“WHI”) and Great Lakes Advisors, LLC (“Great Lakes Advisors”). For the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, the wealth management segment had net revenues of $63 million, $58 million and $51 million, respectively, and net income of $7 million, $7 million and $6 million, respectively. The wealth management segment had total assets of
$92 million, $65 million and $62 million as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. It accounted for 10% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. All of these measurements are based on our reportable segments
and do not reflect intersegment eliminations.  Our Business  Community Banking  Through our banks, we provide
community-oriented, personal and commercial banking services to customers located in our Market Area. Our customers include individuals, small to mid-sized businesses, local governmental units and institutional clients residing primarily in the
banks’ local service areas. The banks have a community banking and marketing strategy. In keeping with this strategy, the banks provide highly personalized and responsive service, a characteristic of locally-owned and managed institutions. As
such, the banks compete for deposits principally by offering depositors a variety of deposit programs, convenient office locations, hours and other services, and for loan originations primarily through the interest rates and loan fees they charge,
the efficiency and quality of services they provide to borrowers and the variety of their loan and cash management products. Using our decentralized corporate structure to our advantage, in 2008, we announced the creation of our MaxSafe® deposit accounts, which provide customers with expanded Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)
insurance coverage by spreading a customer’s deposit across our fifteen banks. This product differentiates our banks from many of our competitors that have consolidated their bank charters into branches. In 2010, we opened a downtown Chicago
office to work with each of our banks to capture core commercial and industrial business. Our commercial and industrial lenders in our downtown office operate in close partnership with lenders at our community banks. By combining our expertise in
the commercial and industrial sector with our high level of personal service and full suite of banking products, we believe we create another point of differentiation from both our larger and smaller competitors. The banks also offer home equity,
home mortgage, consumer, and real estate loans, safe deposit facilities, ATMs, internet banking and other innovative and traditional services specially tailored to meet the needs of customers in their market areas. 
  3 


We developed our banking franchise through de novo organization of nine banks and the
purchase of eight banks, two of which was merged into an existing Wintrust bank. The organizational efforts began in 1991, when a group of experienced bankers and local business people identified an unfilled niche in the Chicago metropolitan area
retail banking market. As large banks acquired smaller ones and personal service was subjected to consolidation strategies, the opportunity increased for locally owned and operated, highly personal service-oriented banks. As a result, Lake Forest
Bank and Trust Company (“Lake Forest Bank”) was founded in December 1991 to service the Lake Forest and Lake Bluff communities. As of December 31, 2011, we had 99 banking locations. 
We now own fifteen banks, including nine Illinois-chartered banks, Lake Forest Bank, Hinsdale Bank and Trust Company (“Hinsdale
Bank”), North Shore Community Bank and Trust Company (“North Shore Bank”), Libertyville Bank and Trust Company (“Libertyville Bank”), Northbrook Bank & Trust Company (“Northbrook Bank”), Village
Bank & Trust (“Village Bank”), Wheaton Bank & Trust Company (“Wheaton Bank”), State Bank of The Lakes and St. Charles Bank & Trust Company (“St. Charles Bank”). In addition, we have one
Wisconsin-chartered bank, Town Bank, and five nationally chartered banks, Barrington Bank, Crystal Lake Bank & Trust Company, N.A. (“Crystal Lake Bank”), Schaumburg Bank & Trust Company, N.A. (“Schaumburg
Bank”), Beverly Bank & Trust Company, N.A. (“Beverly Bank”) and Old Plank Trail Community Bank, N.A. (“Old Plank Trail Bank”).  Each Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and regular examination by: (1) the Secretary of the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (“Illinois Secretary”) and
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) for Illinois-chartered banks; (2) the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) for nationally-chartered banks or (3) the Wisconsin
Department of Financial Institutions (“Wisconsin Department”) and the Federal Reserve for Town Bank.  We also engage
in the origination and purchase of residential mortgages for sale into the secondary market through Wintrust Mortgage, and provide other loan closing services to a network of mortgage brokers. Mortgage banking operations are also performed within
certain banks. Wintrust Mortgage, a division of Barrington Bank, sells many of its loans with servicing released. Some of our banks engage in loan servicing, as a portion of the loans sold by the banks into the secondary market are sold with the
servicing of those loans retained. Wintrust Mortgage maintains principal origination offices in a number of states, including Illinois, and originates loans in states through correspondent channels. Wintrust Mortgage also established offices at
several of the banks and provides the banks with the ability to use an enhanced loan origination and documentation system. This allows Wintrust Mortgage and the banks to better utilize existing operational capacity and improve the product offering
for the banks’ customers.  We also offer several niche lending products through the banks. These include Barrington
Bank’s Community Advantage program which provides lending, deposit and cash management services to condominium, homeowner and community associations, Hinsdale Bank’s mortgage warehouse lending program which provides loan and deposit
services to mortgage brokerage companies located predominantly in the Chicago metropolitan area, Crystal Lake Bank’s North American Aviation Financing division which provides small aircraft lending, Lake Forest Bank’s franchise lending
program which provides lending primarily to restaurant franchisees and Hinsdale Bank’s indirect auto lending program originates new and used automobile loans, generated through a network of automobile dealers located in the Chicago metropolitan
area, secured by new and used vehicles and diversified among many individual borrowers. We did not originate indirect auto loans from the third quarter of 2008 through the third quarter of 2010, but restarted loans under this program as market
conditions became more favorable. In aggregate, these other specialty loans generated through divisions of the banks comprised approximately 4.6% of our loan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2011. 
Specialty Finance  We
conduct our specialty finance businesses through indirect non-bank subsidiaries. Our wholly owned subsidiary, FIFC, engages in the premium finance receivables business, our most significant specialized lending niche, including commercial insurance
premium finance and life insurance premium finance.  In its commercial insurance premium finance operations, FIFC makes loans
to businesses to finance the insurance premiums they pay on their commercial insurance policies. Approved medium and large insurance agents and brokers located throughout the United States assist FIFC in arranging each commercial premium finance
loan between the borrower and FIFC. FIFC evaluates each loan request according to its own underwriting criteria including the amount of the down payment on the insurance policy, the term of the loan, the credit quality of the insurance company
providing the financed insurance policy, the interest rate, the borrower’s previous payment history, if any, and other factors deemed appropriate. Upon approval of the loan by FIFC, the borrower makes a down payment on the financed insurance
policy, which is generally done by providing payment to the agent or broker, who then forwards it to the insurance company. FIFC may either forward the financed amount of the remaining policy premiums directly to the insurance carrier or to the
agent or broker for remittance to the insurance carrier on FIFC’s behalf. In some cases the agent or broker may hold our collateral, in the form of the proceeds of the unearned insurance premium from the insurance company, and forward it to
FIFC in the event of a default by the borrower. Because the agent or broker is the primary contact to the ultimate borrowers who are located nationwide and because proceeds and our collateral may be handled by the agent or brokers during the term of
the loan, FIFC may be more susceptible to third party (i.e., agent or broker) fraud. The Company performs ongoing credit and other reviews of the agents and brokers, and performs various internal audit steps to mitigate against the risk of any
fraud.  The commercial and property premium finance business is subject to regulation in the majority of states. Regulation
typically governs notices to borrowers prior to cancellation of a policy, notices to insurance companies, maximum interest rates and late fees and approval of loan documentation. FIFC is licensed or otherwise qualified to provide financing of
commercial insurance policies in all 50 states states and FIFC’s compliance department regularly monitors changes to regulations and updates policies and programs accordingly. 
  4 


In 2007, FIFC began financing life insurance policy premiums generally used for estate
planning purposes of high net-worth borrowers. These loans are originated directly with the borrowers with assistance from life insurance carriers, independent insurance agents, financial advisors and legal counsel. The cash surrender value of the
life insurance policy is the primary form of collateral. In addition, these loans often are secured with a letter of credit, marketable securities or certificates of deposit. In some cases, FIFC may make a loan that has a partially unsecured
position. In 2009, FIFC significantly expanded its life insurance premium finance business by purchasing a portfolio of domestic life insurance premium finance loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of approximately $1.0 billion and
certain related assets from two affiliates of American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”), for an aggregate purchase price of $745.9 million.  The life insurance premium finance business is governed under banking regulations but is not subject to additional systemic regulation. FIFC’s compliance department regularly monitors the regulatory
environment and the company’s compliance with existing regulations. FIFC maintains a policy prohibiting the knowing financing of stranger-originated life insurance and has established procedures to identify and prevent the company from
financing such policies. While a carrier could potentially put at risk the cash surrender value of a policy, which serves as FIFC’s primary collateral, by challenging the validity of the insurance contract for lack of an insurable interest,
FIFC believes it has strong counterclaims against any such claims by carriers, in addition to recourse to borrowers and guarantors as well as to additional collateral in certain cases. 
FIFC’s premium finance loans are primarily secured by the insurance policies financed by the loans. These insurance policies are
written by a large number of insurance companies geographically dispersed throughout the country. Our premium finance receivables balances finance insurance policies which are spread among a large number of insurers, however one of the insurers
represents approximately 15% of such balances and two additional insurers each represent approximately 5% of such balances. FIFC consistently monitors carrier ratings and financial performance of our carriers. In the event ratings fall below certain
levels, most of FIFC’s life insurance premium finance policies provide for an event of default and allow FIFC to have recourse to borrowers and guarantors as well as to additional collateral in certain cases. For the commercial premium finance
business, the term of the loans is sufficiently short such that in the event of a decline in carrier ratings, FIFC can restrict or eliminate additional loans to finance premiums to such carriers. 
Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Tricom, we provide high-yielding, short-term accounts receivable financing and value-added,
outsourced administrative services, such as data processing of payrolls, billing and cash management services to the temporary staffing industry. Tricom’s clients, located throughout the United States, provide staffing services to businesses in
diversified industries. During 2011, Tricom processed payrolls with associated client billings of approximately $415 million and contributed approximately $7.7 million to our revenue, net of interest expense. Net revenue is based on our reportable
segments and does not reflect intersegment eliminations.  In 2011, our commercial premium finance operations, life insurance
premium finance operations and accounts receivable finance operations accounted for 56%, 37% and 7%, respectively, of the total revenues of our specialty finance business.  Wealth Management Activities  We offer a full range of wealth management
services through three separate subsidiaries, including trust and investment services, asset management and securities brokerage services. In February 2002, we acquired WHI and Wayne Hummer Asset Management Company which are headquartered in
Chicago. Soon thereafter, in order to further expand our wealth management business, we acquired Lake Forest Capital Management Company, a registered investment advisor with approximately $300 million of assets under management at the time of
acquisition and, in 2009, further added to our capabilities in this area with the purchase of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Advanced Investment Partners, LLC which specializes in the active management of domestic equity
investment strategies and expands our institutional investment business.  In July 2011, the Company acquired Great Lakes
Advisors which merged with Wintrust’s existing asset management business. Great Lakes Advisors, our registered investment adviser, provides money management services and advisory services to individuals, mutual funds and institutional municipal
and tax-exempt organizations. Great Lakes Advisors also provides portfolio management and financial supervision for a wide range of pension and profit-sharing plans as well as money management and advisory services to CTC. At December 31, 2011,
the Company’s wealth management subsidiaries had approximately $13.8 billion of assets under administration, which includes $2.0 billion of assets owned by the Company and its subsidiary banks. 
CTC, our trust subsidiary, offers trust and investment management services to clients through offices located in downtown Chicago and at
various banking offices of our fifteen banks. CTC is subject to regulation, supervision and regular examination by the OCC. 
WHI, our registered broker/dealer subsidiary, has been operating since 1931. Through WHI, we provide a full range of private client and
securities brokerage services to clients located primarily in the Midwest. WHI is headquartered in downtown Chicago, operates an office in Appleton, Wisconsin, and as of December 31, 2011, established branch locations in offices at a majority
of our banks. WHI also provides a full range of investment services to clients through a network of relationships with community-based financial institutions primarily located in Illinois. 
  5 


Strategy and Competition 
Historically, we have executed a growth strategy through branch openings and de novo bank formations, expansion of our wealth
management and premium finance business, development of specialized earning asset niches and acquisitions of other community-oriented banks or specialty finance companies. However, beginning in 2006, we made a decision to slow our growth due to
unfavorable credit spreads, loosened underwriting standards by many of our competitors, and intense price competition. In August 2008, we raised $50 million of private equity. This investment was followed shortly by an investment by the U.S.
Department of Treasury (“Treasury”) of $250 million and a warrant to purchase 1,643,295 shares of Wintrust Common Stock through the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). The CPP investment was not necessary for our short-or long-term
health. However, the CPP investment presented an opportunity for the Company. By providing us with a significant source of relatively inexpensive capital, the Treasury’s CPP investment allowed us to accelerate our growth cycle, expand lending
and meet former Treasury Secretary Paulson’s stated purpose for the program, which was “designed to attract broad participation by healthy institutions” that “have plenty of capital to get through this period, but are not
positioned to lend as widely as is necessary to support our economy.”  With this $300 million of additional capital, we
began to increase our lending and deposits in late 2008. This additional capital allowed us to be in a position to take advantage of opportunities in a disrupted marketplace during 2009, 2010 and 2011 by: 
 


 
•
 
 Increasing our lending as other financial institutions pulled back; 
 


 
•
 
 Hiring quality lenders and other staff away from larger and smaller institutions that may have substantially deviated from a customer-focused
approach or who may have substantially limited the ability of their staff to provide credit or other services to their customers;   


 
•
 
 Investing in dislocated assets such as the purchased life insurance premium finance portfolio and certain collateralized mortgage obligations; and
  


 
•
 
 Purchasing banks and banking assets either directly or through the FDIC-assisted process in areas key to our geographic expansion.
 In March 2010, we further strengthened our capital position through a public offering of 6,670,000 shares
of our common stock at $33.25 per share. Our net proceeds totaled $210.3 million. In December 2010, we sold an additional 3,685,897 shares of our common stock at $30.00 per share and 4.6 million 7.5% tangible equity units at a public offering
price of $50.00 per unit (“the concurrent offerings”). We received net proceeds of $327.5 million from the concurrent offerings. Together, our capital offerings aggregated nearly $540 million in net proceeds. 
On December 22, 2010, we repurchased all 250,000 shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (the
“Series B Preferred Stock”) which we issued to the Treasury under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) CPP. The Series B Preferred Stock was repurchased at a price of $251.3 million, which included accrued and unpaid
dividends of $1.3 million.  Management is committed to maintaining the Company’s capital levels above the “Well
Capitalized” levels established by the Federal Reserve for bank holding companies. Our strategy and competitive position for each of our business segments is summarized in further detail, below. 
Community Banking  We
compete in the commercial banking industry through our banks in the communities they serve. The commercial banking industry is highly competitive and the banks face strong direct competition for deposits, loans and other financial related services.
The banks compete with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and stockbrokers. Some of these competitors are local, while others are statewide or nationwide.  As a mid-size financial services company, we expect to benefit from greater access to financial and managerial resources than our smaller local competitors while maintaining our commitment to local
decision-making and to our community banking philosophy. In particular, we are able to provide a wider product selection and larger credit facilities than many of our smaller competitors, and we believe our service offerings help us in recruiting
talented staff. Since the beginning of 2009, we have continued to add more lenders throughout the community banking organization, many of whom have joined us because of our ability to offer a range of products and level of services which compete
effectively with both larger and smaller market participants. We have continued to expand our product delivery systems, including a wide variety of electronic banking options for our retail and commercial customers which allow us to provide a level
of service typically associated with much larger banking institutions. Consequently, management views technology as a great equalizer to offset some of the inherent advantages of its significantly larger competitors. Additionally, we have access to
public capital markets whereas many of our local competitors are privately held and may have limited capital raising capabilities. 
  6 


We also believe we are positioned to compete effectively with other larger and more
diversified banks, bank holding companies and other financial services companies due to the multi-chartered approach that pushes accountability for building a franchise and a high level of customer service down to each of our banking franchises.
Additionally, we believe that we provide a relatively complete portfolio of products that is responsive to the majority of our customers’ needs through the retail and commercial operations supplied by our banks, and through our mortgage and
wealth management operations. The breadth of our product mix allows us to compete effectively with our larger competitors while our multi-chartered approach with local and accountable management provides for what we believe is superior customer
service relative to our larger and more centralized competitors.  Wintrust Mortgage, a division of Barrington Bank, as well as
the mortgage banking functions within the banks, competes with large mortgage brokers as well as other banking organizations. Consolidation, on-going investor push-backs, enhanced regulatory guidance and the promise of equal oversight for both banks
and independent lenders have created challenges for small and medium-sized independent mortgage lenders. Wintrust Mortgage’s size, bank affiliation, branding, technology, business development tools and reputation makes the firm well positioned
to compete in this environment. While earnings will fluctuate with the rise and fall of long-term interest rates, mortgage banking revenue will be a continuous source of revenue for us and our mortgage lending relationships will continue to provide
franchise value to our other financial service businesses.  In 2011, we furthered our growth strategy by purchasing, through
certain of our banking subsidiaries, a number of additional banks and banking locations. In three FDIC-assisted transactions, we purchased a total of nine new banking locations, four in Chicago, one in Bloomingdale, Illinois, one in Itasca,
Illinois, one in Norridge, Illinois, one in Park Ridge, Illlinois and one in Wood Dale, Illinois. Each of these acquisitions allowed us to expand our franchise into strategic locations on a cost-effective basis. In addition, we acquired three new
banking locations in a non-FDIC-assisted transaction in Elgin, Illinois, that were merged into the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary bank, St. Charles Bank. Also, in 2011, we acquired three closed banking facilities from the FDIC in Crystal
Lake, Illinois, Schaumburg, Illinois and Des Plaines, Illinois that were re-opened for business by Wintrust in 2011. We believe that these strategic acquisitions will allow us to grow into contiguous markets which we do not currently service and
expand our footprint.  Specialty Finance  FIFC encounters intense competition from numerous other firms, including a number of national commercial premium finance companies, companies affiliated with insurance carriers, independent insurance
brokers who offer premium finance services and other lending institutions. Some of its competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources. FIFC competes with these entities by emphasizing a high level of knowledge of the insurance
industry, flexibility in structuring financing transactions, and the timely funding of qualifying contracts. We believe that our commitment to service also distinguishes us from our competitors. Additionally, we believe that FIFC’s acquisition
of a large life insurance premium finance portfolio and related assets in 2009 enhanced our ability to market and sell life insurance premium finance products.  Tricom competes with numerous other firms, including a small number of similar niche finance companies and payroll processing firms, as well as various finance companies, banks and other lending
institutions. Tricom’s management believes that its commitment to service distinguishes it from competitors. To the extent that other finance companies, financial institutions and payroll processing firms add greater programs and services to
their existing businesses, Tricom’s operations could be negatively affected.  Wealth Management Activities 
Our wealth management companies (CTC, WHI and Great Lakes Advisors) compete with larger wealth management subsidiaries of other larger
bank holding companies as well as with other trust companies, brokerage and other financial service companies, stockbrokers and financial advisors. We believe we can successfully compete for trust, asset management and brokerage business by offering
personalized attention and customer service to small to midsize businesses and affluent individuals. We continue to recruit and hire experienced professionals from the larger Chicago area wealth management companies, which is expected to help in
attracting new customer relationships.  Supervision and Regulation 
Bank holding companies, banks and investment firms are extensively regulated under federal and state law. References under this heading
to applicable statutes or regulations are brief summaries or portions thereof which do not purport to be complete and which are qualified in their entirety by reference to those statutes and regulations and regulatory interpretations thereof. Any
change in applicable laws or regulations may have a material effect on the business of commercial banks and bank holding companies, including the Company, the banks, FIFC, CTC, WHI, Great Lakes Advisors, Tricom and Wintrust Mortgage. The
supervision, regulation and examination of banks and bank holding companies by bank regulatory agencies are intended primarily for the protection of depositors rather than stockholders of banks and bank holding companies. This section discusses
recent regulatory developments impacting the Company and its subsidiaries, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act and the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”). Following that presentation, the discussion turns to the
regulation and supervision of the Company and its subsidiaries under various federal and state rules and regulations applicable to bank holding companies, broker-dealer and investment advisors. 
  7 


Extraordinary Government Programs 
During the past three years, the federal government, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the “New York Fed”) and the FDIC
have made a number of programs available to banks and other financial institutions in an effort to ensure a well-functioning U.S. financial system. The Company participated in three such programs. Two of these programs, the CPP of the Treasury and
the New York Fed’s Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (“TALF”), have provided the Company with a significant amount of relatively inexpensive funding, which the Company used to accelerate its growth cycle and expand lending.
 Capital Purchase Program. In October 2008, the Treasury announced that it intended to use a portion of the initial
funds allocated to it pursuant to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, to invest directly in financial institutions through the newly-created CPP which was “designed to attract broad participation by healthy institutions”
which “have plenty of capital to get through this period, but are not positioned to lend as widely as is necessary to support our economy.” In December 2008, the Company sold the Treasury $250 million in the Company’s Series B
Preferred Stock, and warrants to purchase the Company’s common stock.  On December 22, 2010, the Company repurchased
all the shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The Series B Preferred Stock was repurchased at a price of $251.3 million, which included accrued and unpaid dividends of $1.3 million. In addition, on February 14, 2011, the Treasury sold, through an
underwritten public offering to purchasers other than the Company, all of the Company’s warrants that it had received in connection with the CPP investment.  Participation in the CPP placed a number of restrictions on the Company, including limitations on the ability to increase dividends and restrictions on the compensation of its employees and executives.
Participation in the CPP also subjected the Company to increased oversight by the Treasury, banking regulators and Congress. As a result of the Company’s exit from the CPP, these restrictions have been terminated. 
TALF-Eligible Issuance. In addition, in September 2009, one of the Company’s subsidiaries sold $600 million in aggregate
principal amount of its asset-backed notes in a securitization transaction sponsored by FIFC. The asset backed notes are eligible collateral under TALF and certain investors therefore received non-recourse funding from the New York Fed in order to
purchase the notes. As a result, FIFC believes it received greater proceeds at lower interest rates from the securitization than it otherwise would have received in non-TALF-eligible transactions. 
Increased FDIC Insurance for Non-Interest-Bearing Transaction Accounts. Each of our bank subsidiaries have also benefited from
federal programs which provide increased FDIC insurance coverage for certain deposit accounts. At present, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) and implementing regulations issued by the FDIC
provide unlimited federal insurance of the net amount of certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions, including our bank subsidiaries, through December 31, 2012. After December 31, 2012,
depositors will receive federal insurance up to the standard maximum deposit insurance amount of $250,000, which increased amount was made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act.  Bank Regulation; Bank Holding Company and Subsidiary Regulations 
General. Lake Forest Bank, Hinsdale Bank, North Shore Bank, Libertyville Bank, Northbrook Bank, Village Bank, Wheaton Bank, State
Bank of The Lakes and St. Charles Bank are Illinois-chartered banks and as such they and their subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by the Illinois Secretary. Each of these Illinois-chartered banks is a member of the Federal
Reserve and, as such, is subject to additional examination by the Federal Reserve as their primary federal regulator. Barrington Bank, Crystal Lake Bank, Schaumburg Bank, Beverly Bank, Old Plank Trail Bank and CTC are federally-chartered and are
subject to supervision and examination by the OCC pursuant to the National Bank Act and regulations promulgated thereunder. Town Bank is a Wisconsin-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve, and as such is subject to supervision by the
Wisconsin Department and the Federal Reserve.  Financial Holding Company Regulations. The Company is a bank holding
company that has elected to be treated by the Federal Reserve as a financial holding company for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, including regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve (the “BHC Act”), as
augmented by the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLB Act”), which established a comprehensive framework to permit affiliations among commercial banks, insurance companies and securities firms. The Company became a financial
holding company in 2002. Bank holding companies that elect to be treated as financial holding companies may engage in an expanded range of activities, including the businesses conducted by the wealth management subsidiaries. Financial holding
companies, unlike traditional bank holding companies, can engage in certain activities without prior Federal Reserve approval, subject to certain post-commencement notice procedures. Effective July 2011, the Dodd- Frank Act requires a bank holding
company that elects treatment as a financial holding company, including us, to be both well-capitalized and well-managed. This is in addition to the existing requirement that a financial holding company’s subsidiary banks be well-capitalized
and well-managed as defined in the applicable regulatory standards. If these conditions are not maintained, and the financial holding company fails to correct any deficiency within 180 days, the Federal Reserve may require the Company to either
divest control of its banking subsidiaries or, at the election of the Company, cease to engage in any activities not permissible for a bank holding company that is not a financial holding company. Moreover, during the period of non-compliance, the
Federal Reserve 
  8 



can place any limitations on the financial holding company that it believes to be appropriate. Furthermore, if the Federal Reserve determines that a financial holding company has not maintained
at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) at all of its controlled banking subsidiaries, the Company will not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such
activities, although the Company will still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting merchant banking activities. In April 2008, the Company was notified that one of its
bank subsidiaries received a “needs to improve” rating under the CRA, therefore, the Company is subject to restrictions on further expansion in certain situations.  Federal Reserve Regulations. The Company continues to be subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act. The Company is required to file with the Federal Reserve
periodic reports and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require pursuant to the BHC Act. The Federal Reserve examines the Company and may examine the banks and the Company’s other subsidiaries. 
The BHC Act requires prior Federal Reserve approval for, among other things, the acquisition by a bank holding company of direct or
indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all the assets of any bank, or for a merger or consolidation of a bank holding company with another bank holding company. With certain exceptions, the BHC Act
prohibits a financial holding company from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of voting shares of any company which is not a business that is financial in nature or incidental thereto, and from engaging directly or indirectly in any
activity that is not financial in nature or incidental thereto. Also, as discussed below, the Federal Reserve expects bank holding companies to maintain strong capital positions while experiencing growth. The Federal Reserve, as a matter of policy,
may require a bank holding company to be well-capitalized at the time of filing an acquisition application and upon consummation of the acquisition.  Under the BHC Act, the banks are prohibited from engaging in certain tying arrangements in connection with an extension of credit, lease, sale of property or furnishing of services. That means that,
except with respect to traditional banking products (loans, deposits or trust services), the banks may not condition a customer’s purchase of services on the purchase of other services from any of the banks or other subsidiaries of the Company.
 It has been the policy of the Federal Reserve that the Company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial
strength to its subsidiaries, and to commit resources to support the subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve has taken the position that in implementing this policy, it may require the Company to provide such support even when the Company otherwise would
not consider itself able to do so. The Dodd-Frank Act codified the requirement of holding companies, like the Company, to serve as a source of financial strength to their subsidiary depository institutions, which statutory requirement was effective
in July 2011.  Interstate Acquisitions. The Dodd-Frank Act amended the BHC Act to require that a bank holding company
be well-capitalized and well-managed, not merely adequately capitalized and adequately managed, in order to acquire a bank located outside of the bank holding company’s home state. This amendment was effective in July 2011. 
Federal Reserve Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve has adopted risk-based capital requirements for assessing capital
adequacy of all bank holding companies, including financial holding companies. These standards define regulatory capital and establish minimum capital ratios in relation to assets, both on an aggregate basis and as adjusted for credit risks and
off-balance sheet exposures. Under the Federal Reserve’s risk-based guidelines, capital is classified into two categories. For bank holding companies, Tier 1 capital, or “core” capital, consists of common stockholders’ equity,
qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock including related surplus, qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock including related surplus (subject to certain limitations), minority interests in the common equity accounts of
consolidated subsidiaries and qualifying trust preferred securities, and is reduced by goodwill, specified intangible assets and certain other items (“Tier 1 Capital”). Tier 2 capital, or “supplementary” capital, consists of the
following items, all of which are subject to certain conditions and limitations: the allowance for credit losses; perpetual preferred stock and related surplus; hybrid capital instruments; unrealized holding gains on marketable equity securities;
perpetual debt and mandatory convertible debt securities; term subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock.  Under
the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines, bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8.0%, of which at least 4.0% must be in the form of Tier 1 Capital. The Federal
Reserve also requires a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total assets of 3.0% for strong bank holding companies (those rated a composite “1” under the Federal Reserve’s rating system). For all other bank holding companies,
the minimum ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total assets is 4%. In addition, the Federal Reserve continues to consider the Tier 1 leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to average quarterly assets) in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.
 In its capital adequacy guidelines, the Federal Reserve emphasizes that the foregoing standards are supervisory minimums and
that banking organizations generally are expected to operate well above the minimum ratios. These guidelines also provide that banking organizations experiencing growth, whether internally or through acquisition, are expected to maintain strong
capital positions substantially above the minimum levels. In light of the recent financial turmoil, it is generally expected that capital requirements will be revisited on a national and international basis. 
  9 


As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio
was 13.0%, its Tier 1 Capital to risk-weighted asset ratio was 11.8% and its leverage ratio was 9.4%. Capital requirements for the banks generally parallel the capital requirements previously noted for bank holding companies. Each of the banks is
subject to applicable capital requirements on a separate company basis. The federal banking regulators must take prompt corrective action with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. There are
five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” As of December 31, 2011, each of the
Company’s banks was categorized as “well capitalized.” In order to maintain the Company’s designation as a financial holding company, each of the banks is required to maintain capital ratios at or above the “well
capitalized” levels.  Dividend Limitations. Because the Company’s consolidated net income consists largely of
net income of the banks and its non-bank subsidiaries, the Company’s ability to pay dividends depends upon its receipt of dividends from these entities. Federal and state statutes and regulations impose restrictions on the payment of dividends
by the Company, the banks and its non-bank subsidiaries. (See Bank Regulation; Additional Regulation of Dividends for further discussion of dividend limitations.)  Federal Reserve policy provides that a bank holding company should not pay dividends unless (i) the bank holding company’s net income over the last four quarters (net of dividends paid) is
sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (ii) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition of the bank holding company and its subsidiaries and (iii) the
bank holding company will continue to meet minimum required capital adequacy ratios. The policy also provides that a bank holding company should inform the Federal Reserve reasonably in advance of declaring or paying a dividend that exceeds earnings
for the period for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in a material adverse change to the bank holding company’s capital structure. Additionally, the Federal Reserve possesses enforcement powers over bank holding companies
and their non-bank subsidiaries to prevent or remedy actions that represent unsafe or unsound practices or violations of applicable statutes and regulations. Among these powers is the ability to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by bank
holding companies.  Bank Regulation; Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
General. The deposits of the banks are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) under the provisions of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDIA”), and the banks are, therefore, also subject to supervision and examination by the FDIC. The FDIA requires that the appropriate federal regulatory authority (the Federal Reserve in the case of
Lake Forest Bank, North Shore Bank, Hinsdale Bank, Libertyville Bank, Northbrook Bank, Village Bank, Wheaton Bank, State Bank of The Lakes, Town Bank and St. Charles Bank and the OCC in the case of Barrington Bank, Crystal Lake Bank, Schaumburg
Bank, Beverly Bank, Old Plank Trail Bank, and CTC) approve any merger and/or consolidation by or with an insured bank, as well as the establishment or relocation of any bank or branch office and any change-in-control of an insured bank that is not
subject to review by the Federal Reserve as a holding company regulator. The FDIA also gives the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC power to issue cease and desist orders against banks, holding companies or persons regarded as “institution
affiliated parties.” A cease and desist order can either prohibit such entities from engaging in certain unsafe and unsound bank activity or can require them to take certain affirmative action. The appropriate federal regulatory authority with
respect to each bank also supervises compliance with the provisions of federal law and regulations which, in addition to other requirements, place restrictions on loans by FDIC-insured banks (and their affiliates’) to their directors, executive
officers and principal shareholders.  Prompt Corrective Action. The FDIA requires the federal banking regulators to
take prompt corrective action with respect to depository institutions that fall below minimum capital standards and prohibits any depository institution from making any capital distribution that would cause it to be undercapitalized. Institutions
that are not adequately capitalized may be subject to a variety of supervisory actions including, but not limited to, restrictions on growth, investment activities, capital distributions and management fees and will be required to submit a capital
restoration plan which, to be accepted by the regulators, must be guaranteed in part by any company having control of the institution (such as the Company). In other respects, the FDIA provides for enhanced supervisory authority, including authority
for the appointment of a conservator or receiver for undercapitalized institutions. The capital-based prompt corrective action provisions of the FDIA and their implementing regulations generally apply to all FDIC-insured depository institutions.
However, federal banking agencies have indicated that, in regulating bank holding companies, the agencies may take appropriate action at the holding company level based on their assessment of the effectiveness of supervisory actions imposed upon
subsidiary insured depository institutions pursuant to the prompt corrective action provisions of the FDIA.  Standards for
Safety and Soundness. The FDIA requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to prescribe standards of safety and soundness, by regulations or guidelines, relating generally to operations and management, asset growth, asset quality, earnings,
stock valuation and compensation. The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted a set of guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards pursuant to the FDIA. The guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and
information systems, informational security, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things,
appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts
paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. Additional restrictions on compensation applied to the Company as a result of its participation in the CPP. As
a result of the Company’s exit from the CPP, these restrictions have been 
  10 



terminated. See “Extraordinary Government Programs — Capital Purchase Program.” However, the Dodd-Frank Act also imposes restrictions on and additional disclosure regarding
incentive compensation. In addition, each of the Federal Reserve and the OCC adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, the Federal Reserve or the OCC, as the case may be, to order an institution that has been given notice by the
Federal Reserve or the OCC, as the case may be, that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in
any material respect to implement an accepted compliance plan, the Federal Reserve or the OCC, as the case may be, must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an
under-capitalized association is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of the FDIA. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the Federal Reserve or the OCC, as the case may be, may seek to enforce such order
in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. The Federal Reserve, the OCC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies also adopted guidelines for asset quality and earnings standards. 
Other FDIA Provisions. A range of other provisions in the FDIA include requirements applicable to: closure of branches; additional
disclosures to depositors with respect to terms and interest rates applicable to deposit accounts; uniform regulations for extensions of credit secured by real estate; restrictions on activities of and investments by state-chartered banks;
modification of accounting standards to conform to generally accepted accounting principles including the reporting of off-balance sheet items and supplemental disclosure of estimated fair market value of assets and liabilities in financial
statements filed with the banking regulators; increased penalties in making or failing to file assessment reports with the FDIC; and increased reporting requirements on agricultural loans and loans to small businesses. 
In addition, the federal banking agencies adopted a final rule, which modified the risk-based capital standards, to provide for
consideration of interest rate risk when assessing the capital adequacy of a bank. Under this rule, federal regulators and the FDIC must explicitly include a bank’s exposure to declines in the economic value of its capital due to changes in
interest rates as a factor in evaluating a bank’s capital adequacy. The federal banking agencies also have adopted a joint agency policy statement providing guidance to banks for managing interest rate risk. The policy statement emphasizes the
importance of adequate oversight by management and a sound risk management process. The assessment of interest rate risk management made by the banks’ examiners will be incorporated into the banks’ overall risk management rating and used
to determine the effectiveness of management.  Insurance of Deposit Accounts. Under the FDIA, as an FDIC-insured
institution, each of the banks is required to pay deposit insurance premiums based on the risk it poses to the DIF. Each institution’s assessment rate depends on the capital category and supervisory category to which it is assigned. The FDIC
has authority to raise or lower assessment rates on insured deposits in order to achieve statutorily required reserve ratios in the DIF and to impose special additional assessments. In light of the significant increase in depository institution
failures in 2008, 2009 and 2010 and the temporary increase of general deposit insurance limits to $250,000 per depositor (made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act), the DIF incurred substantial losses during recent years. The Dodd-Frank Act also
contains several provisions that affect deposit insurance premiums, including a change in the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to average total consolidated assets less average tangible equity and an
increase in the minimum reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits (with the FDIC having until September 30, 2020 to meet the new minimum) and the deletion of the statutory cap for the reserve ratio. On December 14,
2010, the FDIC released a final rule setting the designated reserve ratio at 2%, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule implementing the changes to the deposit assessment base under the
Dodd-Frank Act. Under the final rule, which was effective on April 1, 2011, the change in the assessment base definition is accompanied by a change in assessment rates, which will initially range from 2.5 basis points to 45 basis points. The
FDIC has indicated that these changes will generally not require an increase in the level of assessments, and may result in decreased assessments, for depository institutions (such as each of our bank subsidiaries) with less than $10 billion in
assets. However, there is a risk that the banks’ deposit insurance premiums will continue to increase if failures of insured depository institutions continue to deplete the DIF. 
In addition, the Deposit Insurance Fund Act of 1996 authorizes the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF
assessable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations. The amount assessed is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance under the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedule. FICO assessment
rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. The FICO annualized assessment rate is 0.66 cents per $100 of deposits for the first quarter of 2012.  Deposit insurance may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that an institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated
any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. Such terminations can only occur, if contested, following judicial review through the federal courts. The management of each of the banks does not know of any practice,
condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance.  Under the “cross-guarantee” provision
of the FDIA, as augmented by the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions such as the banks may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss or reasonably anticipated
loss incurred by the FDIC resulting from the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. The banks are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision. 
  11 


De Novo Branching. The Dodd-Frank Act amended the FDIA and the National Bank Act to
allow national banks and state banks, with the approval of their regulators, to establish de novo branches in states other than the bank’s home state as if such state was the bank’s home state. 
Bank Regulation; Additional Regulation of Dividends  As Illinois state-chartered banks, Lake Forest Bank, North Shore Bank, Hinsdale Bank, Libertyville Bank, Northbrook Bank, Village Bank, Wheaton Bank, State Bank of The Lakes and St. Charles Bank, each may
not pay dividends in an amount greater than its current net profits after deducting bad debts out of undivided profits provided that its surplus equals or exceeds its capital. For the purpose of determining the amount of dividends that an Illinois
bank may pay, bad debts are defined as debts upon which interest is past due and unpaid for a period of six months or more unless such debts are well-secured and in the process of collection. As a Wisconsin state-chartered bank, Town Bank may
declare dividends out of its undivided profits, after provision for payment of all expenses, losses, required reserves, taxes and interest. In addition, if Town Bank’s dividends declared and paid in either of the prior two years exceeded net
income for such year, then the bank may not declare a dividend that exceeds year-to-date net income except with written consent of the Wisconsin Division of Financial Institutions. Furthermore, federal regulations also prohibit any Federal Reserve
member bank, including each of the Company’s Illinois-chartered banks and Town Bank, from declaring dividends in any calendar year in excess of its net income for the year plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, less any
required transfers to the surplus account unless there is approval by the Federal Reserve. Similarly, as national associations supervised by the OCC, each of Barrington Bank, Crystal Lake Bank, Beverly Bank, Schaumburg Bank, Old Plank Trail Bank and
CTC may not declare dividends in any year in excess of its net income for the year plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, minus the sum of any transfers required by the OCC and any transfers required to be made to a fund for the
retirement of any preferred stock, nor may any of them declare a dividend in excess of undivided profits. Furthermore, the OCC may, after notice and opportunity for hearing, prohibit the payment of a dividend by a national bank if it determines that
such payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or if it determines that the institution is undercapitalized.  In
addition to the foregoing, the ability of the Company, the banks and CTC to pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and noncapital standards established under the FDIA, as described above. The right
of the Company, its shareholders and its creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries. The Company’s ability to pay
dividends is likely to be dependent on the amount of dividends paid by the banks. No assurance can be given that the banks will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to the Company.  Bank Regulation; Other Regulation of Financial Institutions  Anti-Money
Laundering. On October 26, 2001, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “PATRIOT Act”) was enacted into law, amending in part the Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”). The BSA and the PATRIOT Act contain anti-money laundering
(“AML”) and financial transparency laws as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including: standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to promote
cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; reports by nonfinancial entities and businesses filed with the Treasury’s Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network for transactions exceeding $10,000; and due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain, or manage private bank accounts or correspondence accounts for non-U.S. persons. Each bank is subject
to the PATRIOT Act and, therefore, is required to provide its employees with AML training, designate an AML compliance officer and undergo an annual, independent audit to assess the effectiveness of its AML Program. The Company has established
policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with these AML requirements.  Protection of Client
Information. Many aspects of the Company’s business are subject to increasingly comprehensive legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain client information including those adopted pursuant to the GLB Act as well as the
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the “FACT Act”), which amended the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”). Provisions of the GLB Act require a financial institution to disclose its privacy policy to
consumer-purpose customers and require that such customers be given a choice (through an opt-out notice) to forbid certain types of sharing of nonpublic personal information about them with certain nonaffiliated third persons. The Company and each
of our banks and operating subsidiaries have a written privacy notice that is delivered to each of their customers when customer relationships begin, and annually thereafter, in compliance with the GLB Act. In accordance with that privacy notice,
the Company and each of the banks protect the security of information about their customers, educate their employees about the importance of protecting customer privacy, and allow their customers to opt out of certain types of information sharing.
The Company and each of the banks require business partners with whom they share such information to have adequate security safeguards and to abide by the redisclosure and reuse provisions of the GLB Act. The Company and each of the banks have
developed and implemented programs to fulfill the expressed requests of customers and consumers to opt out of information sharing subject to the GLB Act. The federal banking regulators have interpreted the requirements of the GLB Act to require
banks to take, and the Company and the banks are subject to state law requirements that require them to take, certain actions in the event that certain information about customers is compromised. If the federal or state regulators of the financial
subsidiaries establish further guidelines for addressing customer privacy issues, the Company and/or each of the banks may need to amend their privacy policies and adapt their internal procedures. The Company and the banks may also be subject to
additional requirements under state laws. 
  12 


Moreover, like other lending institutions, the banks and certain other of our operating
subsidiaries utilize credit bureau data in their underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated under the FCRA, and the FCRA also regulates credit reporting, prescreening, sharing of information between affiliates, and the use of affiliate
data for marketing purposes. The FCRA was amended by the FACT Act in 2003, which added a number of regulatory requirements. The Company, the banks and certain of our operating subsidiaries may also be subject to additional requirements under similar
state laws.  Community Reinvestment. Under the CRA, a financial institution has a continuing and affirmative
obligation, consistent with the safe and sound operation of such institution, to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or
programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. However, institutions are
rated on their performance in meeting the needs of their communities. Performance is judged in three areas: (a) a lending test, to evaluate the institution’s record of making loans in its assessment areas; (b) an investment test, to
evaluate the institution’s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing and programs benefiting low or moderate income individuals and business; and (c) a service test, to evaluate the institution’s
delivery of services through its branches, ATMs and other offices. The CRA requires each federal banking agency, in connection with its examination of a financial institution, to assess and assign one of four ratings to the institution’s record
of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications by the institution, including applications for charters, branches and other deposit facilities, relocations, mergers,
consolidations, acquisitions of assets or assumptions of liabilities, and bank and savings association acquisitions. An unsatisfactory record of performance may be the basis for denying or conditioning approval of an application by a financial
institution or its holding company. The CRA also requires that all institutions make public disclosure of their CRA ratings. Each of the banks received a “satisfactory” or better rating from the Federal Reserve or the OCC on their most
recent CRA performance evaluations except for North Shore which received a “needs improvement” rating. In response to this rating, North Shore has undertaken numerous efforts to improve the results of the next CRA evaluation, including,
but not limited to, increased community development lending, investments and services, increased outreach, an enhanced marketing effort for low and moderate income communities and individuals, enhanced CRA training for bank staff and implementation
of strong internal monitoring to proactively track progress. Because one of the banks received a “needs to improve” rating on its most recent CRA performance evaluation, and given the Company’s holding company status, the Company is
now subject to restrictions on further expansion of the Company’s or the banks’ activities.  Federal Reserve
System. The banks are subject to Federal Reserve regulations requiring depository institutions to maintain interest-bearing reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). As of December 31, 2011,
the first $11.5 million of otherwise reservable balances (subject to adjustments by the Federal Reserve for each of the banks) are exempt from the reserve requirements. A 3% reserve ratio applies to balances over $11.5 million up to and including
$71.0 million and a 10% reserve ratio applies to balances in excess of $71.0 million.  Brokered Deposits. Well
capitalized institutions are not subject to limitations on brokered deposits, while adequately capitalized institutions are able to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits only with a waiver from the FDIC and subject to certain restrictions on
the rate paid on such deposits. Undercapitalized institutions are not permitted to accept brokered deposits. An adequately capitalized institution that receives a waiver is not permitted to offer interest rates on brokered deposits significantly
exceeding the market rates in the institution’s home area or nationally, and undercapitalized institutions may not solicit any deposits by offering such rates. Each of the banks is eligible to accept brokered deposits (as a result of their
capital levels) and may use this funding source from time to time when management deems it appropriate from an asset/liability management perspective.  Enforcement Actions. Federal and state statutes and regulations provide financial institution regulatory agencies with great flexibility to undertake enforcement action against an institution that
fails to comply with regulatory requirements, particularly capital requirements. Possible enforcement actions include the imposition of a capital plan and capital directive to civil money penalties, cease and desist orders, receivership,
conservatorship or the termination of deposit insurance.  Compliance with Consumer Protection Laws. The banks are also
subject to many federal consumer protection statutes and regulations including the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Consumer
Financial Protection Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and analogous state statutes, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. Wintrust Mortgage, as
a division of Barrington Bank, must also comply with many of these consumer protection statutes and regulations. Violation of these statutes can lead to significant potential liability, in litigation by consumers as well as enforcement actions by
regulators. Among other things, these acts:   


 
•
 
 require creditors to disclose credit terms in accordance with legal requirements; 
 


 
•
 
 require banks to disclose deposit account terms and electronic fund transfer terms in accordance with legal requirements;
  


 
•
 
 limit consumer liability for unauthorized transactions; 
 


 
•
 
 impose requirements and limitations on the users of credit reports and those who provide information to credit reporting agencies;

  13 




 
•
 
 prohibit discrimination against an applicant in any consumer or business credit transaction; 
 


 
•
 
 prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices; 
 


 
•
 
 require banks to collect and report applicant and borrower data regarding loans for home purchases or improvement projects;
  


 
•
 
 require lenders to provide borrowers with information regarding the nature and cost of real estate settlements; 
 


 
•
 
 prohibit certain lending practices and limit escrow amounts with respect to real estate transactions; and 
 


 
•
 
 prescribe possible penalties for violations of the requirements of consumer protection statutes and regulations. 
During the past several years, federal regulators finalized a number of significant amendments to the regulations implementing these
statutes. Among other things, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC have adopted new rules applicable to the banks (and in some cases, Wintrust Mortgage, as a division of Barrington Bank) that govern various aspects of consumer credit and rules
that govern practices and disclosures with respect to overdraft programs. These rules may affect the profitability of our consumer banking activities.  There are currently pending proposals to further amend some of these statutes and their implementing regulations, and there may be additional proposals or final amendments in 2011 or beyond. The
Dodd-Frank Act established the Bureau within the Federal Reserve, and both transferred to the Bureau existing regulatory and supervisory authority with respect to many of these regulations, and gave the Bureau new authority under the Consumer
Financial Protection Act. The Bureau may change existing regulations or issue new regulations or interpretations. In addition, other federal and state regulators have issued, and may in the future issue, guidance on these requirements, or other
aspects of the Company’s business. The developments may impose additional burdens on the Company and its subsidiaries. 
Transactions with Affiliates. Transactions between a bank and its holding company or other affiliates are subject to various
restrictions imposed by state and federal regulatory agencies. Such transactions include loans and other extensions of credit, purchases of or investments in securities and other assets, and payments of fees or other distributions. In general, these
restrictions limit the amount of transactions between an institution and an affiliate of such institution, as well as the aggregate amount of transactions between an institution and all of its affiliates, and require transactions with affiliates to
be on terms comparable to those for transactions with unaffiliated entities. Transactions between banking affiliates may be subject to certain exemptions under applicable federal law. 
Limitations on Ownership. Under the Illinois Banking Act, any person who acquires 25% or more of the Company’s stock may be
required to obtain the prior approval of the Illinois Secretary. Similarly, under the Federal Change in Bank Control Act, a person must give 60 days written notice to the Federal Reserve and may be required to obtain the prior regulatory consent of
the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of 10% or more of any class of the Company’s outstanding stock. Generally, an acquisition of more than  10% of the Company’s stock by a corporate entity, including a corporation, partnership or trust, and more than 5% of the Company’s stock by a bank holding company, would require prior Federal
Reserve approval under the BHC Act.  Enhanced Supervisory Procedures for De Novo Banks. In August 2009, the FDIC
adopted enhanced supervisory procedures for de novo banks, which extended the special supervisory period for such banks from three to seven years. Throughout the de novo period, newly chartered banks will be subject to higher capital
requirements, more frequent examinations and other requirements.  Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation 
WHI and Great Lakes Advisors are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state securities laws. WHI is registered as a
broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Both WHI and Great Lakes Advisors are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. In addition, WHI is a member of several self-regulatory
organizations (“SROs”), including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and the Chicago Stock Exchange. Although WHI is required to be registered with the SEC, much of its regulation has been delegated to SROs
that the SEC oversees, including FINRA and the national securities exchanges. In addition to SEC rules and regulations, the SROs adopt rules, subject to approval of the SEC, that govern all aspects of business in the securities industry and conduct
periodic examinations of member firms. WHI is also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in states in which it conducts business. WHI and Great Lakes Advisors are registered only with the SEC as investment advisers, but certain of
their advisory personnel are subject to regulation by state securities regulatory agencies.  As a result of federal and state
registrations and SRO memberships, WHI is subject to over-lapping schemes of regulation which cover all aspects of its securities businesses. Such regulations cover, among other things, minimum net capital requirements; uses and safekeeping of
clients’ funds; record-keeping and reporting requirements; supervisory and organizational procedures intended to assure compliance with securities laws and to prevent improper trading on material nonpublic information; personnel-related
matters, including qualification and licensing of supervisory and sales personnel; limitations on extensions of credit in securities transactions; clearance and settlement procedures; “suitability” determinations as to certain customer
transactions; limitations on the amounts and types of fees and commissions that may be charged to customers; and regulation of proprietary trading activities and affiliate 
  14 



transactions. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or
registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of a broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar actions by both federal and state securities administrators, as well as the SROs. 
As a registered broker-dealer, WHI is subject to the SEC’s net capital rule as well as the net capital requirements of the SROs of
which it is a member. Net capital rules, which specify minimum capital requirements, are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net assets be kept in relatively liquid
form. Rules of FINRA and other SROs also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations’ assets. Compliance with net capital requirements may limit the Company’s operations requiring the intensive use of
capital. These requirements restrict the Company’s ability to withdraw capital from WHI, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. WHI is a member of the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”), which subject to certain limitations, serves to oversee the liquidation of a member brokerage firm, and to return missing cash, stock and other securities owed to the firm’s
brokerage customers, in the event a member broker-dealer fails. The general SIPC protection for customers’ securities accounts held by a member broker-dealer is up to $500,000 for each eligible customer, including a maximum of $250,000 for cash
claims. SIPC does not protect brokerage customers against investment losses.  The Wintrust Mortgage division of Barrington
Bank and WHI in its capacity as an investment adviser, are subject to regulations covering matters such as transactions between clients, transactions between the adviser and clients, custody of client assets and management of mutual funds and other
client accounts. The principal purpose of regulation and discipline of investment firms is the protection of customers, clients and the securities markets rather than the protection of creditors and stockholders of investment firms. Sanctions that
may be imposed for failure to comply with laws or regulations governing investment advisers include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on an adviser’s engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of
time, the revocation of registrations, other censures and fines.  Monetary Policy and Economic Conditions. The earnings
of banks and bank holding companies are affected by general economic conditions and also by the credit policies of the Federal Reserve. Through open market transactions, variations in the discount rate and the establishment of reserve requirements,
the Federal Reserve exerts considerable influence over the cost and availability of funds obtainable for lending or investing. The Federal Reserve’s monetary policies and other government programs have affected the operating results of all
commercial banks in the past and are expected to do so in the future. The Company and the banks cannot fully predict the nature or the extent of any effects which fiscal or monetary policies may have on their business and earnings. 
Beginning in 2008 and continuing into 2011, there was significant disruption of credit markets on a national and global scale. Liquidity
in credit markets was severely depressed. Major financial institutions sought bankruptcy protection, and a number of banks have failed and been placed into receivership or acquired. Other major financial institutions — including Fannie Mae,
Freddie Mac, and AIG — have been entirely or partially nationalized by the federal government. The economic conditions in 2008 and 2009 have also affected consumers and businesses, including their ability to repay loans. This has been
particularly true in the mortgage area. Real estate values have decreased in many areas of the country. There has been a large increase in mortgage defaults and foreclosure filings on a nationwide basis. 
In response to these events, there have also been an unprecedented number of governmental initiatives designed to respond to the stresses
experienced in financial markets in 2008 and 2009. Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and other agencies have taken a number of steps to enhance the liquidity support available to financial institutions. The Company and the banks have
participated in some of these programs, such as the CPP under the TARP. There have been other initiatives that have had an effect on credit markets generally, even though the Company has not participated. Most of these programs were discontinued in
2010. Federal and state regulators have also issued guidance encouraging banks and other mortgage lenders to make accommodations and re-work mortgage loans in order to avoid foreclosure. Additional guidance and other modifications issued under these
foreclosure mitigation programs may affect the Company in 2012.  Employees 
At December 31, 2011, the Company and its subsidiaries employed a total of 2,933 full-time-equivalent employees. The Company
provides its employees with comprehensive medical and dental benefit plans, life insurance plans, 401(k) plans and an employee stock purchase plan. The Company considers its relationship with its employees to be good. 
Available Information  The Company’s Internet address is www.wintrust.com. The Company makes available at this address, free of charge, its annual report on Form 10-K, its annual reports to shareholders, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished
to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 
  15 


Supplemental Statistical Data 
The following statistical information is provided in accordance with the requirements of The Securities Act Industry Guide 3, Statistical
Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies, which is part of Regulation S-K as promulgated by the SEC. This data should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto, and Management’s Discussion
and Analysis which are contained in this Form 10-K.  Investment Securities Portfolio 
The following table presents the carrying value of the Company’s available-for-sale securities portfolio, by investment category, as
of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
















(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 U.S. Treasury
  
$
16,173
  
  
$
96,097
  
  
$
110,816
  

 U.S. Government agencies
  
 
765,916
  
  
 
884,055
  
  
 
576,176
  

 Municipal
  
 
60,098
  
  
 
52,303
  
  
 
65,336
  

 Corporate notes and other:
  



  



  




 Financial issuers
  
 
142,644
  
  
 
187,007
  
  
 
41,746
  

 Retained subordinated securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
47,702
  

 Other
  
 
27,292
  
  
 
74,908
  
  
 
—
  

 Mortgage-backed: (1)
  



  



  




 Agency
  
 
218,612
  
  
 
158,653
  
  
 
216,544
  

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
29,939
  
  
 
3,028
  
  
 
107,984
  

 Non-agency CMOs—Alt A
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
50,778
  

 Other equity securities
  
 
31,123
  
  
 
40,251
  
  
 
37,984
  

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
1,291,797
  
  
$
1,496,302
  
  
$
1,255,066
  
  


(1)
 Consisting entirely of residential mortgage-backed securities, none of which are subprime. 
Tables presenting the carrying amounts and gross unrealized gains and losses for securities available-for-sale at December 31, 2011
and 2010 are included by reference to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference. The fair value of available-for-sale securities as of
December 31, 2011, by maturity distribution, is as follows:   





$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000


(Dollars in thousands)
  
Within 1year
 
  
From 1 to5 years
 
  
From 5 to10 years
 
  
After 10years
 
  
Mortgage-backed
 
  
OtherEquities
 
  
Total
 

 U.S. Treasury
  
$
10,019
  
  
 
6,154
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
16,173  
  

 U.S. Government agencies
  
 
71,188
  
  
 
423,043
  
  
 
33,401
  
  
 
238,284
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
765,916  
  

 Municipal
  
 
16,244
  
  
 
19,735
  
  
 
11,431
  
  
 
12,688
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
60,098  
  

 Corporate notes and other:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Financial issuers
  
 
14,372
  
  
 
64,247
  
  
 
50,676
  
  
 
13,349
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
142,644  
  

 Other
  
 
9,839
  
  
 
17,453
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
27,292  
  

 Mortgage-backed: (1)
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Agency
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
218,612
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
218,612  
  

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
29,939
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
29,939  
  

 Other equity securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
31,123
  
  
 
31,123  
  

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
121,662
  
  
 
530,632
  
  
 
95,508
  
  
 
264,321
  
  
 
248,551
  
  
 
31,123
  
  
 
1,291,797  
  
  


(1)
 Consisting entirely of residential mortgage-backed securities, none of which are subprime. 
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities of securities, on a tax-equivalent basis, is shown below as of December 31,
2011:   





$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000


  
  
Within1 year
 
 
From 1to 5 years
 
 
From 5 to10 years
 
 
After10 years
 
 
Mortgage-backed
 
 
OtherEquities
 
 
Total
 

 U.S. Treasury
  
 
0.21
% 
 
 
1.31
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.63
% 

 U.S. Government agencies
  
 
0.44
% 
 
 
0.62
% 
 
 
3.84
% 
 
 
3.54
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.65
% 

 Municipal
  
 
2.24
% 
 
 
3.97
% 
 
 
4.76
% 
 
 
6.97
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4.29
% 

 Corporate notes and other:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Financial issuers
  
 
4.00
% 
 
 
1.75
% 
 
 
3.50
% 
 
 
5.77
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2.97
% 

 Other
  
 
1.66
% 
 
 
2.67
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2.31
% 

 Mortgage-backed: (1)
  



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4.25
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
4.25
% 

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.63
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.63
% 

 Other equity securities
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3.98
% 
 
 
3.98
% 

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
 
1.18
% 
 
 
0.96
% 
 
 
3.77
% 
 
 
3.82
% 
 
 
3.93
% 
 
 
3.98
% 
 
 
2.42
% 
  


(1)
 Consisting entirely of residential mortgage-backed securities, none of which are subprime. 
  16 




ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  An
investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Wintrust are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the
risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently deems immaterial
may also impair Wintrust’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and
adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our securities could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.  Risks Related to Our Business and Operating Environment  Difficult economic conditions have adversely affected our company and the financial services industry in general and further deterioration in economic conditions may materially adversely affect our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  The U.S. economy was in a recession from the
third quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2009, and economic activity continues to be restrained. The housing and real estate markets have also been experiencing extraordinary slowdowns since 2007. Additionally, unemployment rates remained
historically high during these periods. These factors have had a significant negative effect on us and other companies in the financial services industry. As a lending institution, our business is directly affected by the ability of our borrowers to
repay their loans, as well as by the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures many of our loans. Market turmoil has led to an increase in charge-offs and has negatively impacted consumer confidence and the level of business activity.
However, net charge-offs decreased to $103.3 million in 2011 from $109.7 million in 2010 and non-performing loans decreased to $120.1 million as of December 31, 2011 from $142.0 million as of December 31, 2010. Our balance of other real
estate owned (“OREO”) was  $86.5 million at December 31, 2011 and $71.2 million at December 31, 2010.
Continued weakness or further deterioration in the economy, real estate markets or unemployment rates, particularly in the markets in which we operate, will likely diminish the ability of our borrowers to repay loans that we have given them, the
value of any collateral securing such loans and may cause increases in delinquencies, problem assets, charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Further, the underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted may not prevent losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
Since our business is concentrated in the Chicago metropolitan area and southeast Wisconsin
metropolitan areas, further declines in the economy of this region could adversely affect our business.  Except for
our premium finance business and certain other niche businesses, our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more
geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Chicago metropolitan and southeast Wisconsin metropolitan areas. The local economic conditions in these areas significantly impact the demand for our
products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Specifically, most of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate
located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Our local market area has experienced recent negative changes in overall market conditions relating to real estate valuation. These market conditions are exacerbated by the liquidation of troubled assets
into the market, which creates additional supply and drives appraised valuations of real estate lower. Further declines in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors impacting
these local markets could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for our mortgage loans is located could adversely affect the
borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan, and in turn the value of our assets.  If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb losses that may occur in our loan portfolio, our financial condition and liquidity could suffer. 
We maintain an allowance for loan losses that is intended to absorb credit losses that we expect to incur in our loan portfolio. At each
balance sheet date, our management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses based on our estimate of probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, taking into account probable losses that have been identified relating
to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified.  Because our allowance for loan losses represents an estimate of probable losses, there is no certainty that it will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in the portfolio, particularly if there is
continued deterioration in general economic or market conditions or events that adversely affect specific customers. In 2011, we charged off $103.3 million in loans (net of recoveries) and decreased our allowance for loan losses from $113.9 million
at December 31, 2010 to $110.4 million at December 31, 2011. Our allowance for loan losses, excluding covered loans, represents 1.05% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 2011, compared to 1.19% at December 31, 2010.
Estimating loan loss allowances for our newer banks is more difficult because rapidly growing and de novo 
  17 


bank loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. Therefore, our newer bank
subsidiaries may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than banks with more seasoned loan portfolios.  Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, if our estimates are inaccurate and our actual loan losses exceed the
amount that is anticipated, our financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.  For more
information regarding our allowance for loan losses, see “Loan Portfolio and Asset Quality” under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
A significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial loans, the repayment of
which is largely dependent upon the financial success and economic viability of the borrower.  The repayment of our
commercial loans is dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower. If the economy remains weak for a prolonged period or experiences further deterioration or if the industry or market in which the borrower operates weakens, our
borrowers may experience depressed or dramatic and sudden decreases in revenues that could hinder their ability to repay their loans. Our commercial loan portfolio totaled $2.5 billion, or 22% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2011,
compared to $2.0 billion, or 21% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2010.  Commercial loans are secured by
different types of collateral related to the underlying business, such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment. Should a commercial loan require us to foreclose on the underlying collateral, the unique nature of the collateral may make it
more difficult and costly to liquidate, thereby increasing the risk to us of not recovering the principal amount of the loan. Accordingly, our business, results of operation and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by defaults in
this portfolio.  A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate,
in particular commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets could lead to additional losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
As of December 31, 2011, approximately 31% of our total loan portfolio was secured by real estate, compared to approximately 34% as
of December 31, 2010, the majority of which is commercial real estate. The commercial and residential real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties. In particular, market conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area, in
which a majority of our real estate loans are concentrated, have declined significantly beginning in 2007. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, which reduce the customer’s
borrowing power and the value of the collateral securing the loan, for the last five years, we have experienced higher than normal levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or
continued declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.  Unanticipated changes in prevailing interest rates and the effects of
changing regulation could adversely affect our net interest income, which is our largest source of income.  Wintrust
is exposed to interest rate risk in its core banking activities of lending and deposit taking, since changes in prevailing interest rates affect the value of our assets and liabilities. Such changes may adversely affect our net interest income,
which is the difference between interest income and interest expense. Our net interest income is affected by the fact that assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. Net interest income
represents our largest source of net income, and was $461.4 million and $415.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Each of our businesses may be affected differently by a given change in interest rates. For example, we expect that the results of our mortgage banking business in selling loans into the secondary market
would be negatively impacted during periods of rising interest rates, whereas falling interest rates could have a negative impact on the net interest spread earned on deposits as we would be unable to lower the rates on many interest bearing deposit
accounts of our customers to the same extent as many of our higher yielding asset classes.  Additionally, increases in
interest rates may adversely influence the growth rate of loans and deposits, the quality of our loan portfolio, loan and deposit pricing, the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking business and the value that we can recognize on the
sale of mortgage loans in the secondary market.  We seek to mitigate our interest rate risk through several strategies, which
may not be successful. With the relatively low interest rates that prevailed in recent years, we were able to augment the total return of our investment securities portfolio by selling call options on fixed-income securities that we own. We recorded
fee income of approximately $13.6 million, $2.2 million and $2.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We also mitigate our interest rate risk by entering into interest rate

  18 



swaps and other interest rate derivative contracts from time to time with counterparties. To the extent that the market value of any derivative contract moves to a negative market value, we are
subject to loss if the counterparty defaults. In the future, there can be no assurance that such mitigation strategies will be available or successful. 
Our liquidity position may be negatively impacted if economic conditions continue to suffer.
 Liquidity is a measure of whether our cash flows and liquid assets are sufficient to satisfy current and future
financial obligations, such as demand for loans, deposit withdrawals and operating costs. Our liquidity position is affected by a number of factors, including the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on
debt and equity instruments that we have issued, capital we inject into our bank subsidiaries, proceeds we raise through the issuance of securities, our ability to draw upon our revolving credit facility and dividends received from our banking
subsidiaries. Our future liquidity position may be adversely affected by multiple factors, including:   


 
•
 
 if our banking subsidiaries report net losses or their earnings are weak relative to our cash flow needs; 
 


 
•
 
 if it is necessary for us to make capital injections to our banking subsidiaries; 
 


 
•
 
 if changes in regulations require us to maintain a greater level of capital, as more fully described below; 
 


 
•
 
 if we are unable to access our revolving credit facility due to a failure to satisfy financial and other covenants; or 
 


 
•
 
 if we are unable to raise additional capital on terms that are satisfactory to us. 
Continued weakness or worsening of the economy, real estate markets or unemployment levels may increase the likelihood that one or more of
these events will occur. If our liquidity is adversely effected, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
The financial services industry is very competitive, and if we are not able to compete effectively,
we may lose market share and our business could suffer.  We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits,
making loans, and providing other financial services (including wealth management services) throughout our market area. Our competitors include national, regional and other community banks, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as
credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, factoring companies and other non-bank financial companies. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and market presence than Wintrust
and, as a result of their size, may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of
legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic
transfer and payment systems, and for banks that do not have a physical presence in our markets to compete for deposits.  Our
ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:   


 
•
 
 the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service and high ethical standards;
  


 
•
 
 the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; 
 


 
•
 
 the ability to expand our market position;   


 
•
 
 the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 customer satisfaction with our level of service; and 
 


 
•
 
 industry and general economic trends.  If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and income from deposits, loans and other products may be reduced. This could adversely affect our profitability and have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  19 


If we are unable to continue to identify favorable
acquisitions or successfully integrate our acquisitions, our growth may be limited and our results of operations could suffer.  In the past several years, we have completed numerous acquisitions of banks, other financial service related companies and financial service related assets, including acquisitions of troubled financial
institutions, as more fully described below. We expect to continue to make such acquisitions in the future. Wintrust seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant
market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Failure to successfully identify and complete acquisitions likely will result in Wintrust achieving slower growth.
Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:   


 
•
 
 potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities or asset quality issues of the target company; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; 
 


 
•
 
 potential disruption to our business, including diversion of our management’s time and attention; 
 


 
•
 
 the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and 
 


 
•
 
 potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. 
Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of Wintrust’s
tangible book value and net income per common share may occur as a result of any future transaction. In addition, certain acquisitions may expose us to additional regulatory risks, including from foreign governments. Our ability to comply with any
such regulations will impact the success of any such acquisitions. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
Our participation in FDIC-assisted acquisitions may present additional risks to our financial
condition and results of operations.  As part of our growth strategy, we have made opportunistic partial acquisitions
of troubled financial institutions in transactions facilitated by the FDIC, including our recent acquisitions of Community First Bank, The Bank of Commerce and First Chicago Bank & Trust through our bank subsidiaries. These acquisitions,
and any future FDIC-assisted transactions we may undertake, involve greater risk than traditional acquisitions because they are typically conducted on an accelerated basis, allowing less time for us to prepare for and evaluate possible transactions,
or to prepare for integration of an acquired institution. These transactions also present risks of customer loss, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to the integration of
operations and personnel of the acquired financial institutions. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the financial institutions we acquire, or that we will realize the anticipated benefits of the
acquisitions. Additionally, while the FDIC may agree to assume certain losses in transactions that it facilitates, there can be no assurances that we would not be required to raise additional capital as a condition to, or as a result of,
participation in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Any such transactions and related issuances of stock may have dilutive effect on earnings per share. Furthermore, we may face competition from other financial institutions with respect to proposed
FDIC-assisted transactions.  We are also subject to certain risks relating to our loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. Under
a loss sharing agreement, the FDIC generally agrees to reimburse the acquiring bank for a portion of any losses relating to covered assets of the acquired financial institution. This is an important financial term of any FDIC-assisted transaction,
as troubled financial institutions often have poorer asset quality. As a condition to reimbursement, however, the FDIC requires the acquiring bank to follow certain servicing procedures. A failure to follow servicing procedures or any other breach
of a loss sharing agreement by us could result in the loss of FDIC reimbursement. While we have established a group dedicated to servicing the loans covered by the FDIC loss sharing agreements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
comply with the FDIC servicing procedures. In addition, reimbursable losses and recoveries under loss sharing agreements are based on the book value of the relevant loans and other assets as determined by the FDIC as of the effective dates of the
acquisitions. The amount that the acquiring banks realize on these assets could differ materially from the carrying value that will be reflected in our financial statements, based upon the timing and amount of collections on the covered loans in
future periods. Any failure to receive reimbursement, or any material differences between the amount of reimbursements that we do receive and the carrying value reflected in our financial statements, could have a material negative effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. 
  20 


An actual or perceived reduction in our financial
strength may cause others to reduce or cease doing business with us, which could result in a decrease in our net interest income.  Our customers rely upon our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. If we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including
due to market or regulatory developments, announced or rumored business developments or results of operations, or a decline in stock price, customers may withdraw their deposits or otherwise seek services from other banking institutions and
prospective customers may select other service providers. The risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is increased in the current market environment, where the consolidation of financial institutions,
including major global financial institutions, is resulting in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. If customers reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services that we
provide them, net interest income and fee revenues will decrease accordingly, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 
If our growth requires us to raise additional capital, that capital may not be available when it
is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high.  We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain
adequate levels of capital to support our operations (see “-Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment-If we fail to meet our regulatory capital ratios, we may be forced to raise capital or sell assets”) and as we grow, internally and
through acquisitions, the amount of capital required to support our operations grows as well. We may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth both internally and through acquisitions. Any capital we obtain may result in the
dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will
depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time which are outside our control and on our financial condition and performance. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, or on terms acceptable to us, our ability to further expand our
operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and negatively affected. 
Disruption in the financial markets could result in lower fair values for our investment securities
portfolio.  The Company’s available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value. Major disruptions in the
capital markets experienced in the past three years have adversely affected investor demand for all classes of securities and resulted in volatility in the fair values of the Company’s investment securities. 
Accounting standards require the Company to categorize these according to a fair value hierarchy. Over 96% of the Company’s
available-for-sale securities were categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy (meaning that their fair values were determined by quoted prices for similar assets or other observable inputs). Significant prolonged reduced investor demand
could manifest itself in lower fair values for these securities and may result in recognition of an other-than-temporary or permanent impairment of these assets, which could lead to accounting charges and have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition and results of operations.  The remaining securities in our investment securities portfolio
were categorized as level 3 (meaning that their fair values were determined by inputs that are unobservable in the market and therefore require a greater degree of management judgment). The determination of fair value for securities categorized in
level 3 involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. The current market disruptions make valuation of such securities even more difficult and
subjective. In addition, the nature of the business of the third party source that is valuing the securities at any given time could impact the valuation of the securities. Consequently, the ultimate sales price for any of these securities could
vary significantly from the recorded fair value at December 31, 2011, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption or as part of a large block of securities under a forced transaction. 
There can be no assurance that decline in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or
permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges which could have a material negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
New lines of business and new products and services are essential to our ability to compete but may
subject us to additional risks.  We continually implement new lines of business and offer new products and services
within existing lines of business to offer our customers a competitive array of products and services. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products
and services. The effective use of technology can increase efficiency and enable financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. However, some new technologies needed to compete effectively result in incremental operating
costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations.
Many of our competitors, because of their larger size and available capital, have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be
successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could cause a loss of customers and have a material adverse effect on our
business. 
  21 


At the same time, there can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these
efforts, particularly in instances where the markets for such services are still developing. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products or services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the
introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives,
and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the
effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations.  Failures of our information technology systems
may adversely effect our operations.  We are increasingly depending upon computer and other information technology
systems to manage our business. We rely upon information technology systems to process, record and monitor and disseminate information about our operations. In some cases, we depend on third parties to provide or maintain these systems. While we
perform a review of controls instituted by our critical vendors in accordance with industry standards, we must rely on the continued maintenance of these controls by the outside party, including safeguards over the security of customer data. If any
of our financial, accounting or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Security breaches in our online banking systems could also have an adverse effect on our reputation
and could subject us to possible liability. Our systems may also be affected by events that are beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages or other damage to our property or assets.
Although we take precautions against malfunctions and security breaches, our efforts may not be adequate to prevent problems that could materially adversely effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information we receive about our customers and
counterparties to make credit decisions.  We rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and
counterparties in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions. This information could include financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We also rely on representations of those customers,
counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could have a
material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
If we are unable to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel, our ability to provide
high quality service will be diminished and our results of operations may suffer.  We believe that our future success
depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, including our senior management and other key personnel. Our business model is dependent upon our ability to provide high quality, personal service at our community banks.
In addition, as a holding company that conducts its operations through our subsidiaries, we are focused on providing entrepreneurial-based compensation to the chief executives of each our business units. As a Company with start-up and growth
oriented operations, we are cognizant that to attract and retain the managerial talent necessary to operate and grow our businesses we often have to compensate our executives with a view to the business we expect them to manage, rather than the size
of the business they currently manage. Accordingly, executive compensation restrictions such as those we were subject to during our participation in the CPP, as well any restrictions we may subject to in the future, may negatively impact our ability
to retain and attract senior management. The loss of any of our senior managers or other key personnel, or our inability to identify, recruit and retain such personnel, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with
lending activities.  A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the
ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are
found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we own and operate a number of properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. 
Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and could materially reduce the affected property’s value
or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. The costs associated with investigation and remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be
subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating
any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  22 


Losses incurred in connection with actual or
projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages that we have sold into the secondary market may exceed our financial statement reserves and we may be required to increase such reserves in the future. Increases to our reserves
and losses incurred in connection with actual loan repurchases and indemnification payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. 
We engage in the origination and purchase of residential mortgages for sale into the secondary market. In connection with such sales, we
make certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require us to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. Due, in part, to recent
increased mortgage payment delinquency rates and declining housing prices, we have been receiving such requests for loan repurchases and indemnification payments relating to the representations and warranties with respect to such loans. We have been
able to reach settlements with a number of purchasers, and believe that we have established appropriate reserves with respect to indemnification requests. While we have recently received fewer requests for indemnification, it is possible that the
number of such requests will increase or that we will not be able to reach settlements with respect to such requests in the future. Accordingly, it is possible that losses incurred in connection with loan repurchases and indemnification payments may
be in excess of our financial statement reserves, and we may be required to increase such reserves and may sustain additional losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments in the future. Increases to our reserves and
losses incurred by us in connection with actual loan repurchases and indemnification payments in excess of our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could
adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Technology and other changes are allowing parties to
complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers
can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits
and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
We may be adversely impacted by the soundness of other financial institutions. 
Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure
to many different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including the Federal home Loan bank, commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other
institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition our credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices
not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us. Any such losses could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Europe’s debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and liquidity.  The possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states will default on their debt
obligations have negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience
similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 
De novo operations and branch openings often involve significant expenses and delayed returns and
may negatively impact Wintrust’s profitability.  Our financial results have been and will continue to be impacted
by our strategy of de novo bank formations and branch openings. While the recent financial crisis and interest rate environment has caused us to open fewer de novo banks, we expect to undertake additional de novo bank formations or branch openings
when market conditions improve. Based on our experience, we believe that it generally takes over 13 months for de novo banks to first achieve operational profitability, depending on the number of banking facilities opened, the impact of
organizational and overhead expenses, the start-up phase of generating deposits and the time lag typically involved in redeploying deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. However, it may take longer than
expected or than the amount of time Wintrust has historically experienced for new banks and/or banking facilities to reach profitability, and there can be no guarantee that these new banks or branches will ever be profitable. Moreover, the
FDIC’s recent issuance extending the enhanced supervisory period for de novo banks from three to seven years, including higher capital requirements during this period, could also delay a new bank’s ability to contribute to the
Company’s earnings and impact the Company’s willingness to expand through de novo bank formation. To the extent we undertake additional de novo bank, branch and business formations, our level of reported net income, return on average
equity and return on average assets will be impacted by startup costs associated with such operations, and it is likely to continue to experience the effects of higher expenses relative to operating income from the new operations. These expenses may
be higher than we expected or than our experience has shown, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  23 


We are subject to examinations and challenges by tax
authorities, and changes in federal and state tax laws and changes in interpretation of existing laws can impact our financial results.  In the normal course of business, we, as well as our subsidiaries, are routinely subject to examinations from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with
investments we have made and the businesses in which we have engaged. Recently, federal and state tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to
among other things tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the
timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations. Given the current economic and political environment and ongoing budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing
law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses and credits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards could materially adversely affect how we
report our financial results and financial condition.  Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our
financial results and financial condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require
management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If
such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that
govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or
revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements.  We are a bank holding company, and our sources of funds, including to pay dividends, are limited.  We are a bank holding company and our operations are primarily conducted by and through our 15 operating banks, which are subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay
dividends to our stockholders, repurchase our shares or repay our indebtedness is derived primarily from dividends received from our banks and our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries is restricted. Various statutory provisions
restrict the amount of dividends our banks can pay to us without regulatory approval. The banks may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of their capital below that necessary to meet the “adequately capitalized”
level in accordance with regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending upon the financial condition of the banks and other factors, regulatory authorities could conclude that payment of dividends or other payments, including
payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice and impose restrictions or prohibit such payments. Our inability to receive dividends from the banks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. 
Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and Illinois law may have the effect of impeding the acquisition of control
of Wintrust by means of a tender offer, a proxy fight, open-market purchases or otherwise in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. For example, our board of directors may issue additional authorized shares of our capital stock to
deter future attempts to gain control of Wintrust, including the authority to determine the terms of any one or more series of preferred stock, such as voting rights, conversion rates and liquidation preferences. As a result of the ability to fix
voting rights for a series of preferred stock, the board has the power, to the extent consistent with its fiduciary duty, to issue a series of preferred stock to persons friendly to management in order to attempt to block a merger or other
transaction by which a third party seeks control, and thereby assist the incumbent board of directors and management to retain their respective positions. In addition, our articles of incorporation expressly elect to be governed by the provisions of
Section 7.85 of the Illinois Business Corporation Act, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors.  The ability of a third party to acquire us is also limited under applicable banking regulations. The Bank Holding Company Act of  1956 requires any “bank holding company” (as defined in that Act) to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve prior to acquiring more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. Any person other
than a bank holding company is required to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve to acquire 10% or more of our outstanding common stock under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978. Any holder of 25% or more of our outstanding common stock,
other than an individual, is subject to regulation as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. For purposes of calculating ownership thresholds under these banking regulations, bank regulators would likely at least take the
position that the minimum number of shares, and could take the position that the maximum number of shares, of Wintrust common stock that a holder is entitled to receive pursuant to securities convertible into or settled in Wintrust common stock,
including pursuant to Wintrust’s tangible equity units or warrants to purchase Wintrust common stock held by such holder, must be taken into account in calculating a stockholder’s aggregate holdings of Wintrust common stock. 
  24 


These provisions may have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt that is not
approved by our board of directors but which our individual shareholders may deem to be in their best interests or in which our shareholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices. As a result,
shareholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. Such provisions will also render the removal of our current board of directors or management more difficult. 
Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment 
If we fail to meet our regulatory capital ratios, we may be forced to raise capital or sell assets.
 As a banking institution, we are subject to regulations that require us to maintain certain capital ratios, such as
the ratio of our Tier  1 capital to our risk-based assets. If our regulatory capital ratios decline, as a result of decreases
in the value of our loan portfolio or otherwise, we will be required to improve such ratios by either raising additional capital or by disposing of assets. If we choose to dispose of assets, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so at
prices that we believe to be appropriate, and our future operating results could be negatively affected. If we choose to raise additional capital, we may accomplish this by selling additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into or
exchangeable for common stock, which could significantly dilute the ownership percentage of holders of our common stock and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, events or circumstances in the capital markets generally
may increase our capital costs and impair our ability to raise capital at any given time. 
Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future regarding the financial services
industry may significantly increase our costs or limit our ability to conduct our business in a profitable manner.  We
are already subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. The cost of compliance with such laws and regulations can be substantial and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. While we are unable to predict the scope
or impact of any potential legislation or regulatory action, bills that would result in significant changes to financial institutions have been introduced in Congress and it is possible that such legislation or implementing regulations could
significantly increase our regulatory compliance costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, negatively impact the recoverability of certain of our recorded assets, require us to increase our regulatory capital, interfere with
our executive compensation plans, or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner including our plan for de novo growth and growth through acquisitions. 
President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act on July 21, 2010. This law will significantly change the current bank regulatory
structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations,
including heightened capital requirements, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. Although the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will depend, in part, on the form of these rules and regulations, we expect compliance with the new law to
increase our cost of doing business, and may reduce our ability to generate revenue-producing assets.  The Dodd-Frank Act
changes federal preemption available for national banks and eliminates federal preemption for subsidiaries of national banks, which may subject the Company’s national banks and their subsidiaries, including Wintrust Mortgage, to additional
state regulation. With regard to mortgage lending, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes new requirements regarding the origination and servicing of residential mortgage loans. The law creates a variety of new consumer protections, including limitations on the
manner by which loan originators may be compensated and an obligation of the part of lenders to assess and verify a borrower’s “ability to repay” a residential mortgage loan. 
The Dodd-Frank Act also enhances provisions relating to affiliate and insider lending restrictions and loans-to-one-borrower limitations.
Federal banking law currently limits a national bank’s ability to extend credit to one person (or group of related persons) in an amount exceeding certain thresholds. The Dodd-Frank Act expands the scope of these restrictions to include credit
exposure arising from derivative transactions, repurchase agreements, and securities lending and borrowing transactions. It also eventually will prohibit state-chartered banks (including certain of the Company’s banking subsidiaries) from
engaging in derivative transactions unless the state lending limit laws take into account credit exposure to such transactions. 
Additional provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are described in this report under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview and Strategy—Financial Regulatory Reform.”  Given the
uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies, the full extent of the impact that its requirements will have on our operations is unclear. However, its
requirements may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 
  25 


Financial reform legislation may reduce our ability
to market our products to consumers and may limit our ability to profitably operate our mortgage business.  The
Dodd-Frank Act also establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”) within the Federal Reserve, which will regulate consumer financial products and services. On July 21, 2011, the consumer financial protection
functions currently assigned to the federal banking and other designated agencies shifted to the Bureau. The Bureau now has broad rulemaking authority over a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to banks and thrifts, including the
authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices,” and to enact regulations to ensure that all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial products and services, and that such markets are fair, transparent
and competitive. In particular, the Bureau may enact sweeping reforms in the mortgage broker industry which may increase the costs of engaging in these activities for all market participants, including our subsidiaries. Additionally, the Bureau has
broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority. State attorneys general and other state officials will also be authorized to enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau. 
Recently enacted financial reform legislation will result in increased capital requirements and is
expected to increase our costs of doing business.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the issuance of new banking regulations
regarding the establishment of minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks. These regulations, which are required to be effective within 18 months from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, are required
to be no less stringent than current capital requirements applied to insured depository institutions and may, in fact, be higher when established by the agencies. Although Wintrust’s outstanding trust preferred securities will remain eligible
for Tier 1 capital treatment, any future issuances of trust preferred securities will not be Tier 1 capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the regulatory agencies to seek to make capital requirements for bank holding companies and insured
institutions countercyclical, so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules requiring annual stress tests. If
implemented as proposed, these rules will result in increased compliance costs. 
International initiatives regarding bank capital requirements may require heightened capital
 In December 2010 and January 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published reforms regarding changes to
bank capital, leverage and liquidity requirements, commonly referred to as “Basel III.” The Basel III rules are intended to apply to large, internationally active banking organizations, and are not generally expected to apply to us. If
implemented without change by U.S. banking regulators, the provisions of Basel III may have significant impact on requirements applicable to such large organizations including heightened requirements regarding Tier 1 common equity, and alterations
to bank liquidity standards. In addition, while we do not expect to be subject to Basel III, in implementing Basel III, the U.S. federal banking agencies may decide to make similar changes to the capital requirements applicable to other banking
organizations, including us.  We are not able to predict at this time the content of capital and liquidity guidelines or
regulations that may be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us and our subsidiaries or the impact that any changes in regulation would have on us. If new standards require us or our banking subsidiaries to maintain more capital,
with common equity as a more predominant component, or manage the configuration of our assets and liabilities in order to comply with formulaic liquidity requirements, such regulation could significantly impact our return on equity, financial
condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business opportunities. 
Our FDIC insurance premiums may increase, which could negatively impact our results of operations.
 Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly
increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline of its deposit insurance fund to historical lows. In addition, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended, increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 per depositor
through December 31, 2013 (made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act). These developments have caused our FDIC insurance premiums to increase, and may cause additional increases. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may further affect our FDIC
insurance premiums. The Dodd- Frank Act includes provisions that change the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to average total consolidated assets less average tangible capital, eliminate the maximum
size of the DIF, eliminate the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds, and increase the minimum reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35%. Beginning in late 2010, the
FDIC has issued regulations implementing some of these changes. The FDIC has indicated that the changes to the assessment base, and accompanying changes to the assessment rates, will generally not require an increase in the level of assessments, and
may result in decreased assessments, for depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets (such as each of our bank subsidiaries). However, there is a risk that the banks’ deposit insurance premiums will continue to increase if
failures of insured depository institutions continue to deplete the DIF. Any such increase may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 
  26 


Risks Related to Our Niche Businesses 
Our premium finance business may involve a higher risk of delinquency or collection than our other
lending operations, and could expose us to losses.  We provide financing for the payment of commercial insurance
premiums and life insurance premiums on a national basis through our wholly owned subsidiary, FIFC. Commercial insurance premium finance loans involve a different, and possibly higher, risk of delinquency or collection than life insurance premium
finance loans and the loan portfolios of our bank subsidiaries because these loans are issued primarily through relationships with a large number of unaffiliated insurance agents and because the borrowers are located nationwide. As a result, risk
management and general supervisory oversight may be difficult. As of December 31, 2011, we had $1.4 billion of commercial insurance premium finance loans outstanding, which represented 13% of our total loan portfolio as of such date.
 FIFC may also be more susceptible to third party fraud with respect to commercial insurance premium finance loans because
these loans are originated and many times funded through relationships with unaffiliated insurance agents and brokers. In the second quarter of 2010, fraud perpetrated against a number of premium finance companies in the industry, including the
property and casualty division of FIFC, increased both the Company’s net charge-offs and provision for credit losses by $15.7 million. Acts of fraud are difficult to detect and deter, and we cannot assure investors that FIFC’s risk
management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity.  FIFC may be exposed to the risk of loss in
our life insurance premium finance business because of fraud. While FIFC maintains a policy prohibiting the knowing financing of stranger-originated life insurance and has established procedures to identify and prevent the company from financing
such policies, FIFC cannot be certain that it will never provide loans with respect to such a policy. In the event such policies were financed, a carrier could potentially put at risk the cash surrender value of a policy, which serves as FIFC’s
primary collateral, by challenging the validity of the insurance contract for lack of an insurable interest.  See the below
risk factor “Widespread financial difficulties or credit downgrades among commercial and life insurance providers could lessen the value of the collateral securing our premium finance loans and impair the financial condition and liquidity of
FIFC” for a discussion of further risks associated with our insurance premium finance activities.  While FIFC is licensed
as required and carefully monitors compliance with regulation of each of its businesses, there can be no assurance that FIFC will not be negatively impacted by material changes in the regulatory environment. 
Additionally, to the extent that affiliates of insurance carriers, banks, and other lending institutions add greater service and
flexibility to their financing practices in the future, our competitive position and results of operations could be adversely affected. FIFC’s life insurance premium finance business could be materially negatively impacted by changes in the
federal or state estate tax provisions. There can be no assurance that FIFC will be able to continue to compete successfully in its markets.  Widespread financial difficulties or credit downgrades among commercial and life insurance providers could lessen the value of the collateral securing our premium finance loans and impair the
financial condition and liquidity of FIFC.  FIFC’s premium finance loans are primarily secured by the insurance
policies financed by the loans. These insurance policies are written by a large number of insurance companies geographically dispersed throughout the country. Our premium finance receivables balances finance insurance policies which are spread among
a large number of insurers; however, one of the insurers represents approximately 15% of such balances and one additional insurer represents approximately 5% of such balances. FIFC consistently monitors carrier ratings and financial performance of
our carriers. While FIFC can mitigate its risks as a result of this monitoring to the extent that commercial or life insurance providers experience widespread difficulties or credit downgrades, the value of our collateral will be reduced. FIFC is
also subject to the possibility of insolvency of insurance carriers in the commercial and life insurance businesses that are in possession of our collateral. If one or more large nationwide insurers were to fail, the value of our portfolio could be
significantly negatively impacted. A significant downgrade in the value of the collateral supporting our premium finance business could impair our ability to create liquidity for this business, which, in turn could negatively impact our ability to
expand.  If we fail to comply with certain of our covenants under our securitization
facility, the holders of the related notes could declare a rapid amortization event, which would require us to repay any outstanding amounts immediately, which could significantly impair our liquidity. 
In September 2009, our indirect subsidiary, FIFC Premium Funding I, LLC, sold $600 million in aggregate principal amount of its Series
2009-A Premium Finance Asset Backed Notes, Class A (the “Notes”), which were issued in a securitization transaction sponsored by FIFC. The related indenture contains certain financial and other covenants that must be met in order to
continue to sell notes into the facility. In addition, if any of these covenants are breached, the holders of the Notes may, under certain circumstances, declare a rapid amortization event, which would require us to repay any outstanding notes
immediately. Such an event could significantly impair our liquidity. 
  27 


Our Wealth Management Business in general, and
WHI’s brokerage operation, in particular, exposes us to certain risks associated with the securities industry. 
Our wealth management business in general, and WHI’s brokerage operations in particular, present special risks not borne by community
banks that focus exclusively on community banking. For example, the brokerage industry is subject to fluctuations in the stock market that may have a significant adverse impact on transaction fees, customer activity and investment portfolio gains
and losses. Likewise, additional or modified regulations may adversely affect our wealth management operations. Each of our wealth management operations is dependent on a small number of professionsals whose departure could result in the loss of a
significant number of customer accounts. A significant decline in fees and commissions or trading losses suffered in the investment portfolio could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to claim arbitration risk
arising from customers who claim their investments were not suitable or that their portfolios were too actively traded. These risks increase when the market, as as a whole, declines. The risks associated with retail brokerage may not be supported by
the income generated by our wealth management operations.  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
None.  
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES  The Company’s executive offices are located in the banking facilities of Lake Forest
Bank. Certain corporate functions are also located at the various bank subsidiaries and as well as an office building complex in Rosemont, Illinois acquired by the Company in June 2011. The Company is in the process of occupying the Rosemont
building and anticipates that during 2012 the Company’s corporate headquarters will relocate to the Rosemont building. 
The Company’s banks operate through 99 banking facilities, the majority of which are owned. The Company owns 154 automatic teller
machines, the majority of which are housed at banking locations. The banking facilities are located in communities throughout the Chicago metropolitan area and southern Wisconsin. Excess space in certain properties is leased to third parties.
 The Company’s wealth management subsidiaries have one location in downtown Chicago, one in Appleton, Wisconsin, and one
in Florida, all of which are leased, as well as office locations at various of our banks. Wintrust Mortgage, a division of Barrington Bank, has 37 locations in ten states, all of which are leased, as well as office locations at various of our banks.
FIFC has one location in Northbrook, Illinois which is owned and locations in Jersey City, New Jersey and Long Island, New York which are leased. Tricom has one location in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin which is owned. Wintrust Information Technology
Services Company (“WITS”) has office locations in Villa Park, Illinois and Wood Dale, Illinois, both of which are owned. In addition, the Company owns other real estate acquired for further expansion that, when considered in the aggregate,
is not material to the Company’s financial position.  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
The Company and its subsidiaries, from time to time, are subject to pending and threatened legal action and proceedings arising in the
ordinary course of business. Any such litigation currently pending against the Company or its subsidiaries is incidental to the Company’s business and, based on information currently available to management, management believes the outcome of
such actions or proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the operations or financial position of the Company.  
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  Not applicable. 
  28 


PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
The Company’s common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market under the symbol WTFC. The following table sets forth
the high and low sales prices reported on NASDAQ for the common stock by fiscal quarter during 2011 and 2010.   




















 
  
2011
 
    
2010
 

  
High
 
    
Low
 
    
High
 
    
Low
 

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
30.34
  
    
    $
24.30
  
    
    $
33.97
  
    
    $
28.40
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
34.87
  
    
 
25.68
  
    
 
37.25
  
    
 
27.79
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
37.34
  
    
 
30.08
  
    
 
44.93
  
    
 
33.05
  

 First Quarter
  
 
36.97
  
    
 
31.13
  
    
 
38.47
  
    
 
29.86
  
 Performance Graph  The following performance graph compares the five-year percentage change in the Company’s cumulative shareholder return on common stock compared with the cumulative total return on composites of
(1) all NASDAQ Global Select Market stocks for United States companies (broad market index) and (2) all NASDAQ Global Select Market bank stocks (peer group index). Cumulative total return is computed by dividing the sum of the cumulative
amount of dividends for the measurement period and the difference between the Company’s share price at the end and the beginning of the measurement period by the share price at the beginning of the measurement period. The NASDAQ Global Select
Market for United States companies’ index comprises all domestic common shares traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the NASDAQ Small-Cap Market. The NASDAQ Global Select Market bank stocks index comprises all banks traded on the NASDAQ
Global Select Market and the NASDAQ Small-Cap Market.  This graph and other information furnished in the section titled
“Performance Graph” under this Part II, Item 5 of this Form 10-K shall not be deemed to be “soliciting” materials or to be “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, or
to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Total Return Performance Comparison
 (in percent)   


  




























 
  
    2006
 
  
      2007
 
  
      2008
 
  
      2009
 
  
      2010
 
  
      2011
 

 Wintrust Financial Corporation
  
 
    100.00
  
  
 
      69.66
  
  
 
      44.25
  
  
 
      66.10
  
  
 
      71.14
  
  
 
      61.15
  

 NASDAQ — Total US
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
108.47
  
  
 
66.35
  
  
 
95.38
  
  
 
113.19
  
  
 
113.81
  

 NASDAQ — Bank Index
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
79.26
  
  
 
57.79
  
  
 
48.42
  
  
 
57.29
  
  
 
51.19
  
  
  29 


Approximate Number of Equity Security Holders 
As of February 22, 2012 there were approximately 1,514 shareholders of record of the Company’s common stock. 
Dividends on Common Stock  The Company’s Board of Directors approved the first semiannual dividend on the Company’s common stock in January 2000 and has continued to approve a semi-annual dividend since that time. The
payment of dividends is subject to statutory restrictions and restrictions arising under the terms of our 8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”), the Company’s Trust
Preferred Securities offerings, the Company’s 7.5% tangible equity units and under certain financial covenants in the Company’s credit agreement. Under the terms of the Company’s revolving credit facility amended on October 28,
2011, the Company is prohibited from paying dividends on any equity interests, including its common stock and preferred stock, if such payments would cause the Company to be in default under its credit facility. 
Following is a summary of the cash dividends paid in 2011 and 2010:   










Record Date
  
Payable Date
  
  
    
 Dividend  
per Share  

 February 11, 2010
  
February 25, 2010
  

    
$0.09  

 August 12, 2010
  
August 26, 2010
  

    
$0.09  

 February 10, 2011
  
February 24, 2011
  

    
$0.09  

 August 11, 2011
  
August 25, 2011
  

    
$0.09  
 In January 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a semi-annual dividend of $0.09 per
share. The dividend was paid on February 23, 2012 to shareholders of record as of February 9, 2012.  Because the
Company’s consolidated net income consists largely of net income of the banks and certain wealth management subsidiaries, the Company’s ability to pay dividends generally depends upon its receipt of dividends from these entities. The
banks’ ability to pay dividends is regulated by banking statutes. See “Bank Regulation; Additional Regulation of Dividends” on page 12 of this Form 10-K. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the banks paid $27.8 million, $11.5 million and
$100.0 million, respectively, in dividends to the Company.  Reference is also made to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” contained in this Form 10-K for a description of the restrictions on the ability of certain subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Company in the form of dividends. 
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities  None.  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
No purchases of the Company’s common shares were made by or on behalf of the Company or any “affiliated purchaser” as
defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, during the year ended December 31, 2011. There is currently no authorization to repurchase shares of outstanding common stock. 
  30 




ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 


  
  
  
 

 Selected Financial Condition Data (at end of period):
  



 



 



 



 




 Total assets
  
$
15,893,808
  
 
$
13,980,156
  
 
$
12,215,620
  
 
$
10,658,326
  
 
$
9,368,859
  

 Total loans, excluding covered loans
  
 
10,521,377
  
 
 
9,599,886
  
 
 
8,411,771
  
 
 
7,621,069
  
 
 
6,801,602
  

 Total deposits
  
 
12,307,267
  
 
 
10,803,673
  
 
 
9,917,074
  
 
 
8,376,750
  
 
 
7,471,441
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
  
 
249,493
  
 
 
249,493
  
 
 
249,493
  
 
 
249,515
  
 
 
249,662
  

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
1,543,533
  
 
 
1,436,549
  
 
 
1,138,639
  
 
 
1,066,572
  
 
 
739,555
  








 Selected Statements of Income Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net interest income
  
$
461,377
  
 
$
415,836
  
 
$
311,876
  
 
$
244,567
  
 
$
261,550
  

 Net revenue (1)
  
 
651,075
  
 
 
607,996
  
 
 
629,523
  
 
 
344,245
  
 
 
341,493
  

 Pre-tax adjusted earnings (2)
  
 
225,451
  
 
 
199,033
  
 
 
124,696
  
 
 
97,008
  
 
 
100,791
  

 Net income
  
 
77,575
  
 
 
63,329
  
 
 
73,069
  
 
 
20,488
  
 
 
55,653
  

 Net income per common share – Basic
  
 
2.08
  
 
 
1.08
  
 
 
2.23
  
 
 
0.78
  
 
 
2.31
  

 Net income per common share – Diluted
  
 
1.67
  
 
 
1.02
  
 
 
2.18
  
 
 
0.76
  
 
 
2.24
  








 Selected Financial Ratios and Other Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Performance Ratios:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net interest margin (2)
  
 
3.42
% 
 
 
3.37
% 
 
 
3.01
% 
 
 
2.81
% 
 
 
3.11
% 

 Non-interest income to average assets
  
 
1.27
% 
 
 
1.42
% 
 
 
2.78
% 
 
 
1.02
% 
 
 
0.85
% 

 Non-interest expense to average assets
  
 
2.82
% 
 
 
2.82
% 
 
 
3.01
% 
 
 
2.63
% 
 
 
2.57
% 

 Net overhead ratio (3)
  
 
1.55
% 
 
 
1.40
% 
 
 
0.23
% 
 
 
1.60
% 
 
 
1.72
% 

 Efficiency ratio (2) (4)
  
 
64.58
% 
 
 
63.77
% 
 
 
54.44
% 
 
 
73.00
% 
 
 
71.05
% 

 Return on average assets
  
 
0.52
% 
 
 
0.47
% 
 
 
0.64
% 
 
 
0.21
% 
 
 
0.59
% 

 Return on average common equity
  
 
5.11
% 
 
 
3.01
% 
 
 
6.70
% 
 
 
2.44
% 
 
 
7.64
% 








 Average total assets
  
$
14,920,160
  
 
$
13,556,612
  
 
$
11,415,322
  
 
$
9,753,220
  
 
$
9,422,277
  

 Average total shareholders’ equity
  
 
1,484,720
  
 
 
1,352,135
  
 
 
1,081,792
  
 
 
779,437
  
 
 
727,972
  

 Average loans to average deposits ratio (excluding covered loans)
  
 
88.3
% 
 
 
91.1
% 
 
 
90.5
% 
 
 
94.3
% 
 
 
90.1
% 

 Average loans to average deposits ratio (including covered loans)
  
 
92.8
  
 
 
93.4
  
 
 
90.5
  
 
 
94.3
  
 
 
90.1
  








 Common Share Data at end of period:
  



 



 



 



 




 Market price per common share
  
$
28.05
  
 
$
33.03
  
 
$
30.79
  
 
$
20.57
  
 
$
33.13
  

 Book value per common share (2)
  
$
34.23
  
 
$
32.73
  
 
$
35.27
  
 
$
33.03
  
 
$
31.56
  

 Tangible common book value per share (2)
  
$
26.72
  
 
$
25.80
  
 
$
23.22
  
 
$
20.78
  
 
$
19.02
  

 Common shares outstanding
  
 
35,978,349
  
 
 
34,864,068
  
 
 
24,206,819
  
 
 
23,756,674
  
 
 
23,430,490
  








 Other Data at end of period: (7)
  



 



 



 



 




 Leverage Ratio
  
 
9.4
% 
 
 
10.1
% 
 
 
9.3
% 
 
 
10.6
% 
 
 
7.7
% 

 Tier 1 Capital to risk-weighted assets
  
 
11.8
% 
 
 
12.5
% 
 
 
11.0
% 
 
 
11.6
% 
 
 
8.7
% 

 Total capital to risk-weighted assets
  
 
13.0
% 
 
 
13.8
% 
 
 
12.4
% 
 
 
13.1
% 
 
 
10.2
% 

 Tangible Common Equity ratio (TCE) (2) (6)
  
 
7.5
% 
 
 
8.0
% 
 
 
4.7
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 
 
4.9
% 

 Allowance for credit losses (5)
  
$
123,612
  
 
$
118,037
  
 
$
101,831
  
 
$
71,353
  
 
$
50,882
  

 Non-performing loans
  
 
120,084
  
 
 
141,958
  
 
 
131,804
  
 
 
136,094
  
 
 
71,854
  

 Allowance for credit losses(5) to total loans, excluding covered loans
  
 
1.17
% 
 
 
1.23
% 
 
 
1.21
% 
 
 
0.94
% 
 
 
0.75
% 

 Non-performing loans to total loans, excluding covered loans
  
 
1.14 
% 
 
 
1.48
% 
 
 
1.57
% 
 
 
1.79
% 
 
 
1.06
% 








 Number of:
  



 



 



 



 




 Bank subsidiaries
  
 
15
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
15
  

 Non-bank subsidiaries
  
 
7
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
8
  

 Banking offices
  
 
99
  
 
 
86
  
 
 
78
  
 
 
79
  
 
 
77
  
  


(1)
 Net revenue includes net interest income and non-interest income 
 


(2)
 See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial
Measures/Ratios,” for a reconciliation of this performance measure/ratio to GAAP.   


(3)
 The net overhead ratio is calculated by netting total non-interest expense and total non-interest income, annualizing this amount, and dividing
by that period’s total average assets. A lower ratio indicates a higher degree of efficiency.   


(4)
 The efficiency ratio is calculated by dividing total non-interest expense by tax-equivalent net revenue (less securities gains or losses). A
lower ratio indicates more efficient revenue generation.   


(5)
 The allowance for credit losses includes both the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded lending-related commitments, but
excluding the allowance for covered loan losses.   


(6)
 Total shareholders’ equity minus preferred stock and total intangible assets divided by total assets minus total intangible assets
  


(7)
 Asset quality ratios exclude covered loans. 
  31 




ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Forward Looking Statements  This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Forward-looking information can be identified through the use of words such as “intend,”
“plan,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “contemplate,” “possible,” “point,” “will,” “may,” “should,”
“would” and “could.” Forward-looking statements and information are not historical facts, are premised on many factors and assumptions, and represent only management’s expectations, estimates and projections regarding future
events. Similarly, these statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, which may include, but are not limited to, those listed below and the Risk Factors discussed in
Item 1A on page 18 of this Form 10-K. The Company intends such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and is
including this statement for purposes of invoking these safe harbor provisions. Such forward-looking statements may be deemed to include, among other things, statements relating to the Company’s future financial performance, the performance of
its loan portfolio, the expected amount of future credit reserves and charge-offs, delinquency trends, growth plans, regulatory developments, securities that the Company may offer from time to time, and management’s long-term performance goals,
as well as statements relating to the anticipated effects on financial condition and results of operations from expected developments or events, the Company’s business and growth strategies, including future acquisitions of banks, specialty
finance or wealth management businesses, internal growth and plans to form additional de novo banks or branch offices. Actual results could differ materially from those addressed in the forward-looking statements as a result of numerous
factors, including the following:   


 
•
 
 negative economic conditions that adversely affect the economy, housing prices, the job market and other factors that may affect the
Company’s liquidity and the performance of its loan portfolios, particularly in the markets in which it operates;   


 
•
 
 the extent of defaults and losses on the Company’s loan portfolio, which may require further increases in its allowance for credit
losses;   


 
•
 
 estimates of fair value of certain of the Company’s assets and liabilities, which could change in value significantly from period to
period;   


 
•
 
 the financial success and economic viability of the borrowers of our commercial loans; 
 


 
•
 
 the extent of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declines in real estate values, which may require further increases in the Company’s
allowance for loan and lease losses;   


 
•
 
 changes in the level and volatility of interest rates, the capital markets and other market indices that may affect, among other things, the
Company’s liquidity and the value of its assets and liabilities;   


 
•
 
 competitive pressures in the financial services business which may affect the pricing of the Company’s loan and deposit products as well
as its services (including wealth management services);   


 
•
 
 failure to identify and complete favorable acquisitions in the future or unexpected difficulties or developments related to the integration
of recent or future acquisitions;   


 
•
 
 unexpected difficulties and losses related to FDIC-assisted acquisitions, including those resulting from our loss-sharing arrangements with
the FDIC;   


 
•
 
 any negative perception of the Company’s reputation or financial strength; 
 


 
•
 
 ability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed; 
 


 
•
 
 disruption in capital markets, which may lower fair values for the Company’s investment portfolio; 
 


 
•
 
 ability to use technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands and create efficiencies in operations;
  


 
•
 
 adverse effects on our information technology systems resulting from failures, human error or tampering; 
 


 
•
 
 accuracy and completeness of information the Company receives about customers and counterparties to make credit decisions;
  


 
•
 
 the ability of the Company to attract and retain senior management experienced in the banking and financial services industries;
  


 
•
 
 environmental liability risk associated with lending activities; 
 


 
•
 
 losses incurred in connection with repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages; 
 


 
•
 
 the loss of customers as a result of technological changes allowing consumers to complete their financial transactions without the use of a
bank;   


 
•
 
 the soundness of other financial institutions;   


 
•
 
 the possibility that certain European Union member states will default on their debt obligations, which may affect the Company’s liquidity,
financial conditions and results of operations; 
 




 
•
 
 unexpected difficulties or unanticipated developments related to the Company’s strategy of de novo bank formations and openings,
which typically require over 13 months of operations before becoming profitable due to the impact of organizational and overhead expenses, startup phase of generating deposits and the time lag typically involved in redeploying deposits into
attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets;   


 
•
 
 examinations and challenges by tax authorities;   


 
•
 
 changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations and the impact on the Company’s financial statements;
  


 
•
 
 the ability of the Company to receive dividends from its subsidiaries; 
 


 
•
 
 a decrease in the Company’s regulatory capital ratios, including as a result of further declines in the value of its loan portfolios, or
otherwise;   


 
•
 
 legislative or regulatory changes, particularly changes in regulation of financial services companies and/or the products and services offered by
financial services companies, including those resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act;   


 
•
 
 restrictions upon our ability to market our products to consumers and limitations on our ability to profitably operate our mortgage business
resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act;   


 
•
 
 increased costs of compliance, heightened regulatory capital requirements and other risks associated with changes in regulation and the current
regulatory environment, including the Dodd-Frank Act;   


 
•
 
 changes in capital requirements resulting from Basel II and III initiatives; 
 


 
•
 
 increases in the Company’s FDIC insurance premiums, or the collection of special assessments by the FDIC; 
 


 
•
 
 delinquencies or fraud with respect to the Company’s premium finance business; 
 


 
•
 
 credit downgrades among commercial and life insurance providers that could negatively affect the value of collateral securing the Company’s
premium finance loans;   


 
•
 
 the Company’s ability to comply with covenants under its securitization facility and credit facility; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in the stock market, which may have an adverse impact on the Company’s wealth management business and brokerage operation; and
  


 
•
 
 significant litigation involving the Company.  Therefore, there can be no assurances that future actual results will correspond to these forward-looking statements. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement
made by or on behalf of Wintrust. Any such statement speaks only as of the date the statement was made or as of such date that may be referenced within the statement. The Company undertakes no obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking
statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K. Persons are advised, however, to consult further disclosures management makes on related subjects in its reports filed with the SEC and in its press releases.

  33 


MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 The following discussion highlights the significant factors affecting the operations and financial condition of Wintrust
for the three years ended December 31, 2011. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto, and Selected Financial Highlights appearing elsewhere within
this Form 10-K.  OPERATING SUMMARY  Wintrust’s key measures of profitability and balance sheet changes are shown in the following table:   
























 
  
Years EndedDecember
31,
 
  
 % or Basis Point (bp)change
 
  
 % or Basis Point (bp)change
 

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2010 to 2011
 
  
2009 to 2010
 

 Net income
  
$
77,575    
  
  
$
63,329    
  
  
$
73,069  
  
  
 
22%
  
  
 
(13)%
  

 Net income per common share — Diluted
  
 
1.67    
  
  
 
1.02    
  
  
 
2.18    
  
  
 
64    
  
  
 
(53)  
  

 Pre-tax adjusted earnings (1) 
  
 
225,451    
  
  
 
199,033    
  
  
 
124,696    
  
  
 
13    
  
  
 
60    
  

 Net revenue (2)
  
 
651,075    
  
  
 
607,996    
  
  
 
629,523    
  
  
 
7    
  
  
 
(3)  
  

 Net interest income
  
 
461,377    
  
  
 
415,836    
  
  
 
311,876      
  
  
 
11    
  
  
 
33    
  

 Net interest margin (1)
  
 
3.42%
  
  
 
3.37%
  
  
 
3.01%
  
  
 
5bp    
  
  
 
36bp    
  

 Net overhead ratio (3)
  
 
1.55    
  
  
 
1.40    
  
  
 
0.23    
  
  
 
15    
  
  
 
117    
  

 Efficiency ratio (1) (4)
  
 
64.58    
  
  
 
63.77    
  
  
 
54.44    
  
  
 
81    
  
  
 
933    
  

 Return on average assets
  
 
0.52    
  
  
 
0.47    
  
  
 
0.64    
  
  
 
5    
  
  
 
(17)  
  

 Return on average common equity
  
 
5.11    
  
  
 
3.01    
  
  
 
6.70    
  
  
 
210    
  
  
 
(369)  
  








 At end of period
  



  



  



  



  




 Total assets
  
$
15,893,808    
  
  
$
13,980,156    
  
  
$
12,215,620    
  
  
 
14 %
  
  
 
14%
  

 Total loans, excluding loans held-for-sale, excluding covered loans
  
 
10,521,377    
  
  
 
9,599,886
  
  
 
8,411,771    
  
  
 
10    
  
  
 
14    
  

 Total loans, including loans held-for-sale, excluding covered loans
  
 
10,841,901    
  
  
 
9,971,333    
  
  
 
8,687,486    
  
  
 
9    
  
  
 
15    
  

 Total deposits
  
 
12,307,267    
  
  
 
10,803,673    
  
  
 
9,917,074    
  
  
 
14    
  
  
 
9    
  

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
1,543,533    
  
  
 
1,436,549    
  
  
 
1,138,639    
  
  
 
7    
  
  
 
26    
  

 Tangible common equity ratio (TCE) (2)
  
 
7.5 %
  
  
 
8.0%
  
  
 
4.7 %
  
  
 
(50)bp    
  
  
 
330 bp    
  

 Book value per common share (1)
  
 
34.23    
  
  
 
32.73    
  
  
 
35.27    
  
  
 
5 %
  
  
 
(7)%
  

 Tangible common book value per common share (1)
  
 
26.72    
  
  
 
25.80    
  
  
 
23.22    
  
  
 
4    
  
  
 
11    
  

 Market price per common share
  
 
28.05    
  
  
 
33.03    
  
  
 
30.79    
  
  
 
(15)  
  
  
 
7    
  
    


(1)
 See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures/Ratios” for additional information on this performance measure/ratio
  


(2)
 Net revenue is net interest income plus non-interest income 
 


(3)
 The net overhead ratio is calculated by netting total non-interest expense and total non-interest income, annualizing this amount,
and dividing by that period’s total average assets. A lower ratio indicates a higher degree of efficiency.   


(4)
 The efficiency ratio is calculated by dividing total non-interest expense by tax-equivalent net revenues (less securities gains or
losses). A lower ratio indicates more efficient revenue generation.  Please refer to the Consolidated
Results of Operations section later in this discussion for an analysis of the Company’s operations for the past three years.  NON-GAAP
FINANCIAL MEASURES/RATIOS  The accounting and reporting policies of Wintrust conform to generally accepted accounting
principles (“GAAP”) in the United States and prevailing practices in the banking industry. However, certain non-GAAP performance measures and ratios are used by management to evaluate and measure the Company’s performance. These
include taxable-equivalent net interest income (including its individual components), net interest margin (including its individual components), the efficiency ratio, tangible common equity ratio, tangible common book value per share and pre-tax
adjusted earnings. Management believes that these measures and ratios provide users of the Company’s financial information a more meaningful view of the performance of the interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and of the
Company’s operating efficiency. Other financial holding companies may define or calculate these measures and ratios differently.  Management reviews yields on certain asset categories and the net interest margin of the Company and its banking subsidiaries on a fully taxable-equivalent (“FTE”) basis. In this non-GAAP
presentation, net interest income is adjusted to reflect tax-exempt interest income on an equivalent before-tax basis. This measure ensures comparability of net interest income arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. Net interest income on
a FTE basis is also used in the calculation of the Company’s efficiency ratio. The efficiency ratio, which is calculated by dividing non-interest expense by total taxable-equivalent net revenue (less securities gains or losses), measures how
much it costs to produce one dollar of revenue. Securities gains or losses are excluded from this calculation to better match revenue from daily operations to operational expenses. Management considers the tangible common equity ratio and tangible
book value per common share as useful measurements of the Company’s equity. Pre-tax adjusted earnings is a significant metric in assessing the Company’s operating performance. Pre-tax adjusted earnings is adjusted to exclude the provision
for credit losses and certain significant items. 
  34 


The following table presents a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP performance measures and
ratios used by the Company to evaluate and measure the Company’s performance to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for the last 5 years.   
























 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 

(Dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 


 
  
  
 

 Calculation of Net Interest Margin and Efficiency Ratio
 



 



 



 



 




 (A) Interest Income (GAAP)
 
$
 605,793
  
 
$
 593,107
  
 
$
 527,614
  
 
$
 514,723
  
 
$
 611,557    
  

 Taxable-equivalent adjustment:
 



 



 



 



 




 -Loans
 
 
458
  
 
 
334
  
 
 
462
  
 
 
645
  
 
 
826    
  

 -Liquidity management assets
 
 
1,224
  
 
 
1,377
  
 
 
1,720
  
 
 
1,795
  
 
 
2,388    
  

 -Other earning assets
 
 
12
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
13    
  


 
  
  
 

 Interest Income — FTE
 
$
607,487
  
 
$
594,835
  
 
$
529,834
  
 
$
517,210
  
 
$
614,784    
  

 (B) Interest Expense (GAAP)
 
 
144,416
  
 
 
177,271
  
 
 
215,738
  
 
 
270,156
  
 
 
350,007    
  


 
  
  
 

 Net interest income — FTE
 
$
463,071
  
 
$
417,564
  
 
$
314,096
  
 
$
247,054
  
 
$
264,777    
  


 
  
  
 








 (C) Net Interest Income (GAAP) (A minus B)
 
$
461,377
  
 
$
415,836
  
 
$
311,876
  
 
$
244,567
  
 
$
261,550    
  


 
  
  
 








 (D) Net interest margin (GAAP)
 
 
3.41
% 
 
 
3.35
% 
 
 
2.99
% 
 
 
2.78
% 
 
 
3.07%
  

 Net interest margin — FTE
 
 
3.42
% 
 
 
3.37
% 
 
 
3.01
% 
 
 
2.81
% 
 
 
3.11%
  

 (E) Efficiency ratio (GAAP)
 
 
64.75
% 
 
 
63.95
% 
 
 
54.64
% 
 
 
73.52
% 
 
 
71.74%
  

 Efficiency ratio — FTE
 
 
64.58
% 
 
 
63.77
% 
 
 
54.44
% 
 
 
73.00
% 
 
 
71.05%
  

 Calculation of Tangible Common Equity ratio (at period end)
 



 



 



 



 




 Total shareholders' equity
 
$
1,543,533
  
 
$
1,436,549
  
 
$
1,138,639
  
 
$
1,066,572
  
 
$
739,555    
  

 Less: Preferred stock
 
 
(49,768
) 
 
 
(49,640
) 
 
 
(284,824
) 
 
 
(281,873
) 
 
 
—    
  

 Less: Intangible assets
 
 
(327,538
) 
 
 
(293,765
) 
 
 
(291,649
) 
 
 
(290,918
) 
 
 
(293,941)  
  


 
  
  
 

 (F) Total tangible common shareholders’ equity
 
$
1,166,227
  
 
$
1,093,144
  
 
$
562,166
  
 
$
493,781
  
 
$
445,614    
  


 
  
  
 








 Total assets
 
$
15,893,808
  
 
$
13,980,156
  
 
$
12,215,620
  
 
$
10,658,326
  
 
$
9,368,859    
  

 Less: Intangible assets
 
 
(327,538
) 
 
 
(293,765
) 
 
 
(291,649
) 
 
 
(290,918
) 
 
 
(293,941)  
  


 
  
  
 

 (G) Total tangible assets
 
$
15,566,270
  
 
$
13,686,391
  
 
$
11,923,971
  
 
$
10,367,408
  
 
$
9,074,918    
  


 
  
  
 

 Tangible common equity ratio (F/G)
 
 
7.5
% 
 
 
8.0
% 
 
 
4.7
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 
 
4.9%
  








 Calculation of Pre-Tax Adjusted Earnings
 



 



 



 



 




 Income before taxes
 
$
128,033
  
 
$
100,807
  
 
$
117,504
  
 
$
30,641
  
 
$
83,824    
  

 Add: Provision for credit losses
 
 
102,638
  
 
 
124,664
  
 
 
167,932
  
 
 
57,441
  
 
 
14,879    
  

 Add: OREO expenses, net
 
 
26,340
  
 
 
19,331
  
 
 
18,963
  
 
 
2,023
  
 
 
111    
  

 Add: Recourse obligation on loans previously sold
 
 
439
  
 
 
10,970
  
 
 
937
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,210    
  

 Add: Covered loan expense
 
 
2,831
  
 
 
689
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—    
  

 Add: Mortgage servicing rights fair value adjustments
 
 
4,673
  
 
 
2,955
  
 
 
2,031
  
 
 
2,364
  
 
 
1,029    
  

 Less: Loss (gain) from investment partnerships
 
 
600
  
 
 
(1,155
) 
 
 
(138
) 
 
 
234
  
 
 
—    
  

 Less: Gain on bargain purchases
 
 
(37,974
) 
 
 
(44,231
) 
 
 
(156,013
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—    
  

 Less: Trading (gains) losses
 
 
(337
) 
 
 
(5,165
) 
 
 
(26,788
) 
 
 
134
  
 
 
(265)  
  

 Less: (Gains) losses on available-for-sale securities, net
 
 
(1,792
) 
 
 
(9,832
) 
 
 
268
  
 
 
4,171
  
 
 
(2,997)  
  


 
  
  
 

 Pre-tax adjusted earnings
 
$
225,451
  
 
$
199,033
  
 
$
124,696
  
 
$
97,008
  
 
$
100,791    
  


 
  
  
 








 Calculation of book value per share
 



 



 



 



 




 Total shareholders’ equity
 
$
1,543,533
  
 
$
1,436,549
  
 
$
1,138,639
  
 
$
1,066,572
  
 
$
739,555    
  

 Less: Preferred stock
 
 
(49,768
) 
 
 
(49,640
) 
 
 
(284,824
) 
 
 
(281,873
) 
 
 
—    
  


 
  
  
 

 (H) Total common equity
 
$
1,493,765
  
 
$
1,386,909
  
 
$
853,815
  
 
$
784,699
  
 
$
739,555    
  


 
  
  
 








 Actual common shares outstanding
 
 
35,978
  
 
 
34,864
  
 
 
24,207
  
 
 
23,757
  
 
 
23,430    
  

 Add: TEU conversion shares
 
 
7,666
  
 
 
7,512
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—    
  


 
  
  
 

 (I) Common shares used for book value calculation
 
 
43,644
  
 
 
42,376
  
 
 
24,207
  
 
 
23,757
  
 
 
23,430    
  


 
  
  
 








 Book value per share (H/I)
 
$
34.23
  
 
$
32.73
  
 
$
35.27
  
 
$
33.03
  
 
$
31.56    
  

 Tangible common book value per share (F/I)
 
$
26.72
  
 
$
25.80
  
 
$
23.22
  
 
$
20.78
  
 
$
19.02    
  

  35 


OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY  Wintrust is a financial holding company that provides traditional community banking services, primarily in the Chicago metropolitan area and southeastern Wisconsin, and operates other financing businesses
on a national basis through several non-bank subsidiaries. Additionally, Wintrust offers a full array of wealth management services primarily to customers in our Market Area.  2011 Highlights  The Company recorded net income of $77.6 million for the
year of 2011 compared to $63.3 million and $73.1 million for the years of 2010 and 2009, respectively. The results for 2011 demonstrate continued operating strengths as credit related costs remain at levels similar to previous years, loans
outstanding increased, demand deposits related to this loan growth increased, and the beneficial shift in our deposit mix away from single-product CD customers continued. The Company also continues to take advantage of the opportunities that have
resulted from distressed credit markets – specifically, a dislocation of assets, banks and people in the overall market. For more information, see “Overview and Strategy—Acquisition Transactions.” 
The Company increased its loan portfolio, excluding covered loans, from $9.6 billion at December 31, 2010 to $10.5 billion at
December 31, 2011. This increase was primarily a result of the Company’s commercial banking initiative, loans obtained in the acquisition of Elgin State Bank, as well as growth in the premium finance receivables – life insurance
portfolio. The Company continues to make new loans, including in the commercial and commercial real estate sector, where opportunities that meet our underwriting standards exist. The withdrawal of many banks in our area from active lending combined
with our strong local relationships has presented us with opportunities to make new loans to well qualified borrowers who have been displaced from other institutions. For more information regarding changes in the Company’s loan portfolio, see
“Analysis of Financial Condition – Interest Earning Assets” and Note 4 “Loans” of the Financial Statements presented under Item 1 of this report.  Management considers the maintenance of adequate liquidity to be important to the management of risk. Accordingly, during 2011, the Company continued its practice of maintaining appropriate funding
capacity to provide the Company with adequate liquidity for its ongoing operations. In this regard, the Company benefited from its strong deposit base, a liquid short-term investment portfolio and its access to funding from a variety of external
funding sources. At December 31, 2011, the Company had overnight liquid funds and interest-bearing deposits with banks of $919.0 million compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2010. 
The Company experienced a 32% decline in mortgage origination volumes in 2011 compared to the previous year. This decline in originations
resulted from an industry-wide fall-off in residential real-estate loan originations as well as our exit from our wholesale mortgage origination channel in late 2010. Additionally, despite a continued low rate environment in 2011, many borrowers
refinanced mortgages in 2010. Interest rates did not decrease significantly enough for borrowers to pursue another refinancing in 2011.  The Company recorded net interest income of $461.4 million in 2011 compared to $415.8 million and $311.9 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The higher level of net interest income recorded in 2011
compared to 2010 resulted from an increase in average earning assets of $1.1 billion. This average earning asset growth was primarily a result of the $671.9 million increase in average loans, $288.3 million of average covered loan growth from the
FDIC-assisted bank acquisitions and a $169.7 million increase in liquidity management and other earning assets. Growth in the commercial and industrial portfolio of $330.8 million, in the life insurance premium finance portfolio of $266.8 million
and in the commercial insurance premium finance loan portfolio of $145.4 accounted for the majority of the total average loan growth over the past 12 months. The average earning asset growth of $1.1 billion over the past 12 months was primarily
funded by a $602.6 million increase in the average balances of interest-bearing deposits and an increase in the average balance of net free funds of $354.7 million.  Non-interest income totaled $189.7 million in 2011, decreasing $2.5 million, or 1%, compared to 2010. The change was primarily attributable to lower bargain purchase gains recorded during the current
period relating to the FDIC-assisted transactions than during the comparable period as well as lower net gains on available-for-sale securities in 2011, partially offset by higher wealth management revenues and fees from covered call options in the
current period. Non-interest income totaled $192.2 million in 2010, decreasing $125.5 million, or 40%, compared to 2009. The decrease in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily attributable to the $156.0 million of bargain purchase gains recorded during
2009 related to the life insurance premium finance loan acquisition in 2009.  Non-interest expense totaled $420.4 million in
2011, increasing $37.9 million, or 10%, compared to 2010. The increase compared to 2010 was primarily attributable to a $22.0 million increase in salaries and employee benefits. The increase in salaries and employee benefits was, in turn,
attributable to an $18.2 million increase in salaries resulting from additional employees from acquisitions and larger staffing as the company grows and a $6.2 million increase in employee benefits (primarily health plan and payroll taxes related),
partially offset by a $2.4 million decrease in bonus expense and commissions attributable to variable pay based revenue. Non-interest expense totaled $382.5 million in 2010, increasing $38.4 million, or 11%, compared to 2009. The increase compared
to 2009 was primarily attributable to a $28.9 million increase in salaries and employee benefits. The increase in salaries and employee benefits was, in turn, attributable to a $12.6 million increase in bonus expense and commissions as variable pay
based revenue increased (primarily wealth management revenue and mortgage banking revenue), an $11.4 million increase in salaries resulting from additional employees from the three FDIC-assisted transactions in 2010 and larger staffing as the
company grows, and a $4.9 million increase in employee benefits (primarily health plan and payroll taxes related). 
  36 


The Current Economic Environment 
The Company’s results during 2011 continued to be impacted by the existing stressed economic environment and depressed real estate
valuations that affected both the U.S. economy, generally, and the Company’s local markets, specifically. In response to these conditions, Management continued to carefully monitor the impact on the Company of the financial markets, the
depressed values of real property and other assets, loan performance, default rates and other financial and macro-economic indicators in order to navigate the challenging economic environment. In particular: 
 


 
•
 
 The Company’s 2011 provision for credit losses, excluding covered loans, totaled $97.9 million, a decrease of $26.8 million when
compared to 2010 and a decrease of $70.0 million when compared to 2009. Net charge-offs, excluding covered loans, decreased to $103.3 million in 2011 (of which $92.0 million related to commercial and commercial real estate loans), compared to $109.7
million in 2010 (of which $78.4 million related to commercial and commercial real estate loans) and $137.4 million in 2009 (of which $122.9 million related to commercial and commercial real estate loans). 
 


 
•
 
 The Company decreased its allowance for loan losses, excluding covered loans to $110.4 million at December 31, 2011, reflecting a
decrease of $3.5 million, or 3%, when compared to 2010. At December 31, 2011, approximately $56.4 million, or 51%, of the allowance for loan losses, excluding covered loans, was associated with commercial real estate loands and another $31.2
million, or 28%, was associated with commercial loans.   


 
•
 
 Wintrust has significant exposure to commercial real estate. At December 31, 2011, $3.5 billion, or 31%, of our loan portfolio was
commercial real estate, with more than 92% located in our Market Area. The commercial real estate loan portfolio was comprised of $414.2 million related to land, residential and commercial construction, $554.4 million related to office buildings
loans, $536.7 million related to retail loans, $555.8 million related to industrial use loans, $314.6 million related to multi-family loans and $1.1 billion related to mixed use and other use types. In analyzing the commercial real estate market,
the Company does not rely upon the assessment of broad market statistical data, in large part because the Company’s market area is diverse and covers many communities, each of which is impacted differently by economic forces affecting the
Company’s general market area. As such, the extent of the decline in real estate valuations can vary meaningfully among the different types of commercial and other real estate loans made by the Company. The Company uses its multi-chartered
structure and local management knowledge to analyze and manage the local market conditions at each of its banks. Despite these efforts, as of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $66.5 million of non-performing commercial real
estate loans representing approximately 2% of the total commercial real estate loan portfolio. $35.7 million, or 54%, of the total non-performing commercial real estate loan portfolio related to the land, residential and commercial construction
sector which remains under stress due to the significant oversupply of new homes in certain portions of our market area.   


 
•
 
 Total non-performing loans (loans on non-accrual status and loans more than 90 days past due and still accruing interest), excluding covered
loans, were $120.1 million (of which $66.5 million, or 55%, was related to commercial real estate) at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $21.9 million compared to December 31, 2010. Non-performing loans decreased as a result of the
Company’s efforts to resolve problem loans through liquidation.   


 
•
 
 The Company’s other real estate owned, excluding covered other real estate owned, increased by $15.3 million, to $86.5 million during
2011, from $71.2 million at December 31, 2010. The increase in other real estate owned included $7.4 million of properties acquired in the acquisition of Elgin State Bank. The $86.5 million of other real estate owned as of December 31,
2011 was comprised of $19.9 million of residential real estate development property, $59.3 million of commercial real estate property and $7.3 million of residential real estate property. 
During 2011, Management continued its efforts to aggressively resolve problem loans through liquidation, rather than retention, of loans
or real estate acquired as collateral through the foreclosure process. This strategic effort was implemented in 2009. Management believes that some financial institutions have taken a longer term view of problem loan situations, hoping to realize
higher values on acquired collateral through extended marketing efforts or an improvement in market conditions. Management believed that the distressed macro-economic conditions would continue to exist in 2011 and that the banking industry’s
continued elevated levels in non-performing loans would lead to many properties being sold by financial institutions, thus saturating the market and possibly driving fair values of non-performing loans and foreclosed collateral further downwards.
Accordingly, since 2009 the Company has attempted to liquidate as many non-performing loans and assets as possible. Management believes these actions will serve the Company well in the future by providing some protection for the Company from further
valuation deterioration and permitting Management to spend less time on resolution of problem loans and more time on growing the Company’s core business and the evaluation of other opportunities presented by this volatile economic environment.
The Company continues to take advantage of the opportunities that many times result from distressed credit markets — specifically, a dislocation of assets, banks and people in the overall market. 
The level of loans past due 30 days or more and still accruing interest, excluding covered loans, totaled $147.9 million as of
December 31, 2011, increasing $1.0 million compared to the balance of $146.9 million as of December 31, 2010. Management is very cognizant of the volatility in and the fragile nature of the national and local economic conditions and that
some borrowers can 
  37 



experience severe difficulties and default suddenly even if they have never previously been delinquent in loan payments. Accordingly, Management believes that the current economic conditions will
continue to apply stress to the quality of the Company’s loan portfolio. Accordingly, Management plans to continue to direct significant attention toward the prompt identification, management and resolution of problem loans. 
Additionally in 2011, the Company restructured certain loans by providing economic concessions to borrowers to better align the terms of
their loans with their current ability to pay. At December 31, 2011, approximately $130.5 million in loans had terms modified, with $119.9 million of these modified loans in accruing status. These actions helped financially stressed borrowers
maintain their homes or businesses and kept these loans in an accruing status for the Company. The Company considers restructuring loans when it appears that both the borrower and the Company can benefit and preserve a solid and sustainable
relationship. See Note 5 – Allowance for Loan Losses, Allowance for Losses on Lending-Related Commitments and Impaired Loans for additional discussion of restructured loans. 
An acceleration or continuation of real estate valuation and macroeconomic deterioration could result in higher default levels, a
significant increase in foreclosure activity, and a material decline in the value of the Company’s assets.  Mortgage loan
originations were lower in 2011 compared to 2010 and 2009, resulting in a decrease in gains on sales of loans in the current year. The Company enters into residential mortgage loan sale agreements with investors in the normal course of business. The
Company’s practice is generally not to retain long-term fixed rate mortgages on its balance sheet in order to mitigate interest rate risk, and consequently sells most of such mortgages into the secondary market. These agreements provide
recourse to investors through certain representations concerning credit information, loan documentation, collateral and insurability. Investors request the Company to indemnify them against losses on certain loans or to repurchase loans which the
investors believe do not comply with applicable representations. An increase in requests for loss indemnification can negatively impact mortgage banking revenue as additional recourse expense. The Company recognized $439,000 of expense related to
loss indemnification claims in 2011 for loans previously sold, a decrease of $10.5 million compared to 2010 primarily from lower recourse obligations adjustments as the number of indemnification requests from investors declined as well as lower loss
estimates on future indemnification requests. The Company has established a $2.5 million estimated liability, as of December 31, 2011, on loans expected to be repurchased from loans sold to investors, which is based on trends in repurchase and
indemnification requests, actual loss experience, known and inherent risks in the loan and current economic conditions.  Community
Banking  As of December 31, 2011, our community banking franchise consisted of 15 community banks with 99
locations. Through these banks, we provide banking and financial services primarily to individuals, small to mid-sized businesses, local governmental units and institutional clients residing primarily in the banks’ local service areas. These
services include traditional deposit products such as demand, NOW, money market, savings and time deposit accounts, as well as a number of unique deposit products targeted to specific market segments. The banks also offer home equity, home mortgage,
consumer, real estate and commercial loans, safe deposit facilities, ATMs, internet banking and other innovative and traditional services specially tailored to meet the needs of customers in their market areas. Profitability of our community banking
franchise is primarily driven by our net interest income and margin, our funding mix and related costs, the level of non-performing loans and other real estate owned, the amount of mortgage banking revenue and our history of establishing de novo
banks.  Net interest income and margin. The primary source of our revenue is net interest income. Net interest
income is the difference between interest income and fees on earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on liabilities to fund those assets, including deposits and other borrowings. Net interest income can change
significantly from period to period based on general levels of interest rates, customer prepayment patterns, the mix of interest-earning assets and the mix of interest-bearing and non-interest bearing deposits and borrowings. 
Funding mix and related costs. Our most significant source of funding is core deposits, which are comprised of non-interest
bearing deposits, non-brokered interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and domestic time deposits. Our branch network is our principal source of core deposits, which generally carry lower interest rates than wholesale funds of
comparable maturities. Our profitability has been bolstered in recent quarters as fixed term certificates of deposit have been renewing at lower rates given the historically low interest rate levels in the marketplace recently and growth in
non-interest bearing deposits as a result of the Company’s commercial banking initiative.  Level of non-performing
loans and other real estate owned. The level of non-performing loans and other real estate owned can significantly impact our profitability as these loans and other real estate owned do not accrue any income, can be subject to charge-offs and
write-downs due to deteriorating market conditions and generally result in additional legal and collections expenses. Given the current economic conditions, these costs, specifically problem loan expenses, have been at elevated levels in recent
years.  Mortgage banking revenue. Our community banking franchise is also influenced by the level of fees generated by
the origination of residential mortgages and the sale of such mortgages into the secondary market. 2011 was characterized by the continuation of an 
  38 



industry wide decline in real-estate loan originations which resulted in a decrease in the Company’s real-estate loan originations in 
2011 as compared to 2010. The decrease in mortgage banking revenue in the 2011 as compared to 2010 resulted primarily from a decrease in
gain on sales of loans and other fees, which was driven by lower origination volumes in the current year. Partially offsetting the decrease in gains on sales of loans and other fees was a $10.5 million positive impact from lower recourse obligation
adjustments as the number of indemnification requests from investors declined as well as lower loss estimates on future indemnification requests.  Establishment of de novo operations. Our historical financial performance has been affected by costs associated with growing market share in deposits and loans, establishing and acquiring banks,
opening new branch facilities and building an experienced management team. Our financial performance generally reflects the improved profitability of our banking subsidiaries as they mature, offset by the costs of establishing and acquiring banks
and opening new branch facilities. From our experience, it generally takes over 13 months for new banks to achieve operational profitability depending on the number and timing of branch facilities added. 
In determining the timing of the formation of de novo banks, the opening of additional branches of existing banks, and the
acquisition of additional banks, we consider many factors, particularly our perceived ability to obtain an adequate return on our invested capital driven largely by the then existing cost of funds and lending margins, the general economic climate
and the level of competition in a given market. We began to slow the rate of growth of new locations in 2007 due to tightening net interest margins on new business which, in the opinion of management, did not provide enough net interest spread to be
able to garner a sufficient return on our invested capital. From the second quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of 2010, we did not establish a new banking location either through a de novo opening or through an acquisition, due to the
financial system crisis and recessionary economy and our decision to utilize our capital to support our existing franchise rather than deploy our capital for expansion through new locations which tend to operate at a loss in the early months of
operation. Thus, while expansion activity from 2007 through 2009 had been at a level below earlier periods in our history, we have resumed the formation of additional branches and acquisitions of additional banks. See discussion of 2010 and 2011
acquisition activity in the “Overview and Strategy – Acquisition Transactions” section below.  In addition to
the factors considered above, before we engage in expansion through de novo branches or banks we must first make a determination that the expansion fulfills our objective of enhancing shareholder value through potential future earnings growth
and enhancement of the overall franchise value of the Company. Generally, we believe that, in normal market conditions, expansion through de novo growth is a better long-term investment than acquiring banks because the cost to bring a de novo
location to profitability is generally substantially less than the premium paid for the acquisition of a healthy bank. Each opportunity to expand is unique from a cost and benefit perspective. FDIC-assisted acquisitions offer a unique opportunity
for the Company to expand into new and existing markets in a non-traditional manner. Potential FDIC-assisted acquisitions are reviewed in a similar manner as a de novo branch or bank opportunities, however, FDIC-assisted acquisitions have the
ability to immediately enhance shareholder value. Factors including the valuation of our stock, other economic market conditions, the size and scope of the particular expansion opportunity and competitive landscape all influence the decision to
expand via de novo growth or through acquisition.  Specialty Finance 
Through our specialty finance segment, we offer financing of insurance premiums for businesses and individuals; accounts receivable
financing, value-added, out-sourced administrative services; and other specialty finance businesses. Our wholly owned subsidiary, FIFC, engages in the premium finance receivables business, our most significant specialized lending niche, including
commercial insurance premium finance and life insurance premium finance. We conduct the remainder of our specialty finance businesses through indirect subsidiaries, which are subsidiaries of our banks. 
Financing of Commercial Insurance Premiums  FIFC originated approximately $3.5 billion in commercial insurance premium finance receivables in 2011. FIFC makes loans to businesses to finance the insurance premiums they pay on their commercial
insurance policies. The loans are originated by FIFC working through independent medium and large insurance agents and brokers located throughout the United States. The insurance premiums financed are primarily for commercial customers’
purchases of liability, property and casualty and other commercial insurance. This lending involves relatively rapid turnover of the loan portfolio and high volume of loan originations. Because of the indirect nature of this lending and because the
borrowers are located nationwide, this segment is more susceptible to third party fraud than relationship lending. In the second quarter of 2010, fraud perpetrated against a number of premium finance companies in the industry, including the property
and casualty division of our premium financing subsidiary, increased both the Company’s net charge-offs and provision for credit losses by $15.7 million. Actions have been taken by the Company to decrease the likelihood of this type of loss
from recurring in this line of business for the Company by the enhancement of various control procedures to mitigate the risks associated with this lending. The Company has conducted a thorough review of the premium finance — commercial
portfolio and found no signs of similar situations. In the second quarter of 2011, the Company recovered $5.0 million from insurance coverage of the $15.7 million fraud loss. The Company continues to pursue additional recoveries, but does not
anticipate any significant additional recoveries.  The majority of these loans are purchased by the banks in order to more
fully utilize their lending capacity as these loans generally  provide the banks with higher yields than alternative
investments. Historically, FIFC originations that were not purchased by the banks 
  39 



were sold to unrelated third parties with servicing retained. However, during the third quarter of 2009, FIFC sold $695 million in commercial premium finance receivables to our indirect
subsidiary, FIFC Premium Funding I, LLC, which in turn sold $600 million in aggregate principal amount of notes backed by such premium finance receivables in a securitization transaction sponsored by FIFC. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, this
securitization transaction has been accounted for as a secured borrowing and the securitization entity is treated as a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. Accordingly, beginning on January 1, 2010, all of the assets and liabilities of the
securitization entity have been included directly on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Condition.  The primary
driver of profitability related to the financing of commercial insurance premiums is the net interest spread that FIFC can produce between the yields on the loans generated and the cost of funds allocated to the business unit. The commercial
insurance premium finance business is a competitive industry and yields on loans are influenced by the market rates offered by our competitors. We fund these loans either through the securitization facility described above or through our deposits,
the cost of which is influenced by competitors in the retail banking markets in the Chicago and Milwaukee metropolitan areas. 
Financing of Life Insurance Premiums  In 2007, FIFC began financing life insurance policy premiums generally used for estate planning purposes of high net-worth borrowers. In 2009, FIFC expanded this niche lending business segment when it
purchased a portfolio of domestic life insurance premium finance loans for an aggregate purchase price of $745.9 million. 
FIFC originated approximately $469.7 million in life insurance premium finance receivables in 2011. These loans are originated directly
with the borrowers with assistance from life insurance carriers, independent insurance agents, financial advisors and/or legal counsel. The cash surrender value of the life insurance policy is the primary form of collateral. In addition, these loans
often are secured with a letter of credit, marketable securities or certificates of deposit. In some cases, FIFC may make a loan that has a partially unsecured position. Similar to the commercial insurance premium finance receivables, the majority
of life insurance premium finance receivables are purchased by the banks in order to more fully utilize their lending capacity as these loans generally provide the banks with higher yields than alternative investments. 
The Company believes that its life insurance premium finance loans have a lower level of risk and delinquency than the Company’s
commercial and residential real estate loans because of the nature of the collateral. The life insurance policy is the primary form of collateral. If cash surrender value is not sufficient, then letters of credit, marketable securities or
certificates of deposit are used to provide additional security. Since the collateral is highly liquid and generally has a value in excess of the loan amount, any defaults or delinquencies are generally cured relatively quickly by the borrower or
the collateral is generally liquidated in an expeditious manner to satisfy the loan obligation. Greater than 95% of loans are fully secured. However, less than 5% of the loans are partially unsecured and in those cases, a greater risk exists for
default. No loans are originated on a fully unsecured basis.  As with the commercial premium finance business, the primary
driver of profitability related to the financing of life insurance premiums is the net interest spread that FIFC can produce between the yields on the loans generated and the cost of funds allocated to the business unit. Profitability of financing
both commercial and life insurance premiums is also meaningfully impacted by leveraging information technology systems, maintaining operational efficiency and increasing average loan size, each of which allows us to expand our loan volume without
significant capital investment.  Wealth Management Activities 
We currently offer a full range of wealth management services including trust and investment services, asset management services and
securities brokerage services, through three separate subsidiaries including WHI, CTC and Great Lakes Advisors. In October 2010, the Company changed the name of its trust and investment services subsidiary, Wayne Hummer Trust Company, N.A., to the
Chicago Trust Company, N.A. Additionally, in July 2011, the Company’s asset management company, Wayne Hummer Asset Management Company, changed its name to Great Lakes Advisors, LLC. 
The primary influences on the profitability of the wealth management business can be associated with the level of commission received
related to the trading performed by the brokerage customers for their accounts and the amount of assets under management for which asset management and trust units receive a management fee for advisory, administrative and custodial services. As
such, revenues are influenced by a rise or fall in the debt and equity markets and the resulting increase or decrease in the value of our client accounts on which our fees are based. The commissions received by the brokerage unit are not as directly
influenced by the directionality of the debt and equity markets but rather the desire of our customers to engage in trading based on their particular situations and outlooks of the market or particular stocks and bonds. Profitability in the
brokerage business is impacted by commissions which fluctuate over time.  Federal Government, Federal Reserve and FDIC Programs
 During the past three years, the federal government, the New York Fed and the FDIC have made a number of programs
available to banks and other financial institutions in an effort to ensure a well-functioning U.S. financial system. The Company participated in 
  40 


three such programs. Two of these programs, the CPP of the Treasury and the New York
Fed’s TALF, have provided the Company with a significant amount of relatively inexpensive funding, which the Company used to accelerate its growth cycle and expand lending. 
Capital Purchase Program. In October 2008, the Treasury announced that it intended to use a portion of the initial funds allocated
to it pursuant to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, to invest directly in financial institutions through the newly-created CPP which was “designed to attract broad participation by healthy institutions” which “have
plenty of capital to get through this period, but are not positioned to lend as widely as is necessary to support our economy.” In December 2008, the Company sold the Treasury $250 million in the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock, and
warrants to purchase the Company’s common stock.  On December 22, 2010, the Company repurchased all the shares of
Series B Preferred Stock. The Series B Preferred Stock was repurchased at a price of $251.3 million, which included accrued and unpaid dividends of $1.3 million. In addition, on February 14, 
2011, the Treasury sold, through an underwritten public offering to purchasers other than the Company, all of the Company’s warrants
that it had received in connection with the CPP investment.  Participation in the CPP placed a number of restrictions on the
Company, including limitations on the ability to increase dividends and restrictions on the compensation of its employees and executives. Participation in the CPP also subjected the Company to increased oversight by the Treasury, banking regulators
and Congress. As a result of the Company’s exit from the CPP, these restrictions have been terminated.  TALF-Eligible
Issuance. In addition, in September 2009, one of the Company’s subsidiaries sold $600 million in aggregate principal amount of its asset-backed notes in a securitization transaction sponsored by FIFC. The asset backed notes are eligible
collateral under TALF and certain investors therefore received non-recourse funding from the New York Fed in order to purchase the notes. As a result, FIFC believes it received greater proceeds at lower interest rates from the securitization than it
otherwise would have received in non-TALF-eligible transactions.  Increased FDIC Insurance for Non-Interest-Bearing
Transaction Accounts. Each of our bank subsidiaries have also benefited from federal programs which provide increased FDIC insurance coverage for certain deposit accounts. At present, the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations issued by the
FDIC provide unlimited federal insurance of the net amount of certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions, including our bank subsidiaries, through December 31, 2012. After December 31, 2012,
depositors will receive federal insurance up to the standard maximum deposit insurance amount of $250,000, which increased amount was made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act.  Financial Regulatory Reform  In July 2010, the President signed
into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains a comprehensive set of provisions designed to govern the practices and oversight of financial institutions and other participants in the financial markets. While final rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act
will occur over the course of several years, changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, could have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to change our business practices, requiring
us to meet more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, imposing additional costs on us, limiting fees we can charge for services, impacting the value of our assets, or
otherwise adversely affecting our businesses. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Given the uncertainty associated with the
manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies, the full extent of the impact that such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. 
The Dodd-Frank Act also addresses risks to the economy and the financial system. It contemplates enhanced regulation of derivatives,
restrictions on and additional disclosure of executive compensation, additional corporate governance requirements, and oversight of credit rating agencies. It also strengthens the ability of the regulatory agencies to supervise and examine bank
holding companies and their subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act requires a bank holding company that elects treatment as a financial holding company, including us, to be both well-capitalized and well-managed in addition to the existing requirement
that a financial holding company’s subsidiary banks be well-capitalized and well-managed. Bank holding companies and banks must also be both well-capitalized and well-managed in order to engage in interstate bank acquisitions. 
Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the issuance of new banking regulations regarding the establishment of minimum leverage
and risk-based capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks. These regulations, which are required to be effective within 18 months from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, are required to be no less stringent than current capital
requirements applied to insured depository institutions and may, in fact, be higher when established by the agencies. Although Wintrust’s outstanding trust preferred securities will remain eligible for Tier 1 capital treatment, any future
issuances of trust preferred securities will not be Tier 1 capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the regulatory agencies to seek to make capital requirements for bank holding companies and insured institutions countercyclical, so that capital
requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. In December, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules requiring annual stress tests and the establishment of a risk committee. If implemented
as proposed, these rules will result in increased compliance costs. 
  41 


Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have near-term effect on the Company. In
particular, effective one year from the date of enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated U.S. federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending upon market
response, this change could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions that changed the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to average total
consolidated assets less average tangible capital, eliminated the maximum size of the DIF eliminated the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds, and increased the minimum
reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35%. On December 14, 2010, the FDIC released a final rule setting the designated reserve ratio at 2%, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule
implementing the changes to the deposit assessment base under the Dodd-Frank Act. The FDIC has indicated that these changes will generally not require an increase in the level of assessments, and may result in decreased assessments, for depository
institutions (such as each of our bank subsidiaries) with less than $10 billion in assets.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act
gave the Federal Reserve Board the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers, such as our bank subsidiaries, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be
reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. The Federal Reserve issued final regulations that were effective in October 2011, and that limit interchange fees for electronic debit transactions to 21 cents plus .05%
of the transaction, plus an additional 1 cent per transaction fraud adjustment. The rule also imposes requirements regarding routing and exclusivity of electronic debit transactions. 
Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Bureau within the Federal Reserve, which will regulate consumer financial products and
services. On July 21, 2011, many of the consumer financial protection functions currently assigned to the federal banking and other designated agencies shifted to the Bureau. The Bureau now has broad rulemaking authority over a wide range of
consumer protection laws that apply to banks and thrifts, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive practices” to ensure that all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial products and services, and
that such markets are fair, transparent and competitive. In particular, the Bureau may enact sweeping reforms in the mortgage broker industry which may increase the costs of engaging in these activities for all market participants, including our
subsidiaries. Additionally, the Bureau has broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority. In addition, state attorneys general and other state officials will be authorized to enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau.
 The Dodd-Frank Act changes federal preemption available for national banks and eliminates federal preemption for subsidiaries
of national banks, which may subject the Company’s national banks and their subsidiaries, including Wintrust Mortgage, to additional state regulation. With regard to mortgage lending, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes new requirements regarding the
origination and servicing of residential mortgage loans. The law creates a variety of new consumer protections, including limitations on the manner by which loan originators may be compensated and an obligation on the part of lenders to assess and
verify a borrower’s “ability to repay” a residential mortgage loan.  The Dodd-Frank Act also enhanced
provisions relating to affiliate and insider lending restrictions and loans to one borrower limitations. Federal banking law limits a national bank’s ability to extend credit to one person (or group of related persons) in an amount exceeding
certain thresholds. The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the scope of these restrictions to include credit exposure arising from derivative transactions, repurchase agreements, and securities lending and borrowing transactions. It also eventually will
prohibit state-chartered banks (including certain of the Company’s banking subsidiaries) from engaging in derivative transactions unless the state lending limit laws take into account credit exposure to such transactions. 
In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act added a new Section 13 to the Bank Holding Company Act, the so-called “Volcker Rule,”
which generally restricts certain banking entities, and their subsidiaries or affiliates, from engaging in proprietary trading activities and owning equity in or sponsoring any private equity or hedge fund. The Volcker Rule becomes effective
July 21, 2012. The draft implementing regulations for the Volcker Rule were issued by various regulatory agencies on October 11 and 12, 2011. Under the proposed regulations, we (or our affiliates) may be restricted from engaging in
proprietary trading, investing in third party hedge or private equity funds or sponsoring new funds unless we qualify for an exemption from the rule. We will not know the full impact of the Volcker Rule on our operations or financial condition until
the final implementing regulations are adopted sometime in 2012.  Recent Actions Related to Capital and Liquidity 
In December 2010 and January 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published reforms regarding changes to bank capital,
leverage and liquidity requirements, commonly referred to as “Basel III.” The Basel III rules are intended to apply to large, internationally active banking organizations, and should not apply to us. If implemented without change by U.S.
banking regulators, the provisions of Basel III may have significant impact on requirements including heightened requirements applicable to such organizations regarding Tier 1 common equity, and alterations to bank liquidity standards. In addition,
while we do not expect to be subject to Basel III, in implementing Basel III, the U.S. Federal banking agencies may decide to make similar changes to the capital requirements applicable to other banking organizations, including us. 
  42 


We are not able to predict at this time the content of capital and liquidity guidelines or
regulations that may be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us and our subsidiaries or the impact that any changes in regulation would have on us. If new standards require us or our banking subsidiaries to maintain more capital,
with common equity as a more predominant component, or manage the configuration of our assets and liabilities in order to comply with formulaic liquidity requirements, such regulation could significantly impact our return on equity, financial
condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business opportunities.  Recent Acquisition Transactions 
FDIC-Assisted Transactions  On July 8, 2011, the Company announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary bank, Northbrook Bank, acquired certain assets and liabilities and the banking operations of First Chicago Bank &
Trust (“First Chicago”) in an FDIC-assisted transaction. First Chicago operated seven locations in Illinois: three in Chicago, one each in Bloomingdale, Itasca, Norridge and Park Ridge, and had approximately $768.9 million in total assets
and $667.8 million in total deposits as of the acquisition date. Northbrook Bank acquired substantially all of First Chicago’s assets at a discount of approximately 12% and assumed all of the non-brokered deposits at a premium of approximately
0.5%.  On March 25, 2011, the Company announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary bank, Advantage National Bank Group
(“Advantage”), acquired certain assets and liabilities and the banking operations of The Bank of Commerce (“TBOC”) in an FDIC-assisted transaction. TBOC operated one location in Wood Dale, Illinois and had approximately $174.0
million in total assets and $164.7 million in total deposits as of the acquisition date. Advantage acquired substantially all of TBOC’s assets at a discount of approximately 14% and assumed all of the non-brokered deposits at a premium of
approximately 0.1%. Advantage subsequently changed its name to Schaumburg Bank and Trust Company, N.A.  On February 4,
2011, the Company announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary bank, Northbrook Bank, acquired certain assets and liabilities and the banking operations of Community First Bank-Chicago (“CFBC”) in an FDIC-assisted transaction. CFBC operated
one location in Chicago and had approximately $50.9 million in total assets and $48.7 million in total deposits as of the acquisition date. Northbrook Bank acquired substantially all of CFBC’s assets at a discount of approximately 8% and
assumed all of the non-brokered deposits at a premium of approximately 0.5%.  On August 6, 2010, the Company announced
that its wholly-owned subsidiary bank, Northbrook Bank, acquired the banking operations of Ravenswood Bank (“Ravenswood”) in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Northbrook Bank acquired assets with a fair value of approximately $174 million, and
assumed liabilities with a fair value of approximately $123 million. Additionally, on April 23, 2010, the Company acquired the banking operations of two entities in FDIC-assisted transactions. Northbrook Bank acquired assets with a fair value
of approximately $157 million and assumed liabilities with a fair value of approximately $192 million of Lincoln Park Savings Bank (“Lincoln Park”). Wheaton Bank acquired assets with a fair value of approximately $344 million and assumed
liabilities with a fair value of approximately $416 million of Wheatland Bank (“Wheatland”).  Loans comprise the
majority of the assets acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions and are subject to loss sharing agreements with the FDIC where the FDIC has agreed to reimburse the Company for 80% of losses incurred on the purchased loans, other real estate owned, and
certain other assets. Additionally, the loss share agreements with the FDIC require the Company to reimburse the FDIC in the event that actual losses on covered assets are lower than the original loss estimates agreed upon with the FDIC with respect
to such assets in the loss share agreements. We refer to the loans subject to these loss-sharing agreements as “covered loans.” We use the term “covered assets” to refer to the total of covered loans, covered OREO and certain
other covered assets. At their respective acquisition dates, the Company estimated the fair value of the reimbursable losses, which were approximately $273.3 million, $48.9 million and $6.7 million related to the First Chicago, TBOC and CFBC
acquisitions, respectively. The agreements with the FDIC require that the Company follow certain servicing procedures or risk losing the FDIC reimbursement of losses related to covered assets. 
The loans covered by the loss sharing agreements are classified and presented as covered loans and the estimated reimbursable losses are
recorded as FDIC indemnification assets, both in the Consolidated Statements of Condition. The Company recorded the acquired assets and liabilities at their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The fair value for loans reflected expected
credit losses at the acquisition date, therefore the Company will only recognize a provision for credit losses and charge-offs on the acquired loans for any further credit deterioration. The FDIC-assisted transactions resulted in bargain purchase
gains of $27.4 million for First Chicago, $8.6 million for TBOC and $2.0 million for CFBC, which are shown as a component of non-interest income on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 
In 2010, the Company created the Purchased Assets Division comprised of experienced lenders and finance staff. The Purchased Asset
Division is responsible for managing the loan portfolios acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions in addition to managing the financial and regulatory reporting of these transactions. For operations acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions, detailed
reporting needs to be submitted to the FDIC on at least a quarterly basis for any assets which are subject to the loss-sharing agreements mentioned above. Reporting on the status of covered assets may continue for five to ten years from the date of
acquisition depending on the type of assets acquired. 
  43 


Other Transactions  On September 30, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of Elgin State Bancorp, Inc. (“ESBI”). ESBI was the parent company of Elgin State Bank, which operated three banking locations
in Elgin, Illinois. As part of the transaction, Elgin State Bank merged into the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary bank, St. Charles, and the three acquired banking locations are operating as branches of St. Charles under the brand name Elgin
State Bank. Elgin State Bank had approximately $263.2 million in assets and $241.1 million in deposits as of September 30, 2011.  On July 1, 2011, the Company acquired Great Lakes Advisors, a Chicago-based investment manager with approximately $2.4 billion in assets under management. Great Lakes Advisors merged with
Wintrust’s existing asset management business, Wintrust Capital Management, LLC and operates as “Great Lakes Advisors, LLC, a Wintrust Wealth Management Company”. 
On April 13, 2011, the Company announced the acquisition of certain assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of the mortgage
banking business of River City Mortgage, LLC (“River City”) of Bloomington, Minnesota. With offices in Minnesota, Nebraska and North Dakota, River City originated nearly $500 million in mortgage loans in 2010. 
On February 3, 2011, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the mortgage banking business of
Woodfield Planning Corporation (“Woodfield”) of Rolling Meadows, Illinois. With offices in Rolling Meadows, Illinois and Crystal Lake, Illinois, Woodfield originated approximately $180 million in mortgage loans in 2010. 
On October 22, 2010, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary bank, Wheaton Bank, acquired a branch of First National Bank of
Brookfield that is located in Naperville, Illinois. Through this transaction, Wheaton Bank acquired approximately $23 million of deposits, approximately $11 million of performing loans, the property, bank facility and various other assets. This
branch operates as Naperville Bank & Trust. 
  44 


SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States and prevailing practices of the banking industry. Application of these principles requires management to make estimates, assumptions, and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
Certain policies and accounting principles inherently have a greater reliance on the use of estimates, assumptions and judgments, and as such have a greater possibility that changes in those estimates and assumptions could produce financial results
that are materially different than originally reported. Estimates, assumptions and judgments are necessary when assets and liabilities are required to be recorded at fair value, when a decline in the value of an asset not carried on the financial
statements at fair value warrants an impairment write-down or valuation reserve to be established, or when an asset or liability needs to be recorded contingent upon a future event, are based on information available as of the date of the financial
statements; accordingly, as information changes, the financial statements could reflect different estimates and assumptions. 
A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These
policies, along with the disclosures presented in the other financial statement notes and in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis section, provide information on how significant assets and liabilities are valued in the financial statements
and how those values are determined. Management views critical accounting policies to be those which are highly dependent on subjective or complex judgments, estimates and assumptions, and where changes in those estimates and assumptions could have
a significant impact on the financial statements. Management currently views critical accounting policies to include the determination of the allowance for loan losses, allowance for covered loan losses and the allowance for losses on
lending-related commitments, loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination, estimations of fair value, the valuations required for impairment testing of goodwill, the valuation and accounting for derivative
instruments and income taxes as the accounting areas that require the most subjective and complex judgments, and as such could be most subject to revision as new information becomes available. 
Allowance for Loan Losses, Allowance for Covered Loan Losses and Allowance for Losses on Lending-Related Commitments 
The allowance for loan losses and the allowance for covered loan losses represent management’s estimate of probable credit losses
inherent in the loan portfolio. Determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses is considered a critical accounting estimate because it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates related to the amount and timing of expected
future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on historical loss experience, and consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of which are susceptible to significant change. The loan
portfolio also represents the largest asset type on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company also maintains an allowance for lending-related commitments, specifically unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit, which relates to certain
amounts the Company is committed to lend but for which funds have not yet been disbursed. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section titled “Loan Portfolio and Asset Quality” later in this report for a description
of the methodology used to determine the allowance for loan losses, allowance for covered loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments.  Loans Acquired with Evidence of Credit Quality Deterioration since Origination  Under accounting guidance applicable to loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the estimated fair value is
referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income over the remaining estimated life of the loans, using the effective-interest method. The difference between contractually required payments at acquisition and the cash flows
expected to be collected at acquisition is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. Changes in the expected cash flows from the date of acquisition will either impact the accretable yield or result in a charge to the provision for credit losses.
Subsequent decreases to expected principal cash flows will result in a charge to provision for credit losses and a corresponding increase to allowance for loan losses. Subsequent increases in expected principal cash flows will result in recovery of
any previously recorded allowance for loan losses, to the extent applicable, and a reclassification from nonaccretable difference to accretable yield for any remaining increase. All changes in expected interest cash flows, including the impact of
prepayments, will result in reclassifications to/from nonaccretable differences.  Estimations of Fair Value 
A portion of the Company’s assets and liabilities are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Statements of Condition, with
changes in fair value recorded either through earnings or other comprehensive income in accordance with applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These include the Company’s trading account securities,
available-for-sale securities, derivatives, mortgage loans held-for-sale, mortgage servicing rights and retained interests from the sale of premium finance receivables. The estimation of fair value also affects certain other mortgage loans
held-for-sale, which are not recorded at fair value but at the lower of cost or market. The determination of fair value is important for certain other assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, impaired loans, and other real estate
owned that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates. 
  45 


Fair value is generally defined as the amount at which an asset or liability could be
exchanged in a current transaction between willing, unrelated parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Fair value is based on quoted market prices in an active market, or if market prices are not available, is estimated using models
employing techniques such as matrix pricing or discounting expected cash flows. The significant assumptions used in the models, which include assumptions for interest rates, discount rates, prepayments and credit losses, are independently verified
against observable market data where possible. Where observable market data is not available, the estimate of fair value becomes more subjective and involves a high degree of judgment. In this circumstance, fair value is estimated based on
management’s judgment regarding the value that market participants would assign to the asset or liability. This valuation process takes into consideration factors such as market illiquidity. Imprecision in estimating these factors can impact
the amount recorded on the balance sheet for a particular asset or liability with related impacts to earnings or other comprehensive income. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements later in this report for a further discussion of fair
value measurements.  Impairment Testing of Goodwill 
The Company performs impairment testing of goodwill on an annual basis or more frequently when events warrant. Valuations are estimated
in good faith by management through the use of publicly available valuations of comparable entities or discounted cash flow models using internal financial projections in the reporting unit’s business plan. 
The goodwill impairment analysis involves a two-step process. The first step is a comparison of the reporting unit’s fair value to
its carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit was determined to have been higher than its fair value, the second step would have to be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. The second step allocates the fair value to
all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical analysis that would calculate the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the
recorded goodwill, the Company would record an impairment charge for the difference.  The goodwill impairment analysis
requires management to make subjective judgments in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Events and factors that may significantly affect the analysis include: a significant decline in the Company’s expected future cash
flows, a substantial increase in the discount factor, a sustained, significant decline in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate. Other factors might include
changing competitive forces, customer behaviors and attrition, revenue trends, cost structures, along with specific industry and market conditions. Adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of intangible
assets and could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  As of December 31,
2011, the Company had three reporting units; Community Banking, Specialty Finance and Wealth Management. Based on the Company’s 2011 goodwill impairment testing, the fair values for all three reporting units were in excess of their carrying
value. The Company used a discounted cash flow analysis for these reporting units, using projected cash flows that were based on growth and terminal value assumptions, among other factors. No goodwill impairment was indicated for any of the
reporting units.  Derivative Instruments  The Company utilizes derivative instruments to manage risks such as interest rate risk or market risk. The Company’s policy prohibits using derivatives for speculative purposes. 
Accounting for derivatives differs significantly depending on whether a derivative is designated as a hedge, which is a transaction
intended to reduce a risk associated with a specific asset or liability or future expected cash flow at the time it is purchased. In order to qualify as a hedge, a derivative must be designated as such by management. Management must also continue to
evaluate whether the instrument effectively reduces the risk associated with that item. To determine if a derivative instrument continues to be an effective hedge, the Company must make assumptions and judgments about the continued effectiveness of
the hedging strategies and the nature and timing of forecasted transactions. If the Company’s hedging strategy were to become ineffective, hedge accounting would no longer apply and the reported results of operations or financial condition
could be materially affected.  Income Taxes  The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and other jurisdictions where it conducts business. These laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer
and the various taxing authorities. In determining the provision for income taxes, management must make judgments and estimates about the application of these inherently complex laws, related regulations and case law. In the process of preparing the
Company’s tax returns, management attempts to make reasonable interpretations of the tax laws. These interpretations are subject to challenge by the tax authorities upon audit or to reinterpretation based on management’s ongoing assessment
of facts and evolving case law. Management reviews its uncertain tax positions and recognition of the benefits of such positions on a regular basis.  On a quarterly basis, management assesses the reasonableness of its effective tax rate based upon its current best estimate of net income and the applicable taxes expected for the full year. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are reassessed on a quarterly basis, if business events or circumstances warrant. 
  46 


CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The following discussion of Wintrust’s results of operations requires an understanding that a majority of the Company’s bank
subsidiaries have been started as new banks since December 1991. Wintrust is still a relatively young company that has a strategy of continuing to build its customer base and securing broad product penetration in each marketplace that it serves. The
Company has expanded its banking franchise from three banks with five offices in 1994 to 15 banks with 99 offices at the end of 2011. FIFC has matured from its limited operations in 1991 to a company that generated, on a national basis, $4.0 billion
in premium finance receivables in 2011. In addition, the wealth management companies have been building a team of experienced professionals who are located within a majority of the banks. These expansion activities have understandably suppressed
faster, opportunistic earnings. However, as the Company matures and its existing banks become more profitable, the start-up costs associated with bank and branch openings and other new financial services ventures will not have as significant an
impact on earnings as in prior periods.  Earnings Summary  Net income for the year ended December 31, 2011, totaled $77.6 million, or $1.67 per diluted common share, compared to $63.3 million, or $1.02 per diluted common share, in 2010, and $73.1 million, or
$2.18 per diluted common share, in 2009. During 2011, net income increased by $14.3 million while earnings per diluted common share increased by $0.65. During 2010, net income decreased by $9.8 million while earnings per diluted common share
decreased by $1.16. Financial results in 2011 increased from 2010 as a result of decreases in both interest expense on deposits and the provision for credit losses partially offset by increased salary and employee benefit costs. Financial results in
2010 decreased from 2009 as a result of fewer bargain purchase gains in 2010 partially offset by increases in interest income on loans as well as decreases in the provision for credit losses.  Net Interest Income  The primary source of the Company’s revenue is
net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income and fees on earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on the liabilities to fund those assets, including interest bearing deposits and other
borrowings. The amount of net interest income is affected by both changes in the level of interest rates and the amount and composition of earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Net interest margin represents tax-equivalent net interest
income as a percentage of the average earning assets during the period.  Tax-equivalent net interest
income in 2011 totaled $463.1 million, up from $417.6 million in 2010 and $314.1 million in 2009, representing an increase of $45.5 million, or 11%, in 2011 and an increase of $103.5 million, or 33%, in 2010. The table presented later in this
section, titled “Changes in Interest Income and Expense,” presents the dollar amount of changes in interest income and expense, by major category, attributable to changes in the volume of the balance sheet category and changes in the rate
earned or paid with respect to that category of assets or liabilities for 2011 and 2010. Average earning assets increased $1.1 billion, or 9%, in 2011 and $2.0 billion, or 19%, in 2010. Loans are the most significant component of the earning asset
base as they earn interest at a higher rate than the other earning assets, excluding covered loans. Average loans, excluding covered loans, increased $671.9 million, or 7%, in 2011 and $1.1 billion, or 14%, in 2010. Total average loans, excluding
covered loans, as a percentage of total average earning assets were 75%, 76% and 80% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average yield on loans, excluding covered loans, was 5.03% in 2011, 5.67% in 2010 and 5.59% in 2009, reflecting a decrease
of 64 basis points in 2011 and an increase of eight basis points in 2010. The lower loan yield in 2011 compared to 2010 was due to the negative impact of both competitive and economic pricing pressures. The higher loan yield in 2010 compared to 2009
resulted primarily from higher accretion on the purchased life insurance portfolio as more prepayments occurred in 2010. The average rate paid on interest bearing deposits, the largest component of the Company’s interest bearing liabilities,
was 0.88% in 2011, 1.32% in 2010 and 2.03% in 2009, representing a decrease of 44 basis points in 2011 and 71 basis points in 2010. The lower level of interest bearing deposits rates in 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 was due to
continued downward re-pricing of retail deposits in recent years. In 2008, the Company also expanded its
MaxSafe® suite of products (primarily certificates of deposit and money market accounts) which, due to the
Company’s fifteen individual bank charters, offer a customer higher FDIC insurance than a customer can achieve at a single charter bank. These MaxSafe® products can typically be priced at lower rates than other certificates of deposit or money market accounts due to the convenience of obtaining the higher FDIC
insurance coverage by visiting only one location.  Net interest margin increased to 3.42% in 2011 compared to 3.37% in 2010.
The increase in net interest margin in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily caused by lower costs for interest-bearing deposits and increased balances and higher yields on covered loans, partially offset by lower yields on loans and a lower
contribution from net free funds.  Net interest income and net interest margin were also affected by amortization of valuation
adjustments to earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of acquired businesses. Under the acquisition method of accounting, assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are required to be recognized at their estimated fair value at the date
of acquisition. These valuation adjustments represent the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of assets and liabilities acquired. These adjustments are amortized into interest income and interest expense based upon the
estimated remaining lives of the assets and liabilities acquired, typically on an accelerated basis. 
  47 


Average Balance Sheets, Interest Income and Expense, and Interest Rate Yields and Costs 
The following table sets forth the average balances, the interest earned or paid thereon, and the effective interest rate, yield or cost
for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The yields and costs include loan origination fees and certain direct origination costs that are
considered adjustments to yields. Interest income on non-accruing loans is reflected in the year that it is collected, to the extent it is not applied to principal. Such amounts are not material to net interest income or the net change in net
interest income in any year. Non-accrual loans are included in the average balances. Net interest income and the related net interest margin have been adjusted to reflect tax-exempt income, such as interest on municipal securities and loans, on a
tax-equivalent basis. This table should be referred to in conjunction with this analysis and discussion of the financial condition and results of operations:   








































 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 (Dollars in thousands)
 
 Average
Balance
 
 
Interest
 
 
AverageYield/Rate
 
 
 Average
Balance
 
 
Interest
 
 
AverageYield/Rate
 
 
 Average
Balance
 
 
Interest
 
 
AverageYield/Rate
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest bearing deposits with banks
 
$
898,967
  
 
$
3,419
  
 
 
0.38
% 
 
$
1,202,750
  
 
$
5,171
  
 
 
0.43
% 
 
$
605,644
  
 
$
3,574
  
 
 
0.59
%   

 Securities
 
 
1,895,566
  
 
 
49,740
  
 
 
2.62
  
 
 
1,402,255
  
 
 
40,211
  
 
 
2.87
  
 
 
1,392,346
  
 
 
59,091
  
 
 
4.24
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
 
 
45,624
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
0.25
  
 
 
49,008
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
0.32
  
 
 
88,663
  
 
 
271
  
 
 
0.31
  

 Total liquidity management assets (1)
(6)
 
 
2,840,157
  
 
 
53,275
  
 
 
1.88
  
 
 
2,654,013
  
 
 
45,539
  
 
 
1.72
  
 
 
2,086,653
  
 
 
62,936
  
 
 
3.02
  

 Other earning assets (1) (2) (6)
 
 
28,570
  
 
 
816
  
 
 
2.86
  
 
 
45,021
  
 
 
1,067
  
 
 
2.37
  
 
 
23,979
  
 
 
659
  
 
 
2.75
  

 Loans, net of unearned income (1) (3)
(6)
 
 
10,145,462
  
 
 
509,870
  
 
 
5.03
  
 
 
9,473,589
  
 
 
537,534
  
 
 
5.67
  
 
 
8,335,421
  
 
 
466,239
  
 
 
5.59
  

 Covered loans
 
 
520,550
  
 
 
43,526
  
 
 
8.36
  
 
 
232,206
  
 
 
10,695
  
 
 
4.61
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total earning assets (6)
 
 
13,534,739
  
 
 
607,487
  
 
 
4.49
  
 
 
12,404,829
  
 
 
594,835
  
 
 
4.80
  
 
 
10,446,053
  
 
 
529,834
  
 
 
5.07
  

 Allowance for loan losses
 
 
(127,660
) 
 



 



 
 
(111,503
) 
 



 



 
 
(82,029
) 
 



 




 Cash and due from banks
 
 
138,795
  
 



 



 
 
137,547
  
 



 



 
 
108,471
  
 



 




 Other assets
 
 
1,374,286
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,125,739
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
942,827
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total assets
 
$
14,920,160
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
13,556,612
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
11,415,322
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 












 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Deposits — interest bearing:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 NOW accounts
 
$
1,568,151
  
 
$
5,614
  
 
 
0.36
% 
 
$
1,508,063
  
 
$
8,840
  
 
 
0.59
% 
 
$
1,136,008
  
 
$
8,168
  
 
 
0.72
%   

 Wealth management deposits
 
 
705,736
  
 
 
740
  
 
 
0.10
  
 
 
734,837
  
 
 
2,263
  
 
 
0.31
  
 
 
907,013
  
 
 
6,301
  
 
 
0.69
  

 Money market accounts
 
 
1,985,881
  
 
 
8,639
  
 
 
0.44
  
 
 
1,666,554
  
 
 
12,196
  
 
 
0.73
  
 
 
1,375,767
  
 
 
17,779
  
 
 
1.29
  

 Savings accounts
 
 
795,828
  
 
 
2,188
  
 
 
0.27
  
 
 
619,024
  
 
 
3,655
  
 
 
0.59
  
 
 
457,139
  
 
 
4,385
  
 
 
0.96
  

 Time deposits
 
 
4,956,926
  
 
 
70,757
  
 
 
1.43
  
 
 
4,881,472
  
 
 
96,825
  
 
 
1.98
  
 
 
4,543,154
  
 
 
134,626
  
 
 
2.96
  

 Total interest bearing deposits
 
 
10,012,522
  
 
 
87,938
  
 
 
0.88
  
 
 
9,409,950
  
 
 
123,779
  
 
 
1.32
  
 
 
8,419,081
  
 
 
171,259
  
 
 
2.03
  












 Federal Home Loan Bank advances
 
 
449,874
  
 
 
16,320
  
 
 
3.63
  
 
 
418,981
  
 
 
16,520
  
 
 
3.94
  
 
 
434,520
  
 
 
18,002
  
 
 
4.14
  

 Notes payable and other borrowings
 
 
384,256
  
 
 
11,023
  
 
 
2.87
  
 
 
229,569
  
 
 
5,943
  
 
 
2.59
  
 
 
258,322
  
 
 
7,064
  
 
 
2.73
  

 Secured borrowings — owed to securitization investors
 
 
600,000
  
 
 
12,113
  
 
 
2.02
  
 
 
600,000
  
 
 
12,365
  
 
 
2.06
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Subordinated notes
 
 
43,411
  
 
 
750
  
 
 
1.70
  
 
 
56,370
  
 
 
995
  
 
 
1.74
  
 
 
66,205
  
 
 
1,627
  
 
 
2.42
  

 Junior subordinated notes
 
 
249,493
  
 
 
16,272
  
 
 
6.43
  
 
 
249,493
  
 
 
17,668
  
 
 
6.98
  
 
 
249,497
  
 
 
17,786
  
 
 
7.03
  

 Total interest-bearing liabilities
 
$
11,739,556
  
 
$
144,416
  
 
 
1.23
% 
 
$
10,964,363
  
 
$
177,270
  
 
 
1.61
% 
 
$
9,427,625
  
 
$
215,738
  
 
 
2.29
% 












 Non-interest bearing deposits
 
 
1,481,594
  
 



 



 
 
984,416
  
 



 



 
 
788,034
  
 



 




 Other liabilities
 
 
214,290
  
 



 



 
 
255,698
  
 



 



 
 
117,871
  
 



 




 Equity
 
 
1,484,720
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,352,135
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,081,792
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
 
$
14,920,160
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
13,556,612
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
11,415,322
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 












 Interest rate spread (4) (6)
 



 



 
 
3.26
% 
 



 



 
 
3.19
% 
 



 



 
 
2.78
%   

 Net free funds/contribution (5)
 
$
1,795,183
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.16
% 
 
$
1,440,466
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.18
% 
 
$
1,018,428
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.23
%   

 Net interest income/Net interest margin(6)
 
 
 
 
 
$
463,071
  
 
 
3.42
% 
 
 
 
 
 
$
417,565
  
 
 
3.37
% 
 
 
 
 
 
$
314,096
  
 
 
3.01
%   
  


(1)
 Interest income on tax-advantaged loans, trading securities and securities reflects a tax-equivalent adjustment based on a marginal federal
corporate tax rate of 35%. The total adjustments for both of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $1.7 million, respectively. The total adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $2.2 million.
  


(2)
 Other earning assets include brokerage customer receivables and trading account securities. 
 


(3)
 Loans, net of unearned income, include loans held-for-sale and non-accrual loans. 
 


(4)
 Interest rate spread is the difference between the yield earned on earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities.
  


(5)
 Net free funds are the difference between total average earning assets and total average interest-bearing liabilities. The estimated contribution to
net interest margin from net free funds is calculated using the rate paid for total interest-bearing liabilities.   


(6)
 See “Supplemental Financial Measures/Ratios” for additional information on this performance ratio. 
  48 


Changes In Interest Income and Expense 
The following table shows the dollar amount of changes in interest income (on a tax-equivalent basis) and expense by major categories of
interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities attributable to changes in volume or rate for the periods indicated:   




























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011 Compared to 2010
 
 
2010 Compared to 2009
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
ChangeDue toRate
 
 
ChangeDue toVolume
 
 
TotalChange
 
 
ChangeDue toRate
 
 
ChangeDue toVolume
 
 
TotalChange
 

 Interest income:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest bearing deposits with banks
  
$
(553
) 
 
 
(1,199
) 
 
 
(1,752
) 
 
$
(1,176
) 
 
 
2,773
  
 
 
1,597 
  

 Securities
  
 
(3,663
) 
 
 
13,192
  
 
 
9,529
  
 
 
(19,188
) 
 
 
308
  
 
 
(18,880
)   

 Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements
  
 
(31
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
8
  
 
 
(122
) 
 
 
(114
)   

 Total liquidity management assets 
  
 
(4,247
) 
 
 
11,983
  
 
 
7,736
  
 
 
(20,356
) 
 
 
2,959
  
 
 
(17,397
)   

 Other earning assets
  
 
191
  
 
 
(442
) 
 
 
(251
) 
 
 
(102
) 
 
 
510
  
 
 
408 
  

 Loans, net of unearned income 
  
 
(63,796
) 
 
 
36,132
  
 
 
(27,664
) 
 
 
6,758
  
 
 
64,537
  
 
 
71,295 
  

 Covered loans
  
 
13,001
  
 
 
19,830
  
 
 
32,831
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,695
  
 
 
10,695 
  

 Total interest income
  
 
(54,851
) 
 
 
67,503
  
 
 
12,652
  
 
 
(13,700
) 
 
 
78,701
  
 
 
65,001 
  









 Interest Expense:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Deposits — interest bearing:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 NOW accounts
  
 
(3,701
) 
 
 
475
  
 
 
(3,226
) 
 
 
(1,822
) 
 
 
2,494
  
 
 
672 
  

 Wealth management deposits
  
 
(963
) 
 
 
(560
) 
 
 
(1,523
) 
 
 
(1,982
) 
 
 
(2,056
) 
 
 
(4,038
)   

 Money market accounts
  
 
(5,545
) 
 
 
1,988
  
 
 
(3,557
) 
 
 
(8,806
) 
 
 
3,223
  
 
 
(5,583
)   

 Savings accounts
  
 
(2,328
) 
 
 
861
  
 
 
(1,467
) 
 
 
(2,000
) 
 
 
1,270
  
 
 
(730
)   

 Time deposits
  
 
(26,165
) 
 
 
97
  
 
 
(26,068
) 
 
 
(48,078
) 
 
 
10,277
  
 
 
(37,801
)   

 Total interest expense — deposits
  
 
(38,702
) 
 
 
2,861
  
 
 
(35,841
) 
 
 
(62,688
) 
 
 
15,208
  
 
 
(47,480
)   

 Federal Home Loan Bank advances
  
 
(1,360
) 
 
 
1,160
  
 
 
(200
) 
 
 
(851
) 
 
 
(631
) 
 
 
(1,482
)   

 Notes payable and other borrowings
  
 
703
  
 
 
4,377
  
 
 
5,080
  
 
 
(398
) 
 
 
(723
) 
 
 
(1,121
)   

 Secured borrowings — owed to securitization investors
  
 
(252
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(252
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
12,365
  
 
 
12,365 
  

 Subordinated notes
  
 
(22
) 
 
 
(223
) 
 
 
(245
) 
 
 
(413
) 
 
 
(219
) 
 
 
(632
)   

 Junior subordinated notes
  
 
(1,396
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,396
) 
 
 
(118
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(118
)   

 Total interest expense
  
 
(41,029
) 
 
 
8,175
  
 
 
(32,854
) 
 
 
(64,468
) 
 
 
26,000
  
 
 
(38,468
)   

 Net interest income
  
$
(13,822
) 
 
 
59,328
  
 
 
45,506
  
 
$
50,768
  
 
 
52,701
  
 
 
103,469  
  
 The changes in net interest income are created by changes in both interest rates and volumes. In the
table above, volume variances are computed using the change in volume multiplied by the previous year’s rate. Rate variances are computed using the change in rate multiplied by the previous year’s volume. The change in interest due to both
rate and volume has been allocated between factors in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 
  49 


Non-Interest Income  Non-interest income totaled $189.7 million in 2011, $192.2 million in 2010 and $317.6 million in 2009, reflecting a decrease of 1% in 2011 compared to 2010 and a decrease of 40% in 2010 compared to 2009.
 The following table presents non-interest income by category for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 
 
































 
  
Years ended December 31,
 
 
2011 compared to 2010
 
 
2010 compared to 2009
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Brokerage
  
$
24,601
  
  
 
23,713
  
  
 
17,726
  
 
$
888
  
 
 
4
% 
 
$
5,987
  
 
 
34
%   

 Trust and asset management
  
 
19,916
  
  
 
13,228
  
  
 
10,631
  
 
 
6,688
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
2,597
  
 
 
24
  

 Total wealth management
  
 
44,517
  
  
 
36,941
  
  
 
28,357
  
 
 
7,576
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
8,584
  
 
 
30
  

 Mortgage banking
  
 
56,942
  
  
 
61,378
  
  
 
68,527
  
 
 
(4,436
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(7,149
) 
 
 
(10
)   

 Service charges on deposit accounts
  
 
14,963
  
  
 
13,433
  
  
 
13,037
  
 
 
1,530
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
396
  
 
 
3
  

 Gain on sales of commercial premium finance receivables
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
8,576
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(8,576
) 
 
 
(100
)   

 Gains (losses) on available-for - sale securities
  
 
1,792
  
  
 
9,832
  
  
 
(268
) 
 
 
(8,040
) 
 
 
(82
) 
 
 
10,100
  
 
 
NM
  

 Fees from covered call options
  
 
13,570
  
  
 
2,235
  
  
 
1,998
  
 
 
11,335
  
 
 
NM
  
 
 
237
  
 
 
12
  

 Gain on bargain purchases
  
 
37,974
  
  
 
44,231
  
  
 
156,013
  
 
 
(6,257
) 
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
(111,782
) 
 
 
(72
)   

 Trading gains
  
 
337
  
  
 
5,165
  
  
 
26,788
  
 
 
(4,828
) 
 
 
(93
) 
 
 
(21,623
) 
 
 
(81
)   

 Other:
  



  



  



 



 



 



 




 Bank Owned Life Insurance
  
 
2,569
  
  
 
2,404
  
  
 
2,044
  
 
 
165
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
360
  
 
 
18
  

 Administrative services
  
 
3,071
  
  
 
2,749
  
  
 
1,975
  
 
 
322
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
774
  
 
 
39
  

 Miscellaneous
  
 
13,963
  
  
 
13,792
  
  
 
10,600
  
 
 
171
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
3,192
  
 
 
30
  

 Total Other
  
 
19,603
  
  
 
18,945
  
  
 
14,619
  
 
 
658
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
4,326
  
 
 
30
  

 Total Non-Interest Income
  
$
189,698
  
  
 
192,160
  
  
 
317,647
  
 
$
(2,462
) 
 
 
(1
)% 
 
$
(125,487
) 
 
 
(40
)%   
   NM—Not Meaningful  Wealth management revenue is comprised of the
trust and asset management revenue of the CTC and Great Lakes Advisors and the brokerage commissions, managed money fees and insurance product commissions at WHI.  Brokerage revenue is directly impacted by trading volumes. In 2011, brokerage revenue totaled $24.6 million, reflecting an increase of $888,000, or 4%, compared to 2010. The increase in brokerage revenue
can be attributed to increased customer trading activity. In 2010, brokerage revenue totaled $23.7 million, reflecting an increase of $6.0 million, or 34%, compared to 2009. The increase in brokerage revenue in 2010 can be attributed to the
improvement in equity markets resulting in increased customer trading activity.  Trust and asset management revenue totaled
$19.9 million in 2011, an increase of $6.7 million, or 51%, compared to 2010. Trust and asset management revenue totaled $13.2 million in 2010, an increase of $2.6 million, or 24%, compared to 2009. Trust and asset management fees are based
primarily on the market value of the assets under management or administration. Higher asset levels associated with growth in the wealth management customer base, including those added as a result of the Great Lakes Advisors acquisition, have helped
drive revenue growth in 2011. Increased asset valuations due to equity market improvements helped growth from trust and asset management activities in 2010 as compared to 2009. 
Mortgage banking revenue includes revenue from activities related to originating, selling and servicing residential real estate loans for
the secondary market. Mortgage banking revenue totaled $56.9 million in 2011, $61.4 million in 2010, and $68.5 million in 2009, reflecting a decrease of $4.4 million, or 7%, in 2011, and a decrease of $7.1 million, or 10%, in 2010. Mortgages
originated and sold totaled $2.5 billion in 2011 compared to $3.7 billion in 2010 and $4.7 billion in 2009. The decrease in mortgage banking revenue in  2011 compared to 2010 can be primarily attributed to lower origination volumes resulting in fewer gains on sales of loans and other fees, partially offset by decreased recourse expense in 2011. The
decrease in mortgage banking revenue in 2010 compared to 2009 resulted primarily from an increase in loss indemnification claims and lower origination volumes, partially offset by higher margins on sales of loans primarily driven by utilizing
mandatory execution of forward commitments with investors in 2010. Additionally, the Company enters into residential mortgage loan sale agreements with investors in the normal course of business. These agreements provide recourse to investors
through certain representations concerning credit information, loan documentation, collateral and insurability. Investors request the Company to indemnify them against losses on certain loans or to repurchase loans which the investors believe do not
comply with applicable representations. An increase in requests for loss indemnification can negatively impact mortgage banking revenue as additional recourse expense. The Company recognized an additional $439,000 of recourse expense related to loss
indemnification claims in 2011 for loans previously sold, a decrease of $10.5 million compared to the $11.0 million of such expense recorded in 2010. This liability for loans expected to be repurchased is based on trends in repurchase and
indemnification requests, actual loss experience, known and inherent risks in the loans that have been sold, and current economic conditions. 
  50 


A summary of mortgage banking activities is shown below: 
 
















(Dollars in thousands)
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 


  
  
  
 

 Mortgage loans originated and sold
  
$
2,545,385    
  
  
$
3,746,127    
  
  
$
4,666,506    
  






 Mortgage loans serviced for others
  
 
958,749    
  
  
 
942,224    
  
  
 
738,372    
  

 Fair value of mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)
  
 
6,700    
  
  
 
8,762    
  
  
 
6,745    
  

 MSRs as a percentage of loans serviced
  
 
0.70%
  
  
 
0.93%
  
  
 
0.91%
  






 Gain on sales of loans and other fees
  
$
62,054    
  
  
$
75,303    
  
  
$
71,495    
  

 Mortgage servicing rights fair value adjustments
  
 
(4,673)  
  
  
 
(2,955)  
  
  
 
(2,031)  
  

 Recourse obligation on loans previously sold
  
 
(439)  
  
  
 
(10,970)  
  
  
 
(937)  
  


  
  
  
 

 Total mortgage banking revenue
  
$
56,942    
  
  
$
61,378    
  
  
$
68,527    
  


  
  
  
 






 Gain on sales of loans and other fees as a percentage of loans sold
  
 
2.44%
  
  
 
2.01%
  
  
 
1.53%  
  

  
 
 Service charges on deposit accounts totaled $15.0 million in 2011, $13.4 million in 2010 and $13.0
million in 2009, reflecting an increase of 11% in 2011 and 3% in 2010. The majority of deposit service charges relates to customary fees on overdrawn accounts and returned items. The level of service charges received is below peer group levels, as
management believes in the philosophy of providing high quality service without encumbering that service with numerous activity charges.  As a result of accounting requirements effective January 1, 2010, loans transferred into the securitization facility are accounted for as a secured borrowing rather than a sale. Therefore, the
Company no longer recognizes gains on sales of premium finance receivables for loans transferred into the securitization. Gain on sales of premium finance receivables of $8.6 million in 2009 is mainly attributable to the transfer of $1.2 billion of
premium finance receivables — commercial to a revolving securitization during the year.  The Company recognized $1.8
million of net gains on available-for-sale securities in 2011 compared to net gains of $9.8 million in 2010 and net losses of $268,000 in 2009. The net gains in 2010 primarily relate to the sale of certain collateralized mortgage obligations.
Included in net gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities are non-cash other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) charges recognized in income. The Company did not have any OTTI charges in 2011 and 2010. OTTI charges on certain
corporate debt investment securities were $2.6 million in 2009.  Fees from covered call option transactions totaled $13.6
million in 2011, $2.2 million in 2010 and $2.0 million in 2009. The Company has typically written call options with terms of less than three months against certain U.S. Treasury and agency securities held in its portfolio for liquidity and other
purposes. Historically, Management has effectively entered into these transactions with the goal of enhancing its overall return on its investment portfolio by using fees generated from these options to compensate for net interest margin
compression. These option transactions are designed to increase the total return associated with holding certain investment securities and do not qualify as hedges pursuant to accounting guidance. In 2010 and 2009, Management chose to engage in
minimal covered call option activity due to lower than acceptable security yields. There were no outstanding call option contracts at December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010 or December 31, 2009. 
Gain on bargain purchases totaled $38.0 million in 2011, $44.2 million in 2010, and $156.0 million in 2009, reflecting an decrease of
 $6.3 million in 2011 and a decrease of $111.8 million in 2010. The gain on bargain purchases in 2011 relates to the
FDIC-assisted acquisition of TBOC by Schaumburg and the FDIC-assisted acquisitions of CFBC and First Chicago by Northbrook. In 2010, the gains on bargain purchases primarily resulted from three FDIC-assisted bank acquisitions as well as the
acquisition of the life insurance premium finance receivable portfolio. In 2010, third party consents were received and all remaining funds held in escrow for the purchase of the life insurance premium finance receivable portfolio were released,
resulting in recognition of the remaining deferred bargain purchase gain. The gain on bargain purchase of $156.0 million recognized in 2009 resulted from the acquisition of the life insurance premium finance receivable portfolio. See Note 8 —
Business Combinations for a discussion of the transaction and gain calculation.  The Company recognized $337,000 of trading
gains in 2011, $5.2 million in 2010, and $26.8 million in 2009. The decrease in trading gains in 2011 compared to 2010 as well as 2010 compared to 2009 resulted primarily from realizing larger market value increases on certain collateralized
mortgage obligations which were sold in July 2010. The Company purchased these securities at a significant discount in the first quarter of 2009. These securities increased in value after their purchase due to market spreads tightening, increased
mortgage prepayments due to the favorable mortgage rate environment and lower than projected default rates.  Bank owned life
insurance (“BOLI”) generated non-interest income of $2.6 million in 2011, $2.4 million in 2010 and $2.0 million in 2009. This income typically represents adjustments to the cash surrender value of BOLI policies. The Company initially
purchased 
  51 


BOLI to consolidate existing term life insurance contracts of executive officers and to
mitigate the mortality risk associated with death benefits provided for in executive employment contracts and in connection with certain deferred compensation arrangements. The Company has also assumed additional BOLI since then as the result of the
acquisition of certain banks. The cash surrender value of BOLI totaled $101.0 million at December 31, 2011 and $92.2 million at December 31, 2010, and is included in other assets. 
Administrative services revenue generated by Tricom was $3.1 million in 2011, $2.7 million in 2010 and $2.0 million in 2009. This revenue
comprises income from administrative services, such as data processing of payrolls, billing and cash management services, to temporary staffing service clients located throughout the United States. Tricom also earns interest and fee income from
providing high-yielding, short-term accounts receivable financing to this same client base, which is included in the net interest income category. The increases in recent years are a result of an increase in the volume of Tricom’s client
billings.  Miscellaneous other non-interest income totaled $14.0 million in 2011, $13.8 million in 2010 and $10.6 million in
2009. Miscellaneous income includes loan servicing fees, service charges, swap fees and other fees. The increase in miscellaneous income in 2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily attributed to swap fee revenues from interest
rate hedging transactions related to both customer-based trades and the related matched trades with inter-bank dealer counterparties. The Company recognized $6.8 million of swap fee revenue in 2011 compared to $1.5 million in 2010 and $903,000 in
2009. The revenue recognized on this customer-based activity is sensitive to the pace of organic loan growth, the shape of the LIBOR curve and the customers’ expectations of interest rates. 
Non-Interest Expense 
Non-interest expense totaled $420.4 million in 2011, and increased $37.9 million, or 10%, compared to 2010. In 2010, non-interest expense
totaled $382.5 million, and increased $38.4 million, or 11%, compared to 2009.  The following table presents non-interest
expense by category for 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
































 
  
Years ended December 31,
 
  
2011 compared to 2010
 
 
2010 compared to 2009
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Salaries and employee benefits:
  



  



  



  



 



 



 




 Salaries
  
$
138,452
  
  
 
120,210
  
  
 
108,847
  
  
$
18,242
  
 
 
15
% 
 
$
11,363
  
 
 
10
%   

 Commissions and bonus
  
 
55,721
  
  
 
58,107
  
  
 
45,503
  
  
 
(2,386
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
12,604
  
 
 
28
  

 Benefits
  
 
43,612
  
  
 
37,449
  
  
 
32,528
  
  
 
6,163
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
4,921
  
 
 
15
  

 Total salaries and employee benefits
  
 
237,785
  
  
 
215,766
  
  
 
186,878
  
  
 
22,019
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
28,888
  
 
 
15
  

 Equipment
  
 
18,267
  
  
 
16,529
  
  
 
16,119
  
  
 
1,738
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
410
  
 
 
3
  

 Occupancy, net
  
 
28,764
  
  
 
24,444
  
  
 
23,806
  
  
 
4,320
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
3
  

 Data processing
  
 
14,568
  
  
 
15,355
  
  
 
12,982
  
  
 
(787
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
2,373
  
 
 
18
  

 Advertising and marketing
  
 
8,380
  
  
 
6,315
  
  
 
5,369
  
  
 
2,065
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
946
  
 
 
18
  

 Professional fees
  
 
16,874
  
  
 
16,394
  
  
 
13,399
  
  
 
480
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
2,995
  
 
 
22
  

 Amortization of other intangible assets
  
 
3,425
  
  
 
2,739
  
  
 
2,784
  
  
 
686
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
(45
) 
 
 
(2
)   

 FDIC insurance
  
 
14,143
  
  
 
18,028
  
  
 
21,199
  
  
 
(3,885
) 
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
(3,171
) 
 
 
(15
)   

 OREO expenses, net
  
 
26,340
  
  
 
19,331
  
  
 
18,963
  
  
 
7,009
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
368
  
 
 
2
  

 Other:
  



  



  



  



 



 



 




 Commissions — 3rd party brokers
  
 
3,829
  
  
 
4,003
  
  
 
3,095
  
  
 
(174
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
908
  
 
 
29
  

 Postage
  
 
4,672
  
  
 
4,813
  
  
 
4,833
  
  
 
(141
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
—
  

 Stationery and supplies
  
 
3,818
  
  
 
3,374
  
  
 
3,189
  
  
 
444
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
6
  

 Miscellaneous
  
 
39,539
  
  
 
35,434
  
  
 
31,471
  
  
 
4,105
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
3,963
  
 
 
13
  

 Total other
  
 
51,858
  
  
 
47,624
  
  
 
42,588
  
  
 
4,234
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
5,036
  
 
 
12
  

 Total Non-Interest Expense
  
$
420,404
  
  
 
382,525
  
  
 
344,087
  
  
$
37,879
  
 
 
10
% 
 
$
38,438
  
 
 
11
%   
 Salaries and employee benefits is the largest component of non-interest expense, accounting for 57% of
the total in 2011, 56% of the total in 2010 and 54% of the total in 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2011, salaries and employee benefits totaled $237.8 million and increased $22.0 million, or 10%, compared to 2010. This increase can be
attributed to an $18.2 million increase in salaries resulting from additional employees from acquisitions and larger staffing as the company grows and a $6.2 million increase in employee benefits (primarily health plan and payroll taxes related),
partially offset by a $2.4 million decrease in bonus expense and commissions attributable to variable pay based revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2010, salaries and employee benefits totaled $215.8 million and increased $28.9 million, or
15%, compared to 2009. This increase can be attributed to a $12.6 million increase in bonus expense and commissions as variable pay based revenue increased (primarily wealth management revenue and mortgage banking revenue), an $11.4 million increase
in salaries resulting from additional employees from the three FDIC-assisted transactions in 2010 and larger staffing as the company grows, and a $4.9 million increase in employee benefits (primarily health plan and payroll taxes related).
 Equipment expense, which includes furniture, equipment and computer software, depreciation and repairs and maintenance costs,
totaled $18.3 million in 2011, $16.5 million in 2010 and $16.1 million in 2009, reflecting an increase of 11% in 2011 and an increase of 3% in 2010. The increase in 2011 is primarily a result of increased equipment depreciation expense. 
  52 


Occupancy expense for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $28.8 million, $24.4 million and
$23.8 million, respectively, reflecting increases of 18% in 2011 and 3% in 2010. Occupancy expense includes depreciation on premises, real estate taxes, utilities and maintenance of premises, as well as net rent expense for leased premises. The
increase in 2011 is primarily the result of rent expense on additional leased premises and depreciation on owned locations which were obtained in the Company’s acquisitions. 
Data processing expenses totaled $14.6 million in 2011, $15.4 million in 2010 and $13.0 million in 2009, representing a decrease of 5% in
2011 and an increase of 18% in 2010. Data processing expenses have been elevated in 2011 and 2010 primarily due to the overall growth of loan and deposit accounts as well as additional expenses incurred for bank acquisition transactions in 2011 and
2010. The decrease in data processing expenses in 2011 compared to 2010 is primarily a result of more favorable terms from third-party providers.  Advertising and marketing expenses totaled $8.4 million for 2011, $6.3 million for 2010 and $5.4 million for 2009. Marketing costs are necessary to promote the Company’s commercial banking
capabilities, the Company’s MaxSafe® suite of products, to announce new branch openings as well as the
expansion of the wealth management business, to continue to promote community-based products and to attract loans and deposits. The level of marketing expenditures depends on the type of marketing programs utilized which are determined based on the
market area, targeted audience, competition and various other factors. Management continues to utilize mass market media promotions as well as targeted marketing programs in certain market areas. In 2011, advertising and marketing costs increased as
a result of rebranding initiatives to increase Wintrust name recognition.  Professional fees include legal, audit and tax
fees, external loan review costs and normal regulatory exam assessments. These fees totaled $16.9 million in 2011, $16.4 million in 2010 and $13.4 million in 2009. The increases in 2011 and 2010 are primarily related to increased legal costs related
to non-performing assets and acquisition related activities.  Amortization of other intangibles assets relates to the
amortization of core deposit premiums and customer list intangibles established in connection with certain business combinations. See Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these intangible assets. 
FDIC insurance expense totaled $14.1 million in 2011, $18.0 million in 2010 and $21.2 million in 2009. Effective April 1, 2011,
standards applied in FDIC assessments set forth in the FDIA were revised by the Dodd-Frank Act. These revisions modified definitions of a company’s insurance assessment base and assessment rates which led to the Company’s decreased FDIC
insurance expense in 2011 compared to 2010. The decrease in FDIC insurance expense for 2010 compared to 2009 was a result of an industry-wide special assessment imposed on financial institutions by the FDIC in the second quarter of 2009.
Additionally, on December 30, 2009, FDIC insured institutions were required to prepay 13 quarters of estimated deposit insurance premiums. The Company recorded the prepaid deposit insurance premiums as an asset and is expensing them over the
three year assessment period.  OREO expenses include all costs associated with obtaining, maintaining and selling other real
estate owned properties as well as valuation adjustments. This expense was $26.3 million in 2011, $19.3 million in 2010, and $19.0 million in 2009. While relatively unchanged in 2010 compared to 2009, OREO expenses increased in 2011 primarily
related to higher valuation adjustments of properties held in OREO in 2011 as real estate values continued to show stress and generally declined during the year.  Commissions paid to third party brokers primarily represent the commissions paid on revenue generated by WHI through its network of unaffiliated banks. 
Miscellaneous non-interest expense includes ATM expenses, correspondent banking charges, directors’ fees, telephone, travel and
entertainment, corporate insurance, dues and subscriptions and lending origination costs that are not deferred. This category increased $4.1 million, or 12%, in 2011 and increased $4.0 million, or 13%, in 2010. The increase in 2011 compared to 2010
is mainly attributable to expenses related to covered assets.  Income Taxes 
The Company recorded income tax expense of $50.5 million in 2011, $37.5 million in 2010 and $44.4 million in 2009. The effective tax
rates were 39.4%, 37.2% and 37.8% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The higher effective tax rate in 2011 compared to 2009 and 2010 is primarily attributable to increases in state income taxes, including the impact of a 2.2% increase in the
Illinois corporate tax rate in 2011. Please refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion and analysis of the Company’s tax position, including a reconciliation of the tax expense computed at the statutory tax
rate to the Company’s actual tax expense.  Operating Segment Results 
As described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company’s operations consist of three primary segments:
community banking, specialty finance and wealth management. The Company’s profitability is primarily dependent on the net interest income, provision for credit losses, non-interest income and operating expenses of its community banking segment.
The net interest income of the community banking segment includes interest income and related interest costs from portfolio loans that 
  53 



were purchased from the specialty finance segment. For purposes of internal segment profitability analysis, management reviews the results of its specialty finance segment as if all loans
originated and sold to the community banking segment were retained within that segment’s operations. Similarly, for purposes of analyzing the contribution from the wealth management segment, management allocates a portion of the net interest
income earned by the community banking segment on deposit balances of customers of the wealth management segment to the wealth management segment. (See “wealth management deposits” discussion in the Deposits and Other Funding Sources
section of this report for more information on these deposits.)  The community banking segment’s net interest income for
the year ended December 31, 2011 totaled $428.1 million as compared to $386.6 million for the same period in 2010, an increase of $41.5 million, or 11%, whereas the segment’s net interest income in 2010 compared to 2009 increased $86.0
million or 29%. The increases in 2011 compared to 2010 as well as 2010 compared to 2009 were primarily attributable to earning assets acquired in FDIC-assisted bank acquisitions in each period and the ability to gather interest-bearing deposits at
more reasonable rates. Provision for credit losses decreased to $102.5 million in 2011 compared to $105.0 million in 2010 and $165.3 million in 2009. Provision for credit losses decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 because of improved credit quality
ratios, including reduced levels of non-performing loans, in 2011. Non-interest income for the community banking segment increased $7.3 million, or 5% in 2011 when compared to the 2010 total of $133.1 million. This increase was primarily
attributable to an increase in fees from covered call options offset by lower bargain purchase gains. The community banking segment’s non-interest income totaled $133.1 million in 2010, an increase of $40.5 million, or 44%, when compared
to the 2009 total of $92.6 million. This increase was primarily attributable to bargain purchase gains from the three FDIC-assisted acquisitions in 2010. The community banking segment’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2011
totaled $83.6 million, an increase of $12.1 million, compared to net income of $71.4 million in 2010. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $71.4 million was an increase of $97.3 million in net income as compared to a net loss in
2009 of $25.9 million.  The specialty finance segment’s net interest income totaled $112.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011, an increase of $22.6 million, or 25%, over the $89.9 million in 2010. The specialty finance segment’s net interest income totaled $89.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $20.0 million, or
29%, over the $69.9 million in 2009. The specialty finance segment’s non-interest income totaled $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and decreased $10.5 million from the $13.6 million in 2010. The decrease in non-interest
income in 2011 is primarily a result of bargain purchase gain recognized in 2010. See Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the bargain purchase. For 2011, our commercial premium finance operations, life insurance
premium finance operations and accounts receivable finance operations accounted for 56%, 37% and 7%, respectively, of the total revenues of our specialty finance business. Net income of the specialty finance segment totaled $46.4 million, $32.5
million and $120.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in net income in 2011 compared to 2010 resulted primarily from increased interest income as well as decreased provision expense in 2011.
The decrease in net income in 2010 compared to 2009 is a result of the life insurance premium finance receivable bargain purchase gain in 2009 and, in the second quarter of 2010, fraud perpetrated against a number of premium finance companies in the
industry, including the property and casualty division of our premium financing subsidiary, which increased the provision for credit losses by $15.7 million.  The wealth management segment reported net interest income of $8.5 for 2011 compared to $12.3 million for 2010 and 2009. Net interest income is comprised of the net interest earned on brokerage customer
receivables at WHI and an allocation of a portion of the net interest income earned by the community banking segment on non-interest bearing and interest-bearing wealth management customer account balances on deposit at the banks. The allocated net
interest income included in this segment’s profitability was $7.8 million ($4.8 million after tax) in 2011 and $11.8 million ($7.3 million after tax) in 2010 and 2009 respectively. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the contribution
attributable to the wealth management deposits was redefined to measure the value as an alternative source of funding for each bank. In previous periods, the contribution from these deposits was measured as the full net interest income contribution.
The redefined measure better reflects the value of these deposits to the Company. Wealth management customer account balances on deposit at the banks averaged $635.5 million, $617.4 million and $634.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
This segment recorded non-interest income of $54.9 million for 2011 as compared to $45.4 million for 2010 and $38.3 million for 2009. This increase is primarily due to an increased in customer base as a result of the Great Lakes Advisors
acquisition. Distribution of wealth management services through each bank continues to be a focus of the Company as the number of brokers in its banks continues to increase. Wintrust is committed to growing the wealth management segment in order to
better service its customers and create a more diversified revenue stream. This segment reported net income of $7.1 million for 2011 compared to $6.9 million for 2010 and $5.6 million for 2009. 
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION  Total assets were $15.9 billion at December 31, 2011, representing an increase of $1.9 billion, or 14%, when compared to December 31, 2010. Total funding, which includes deposits, all notes and
advances, including secured borrowings and the junior subordinated debentures, was $14.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and $12.4 billion at December 31, 2010. See Notes 3, 4, and 11 through 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional period-end detail on the Company’s interest-earning assets and funding liabilities. 
  54 


Interest-Earning Assets  The following table sets forth, by category, the composition of average earning assets and the relative percentage of each category to total average earning assets for the periods presented: 
 




























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Balance
 
  
Percent
 
 
Balance
 
  
Percent
 
 
Balance
 
  
Percent
 

 Loans:
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Commercial
  
$
2,130,706
  
  
 
16
% 
 
$
1,828,897
  
  
 
15
% 
 
$
1,584,868
  
  
 
15
% 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
3,403,865
  
  
 
25
  
 
 
3,332,850
  
  
 
27
  
 
 
3,405,136
  
  
 
33
  

 Home equity
  
 
885,111
  
  
 
7
  
 
 
922,907
  
  
 
7
  
 
 
919,233
  
  
 
9
  

 Residential real estate (1)
  
 
518,643
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
587,629
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
503,910
  
  
 
5
  

 Premium finance receivables
  
 
3,035,213
  
  
 
22
  
 
 
2,622,935
  
  
 
21
  
 
 
1,653,786
  
  
 
16
  

 Indirect consumer loans
  
 
57,913
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
70,295
  
  
 
1
  
 
 
134,757
  
  
 
1
  

 Other loans
  
 
114,011
  
  
 
1
  
 
 
108,076
  
  
 
1
  
 
 
133,731
  
  
 
1
  

 Total loans, net of
  



  



 



  



 



  




 unearned income (2)
  



  



 



  



 



  




 excluding covered
  



  



 



  



 



  




 loans
  
$
10,145,462
  
  
 
75
% 
 
$
9,473,589
  
  
 
77
% 
 
$
8,335,421
  
  
 
80
% 

 Covered loans
  
 
520,550
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
232,206
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Total average loans (2)
  
$
10,666,012
  
  
 
79
% 
 
$
9,705,795
  
  
 
79
% 
 
$
8,335,421
  
  
 
80
% 

 Liquidity management assets (3)
  
$
2,840,157
  
  
 
21
  
 
 
2,654,013
  
  
 
21
  
 
 
2,086,653
  
  
 
20
  

 Other earning assets (4)
  
 
28,570
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
45,021
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
23,979
  
  
 
—
  

 Total average earning assets
  
$
13,534,739
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
12,404,829
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
10,446,053
  
  
 
100
% 

 Total average assets
  
$
14,920,160
  
  
 
 
 
 
$
13,556,612
  
  
 
 
 
 
$
11,415,322
  
  
 
 
 

 Total average earning assets to total average assets
  
 
 
 
  
 
91
% 
 
 
 
 
  
 
92
% 
 
 
 
 
  
 
92
% 
  


(1)
 Includes mortgage loans held-for-sale   


(2)
 Includes loans held-for-sale and non-accrual loans 
 


(3)
 Liquidity management assets include available-for-sale securities, Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank stock, interest earning
deposits with banks, federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements   


(4)
 Other earning assets include brokerage customer receivables and trading account securities 
Total average earning assets increased $1.1 billion, or 9%, in 2011 and $2.0 billion, or 19%, in 2010. Average earning assets comprised
91% of average total assets in 2011 and 92% of average total assets in 2010 and 2009.  Loans. Average total loans, net
of unearned income, totaled $10.7 billion and increased $960.2 million, or 10%, in 2011 and $9.7 billion, or 16%, in 2010. Average commercial loans totaled $2.1 billion in 2011, and increased $301.8 million, or 17%, over the average balance in 2010,
while average commercial real estate loans totaled $3.4 billion in 2011, increasing $71.0 million, or 2%, since 2010. From 2009 to 2010, average commercial loans increased $244.0 million, or 15%, while average commercial real estate loans decreased
slightly by $72.3 million, or 2%. The growth realized in these categories for 2011 and 2010 is primarily attributable to increased business development efforts. Combined, these categories comprised 41% of the average loan portfolio in 2011 and 42%
in 2010. Approximately $288.3 million of the average loan increase in 2010 as compared to 2009 relates to the covered loans portfolio, which relates to the various FDIC-assisted acquisitions in 2010 and 2011. 
Home equity loans averaged $885.1 million in 2011, and decreased $37.8 million, or 4%, when compared to the average balance in 2010. Home
equity loans averaged $922.9 million in 2010, and increased $3.7 million, or 0.4%, when compared to the average balance in 2009. Unused commitments on home equity lines of credit totaled $762.2 million at December 31, 2011 and $829.9 million at
December 31, 2010. As a result of economic conditions, the Company has been actively managing its home equity portfolio to ensure that diligent pricing, appraisal and other underwriting activities continue to exist. The Company has not
sacrificed asset quality or pricing standards when originating new home equity loans.  Residential real estate loans averaged
$518.6 million in 2011, and decreased $69.0 million, or 12%, from the average balance in 2010. Mortgage interest rates, on average, have been higher in 2011 as compared to 2010, which has resulted in lower origination volumes in 2011. In 2010,
residential real estate loans averaged $587.6 million, and increased $83.7 million, or 17%, from the average balance in 2009. This category includes mortgage loans held-for-sale. By selling residential mortgage loans into the secondary market, the
Company eliminates the interest-rate risk associated with these loans, as they are predominantly long-term fixed rate loans, and provides a source of non-interest revenue.  Average premium finance receivables totaled $3.0 billion in 2011, and accounted for 27% of the Company’s average total loans. Premium finance receivables consist of a commercial portfolio and a life
portfolio, comprising 47% and 53%, respectively, of the average total balance for 2011 compared to 49% and 51%, respectively, for 2010. In 2011, average premium finance receivables 
  55 



increased $412.3 million, or 16%, compared to 2010. The increase during 2011 compared to 2010 was the result of continued originations within the portfolio due to the effective marketing and
customer servicing. Approximately $4.0 billion of premium finance receivables were originated in 2011 compared to approximately $3.7 billion in 2010. In 2010, average premium finance receivables increased $969.1 million, or 59%, from the average
balance of $1.7 billion in 2009. The increase in the average balance of premium finance receivables in 2010 is a result of recording the securitization receivables on the statement of condition effective January 1, 2010 and significant
originations within the portfolio during the period. Historically, the majority of premium finance receivables, commercial and life insurance, were purchased by the banks in order to more fully utilize their lending capacity as these loans generally
provide the banks with higher yields than alternative investments. FIFC originations of commercial premium finance receivables that were not purchased by the banks were typically sold to unrelated third parties with servicing retained. During the
third quarter of 2009, FIFC initially sold $695 million in commercial premium finance receivables to our indirect subsidiary, FIFC Premium Funding I, LLC, which in turn sold $600 million in aggregate principal amount of notes backed by such
commercial premium finance receivables in a securitization transaction sponsored by FIFC. Under the terms of the securitization, FIFC had the right, but not the obligation, to securitize additional receivables in the future and is responsible for
the servicing, administration and collection of securitized receivables and related security in accordance with FIFC’s credit and collection policy. Principal collections on loans in the securitization entity were initially used to subsequently
acquire and transfer additional loans into the securitization entity during the stated revolving period. As of December 31, 2011, the stated revolving period has ended and the majority of collections are now being accumulated to payoff the
issued instruments as scheduled. FIFC’s obligations under the securitization are subject to customary covenants, including the obligation to file and amend financing statements; the obligation to pay costs and expenses; the obligation to
indemnify other parties for its breach or failure to perform; the obligation to defend the right, title and interest of the transferee of the conveyed receivables against third party claims; the obligation to repurchase the securitized receivables
if certain representations fail to be true and correct and receivables are materially and adversely affected thereby; the obligation to maintain its corporate existence and licenses to operate; and the obligation to qualify the securitized notes
under the securities laws. In the event of a default by FIFC under certain of these obligations, the ability to add loans to securitization facility could terminate.  Indirect consumer loans are comprised primarily of automobile loans originated at Hinsdale Bank. These loans are financed from networks of unaffiliated automobile dealers located throughout the Chicago
metropolitan area with which the Company had established relationships. The risks associated with the Company’s portfolios are diversified among many individual borrowers. Like other consumer loans, the indirect consumer loans are subject to
the Banks’ established credit standards. Management regards substantially all of these loans as prime quality loans. In the third quarter of 2008, as a result of competitive pricing pressures, the Company ceased the origination of indirect
automobile loans through Hinsdale Bank. However, as a result of favorable pricing opportunities coupled with reduced competition in the indirect consumer automobile lending business, the Company re-entered this business with originations through
Hinsdale Bank in the fourth quarter of 2010. During 2011, 2010 and 2009 average indirect consumer loans totaled $57.9 million, $70.3 million and $134.8 million, respectively.  Other loans represent a wide variety of personal and consumer loans to individuals as well as high-yielding short-term accounts receivable financing to clients in the temporary staffing industry located
throughout the United States. Consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans but generally involve more credit risk due to the type and nature of the collateral. Additionally, short-term accounts receivable
financing may also involve greater credit risks than generally associated with the loan portfolios of more traditional community banks depending on the marketability of the collateral. 
Covered loans represent loans acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions. These loans are subject to loss sharing agreements with the FDIC.
The FDIC has agreed to reimburse the Company for 80% of losses incurred on the purchased loans, other real estate owned, and certain other assets. See Note 8 — Business Combinations for a discussion of these acquisitions. 
Liquidity Management Assets. Funds that are not utilized for loan originations are used to purchase investment securities and
short- term money market investments, to sell as federal funds and to maintain in interest-bearing deposits with banks. The balances of these assets fluctuate frequently based on deposit inflows, the level of other funding sources and loan demand.
Average liquidity management assets accounted for 21% of total average earning assets in 2011 and 2010 and 20% in 2009. Average liquidity management assets increased $186.1 million in 2011 compared to 2010, and increased $567.4 million in 2010
compared to 2009. The balances of liquidity management assets can fluctuate based on management’s ongoing effort to manage liquidity and for asset liability management purposes. 
Other earning assets. Other earning assets include brokerage customer receivables and trading account securities. In the normal
course of business, WHI activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various securities transactions. WHI’s customer securities activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. In margin transactions, WHI, under an
agreement with the out- sourced securities firm, extends credit to its customers, subject to various regulatory and internal margin requirements, collateralized by cash and securities in customer’s accounts. In connection with these activities,
WHI executes and the out-sourced firm clears customer transactions relating to the sale of securities not yet purchased, substantially all of which are transacted on a margin basis subject to individual exchange regulations. Such transactions may
expose WHI to off-balance-sheet risk, particularly in volatile trading markets, in the event margin requirements are not sufficient to fully cover losses that customers may incur. In the event a customer fails to satisfy its obligations, WHI under
an agreement with the out-sourced securities firm, may be required to purchase or sell financial instruments at prevailing market prices to fulfill the customer’s obligations. WHI seeks to control the risks associated with its customers’
activities by requiring customers to maintain margin collateral in compliance with various regulatory and internal 
  56 


guidelines. WHI monitors required margin levels daily and, pursuant to such guidelines,
requires customers to deposit additional collateral or to reduce positions when necessary.  Deposits and Other Funding Sources
 Total deposits at December 31, 2011, were $12.3 billion, increasing $1.5 billion, or 14%, compared to the $10.8
billion at December 31, 2010. Average deposit balances in 2011 were $11.5 billion, reflecting an increase of $1.1 billion, or 11%, compared to the average balances in 2010. During 2010, average deposits increased $1.2 billion, or 13%, compared to
the prior year.  The increase in year end and average deposits in 2011 over 2010 reflects the Company’s efforts to
increase its deposit base. During 2011, a majority of the increase can be attributed to the Company’s acquisitions including approximately $667.8 million of deposits in the First Chicago acquisition, $241.1 million of deposits in the Elgin
acquisition, $164.7 million of deposits in the TBOC acquisition and $48.7 million in deposits in the CFBC acquisition. Average wealth management deposits decreased in 2011 and 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of fewer deposits of brokerage
customers from unaffiliated companies.  The following table presents the composition of average deposits by product category
for each of the last three years:   




























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Balance
 
  
Percent
 
 
Balance
 
  
Percent
 
 
Balance
 
  
Percent
 

 Non-interest bearing deposits
  
$
1,481,594
  
  
 
13
% 
 
$
984,416
  
  
 
9
% 
 
$
788,034
  
  
 
9
%   

 NOW accounts
  
 
1,568,151
  
  
 
14
  
 
 
1,508,063
  
  
 
15
  
 
 
1,136,008
  
  
 
12
  

 Wealth management deposits
  
 
705,736
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
734,837
  
  
 
7
  
 
 
907,013
  
  
 
10
  

 Money market accounts
  
 
1,985,881
  
  
 
17
  
 
 
1,666,554
  
  
 
16
  
 
 
1,375,767
  
  
 
15
  

 Savings accounts
  
 
795,828
  
  
 
7
  
 
 
619,024
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
457,139
  
  
 
5
  

 Time certificates of deposit
  
 
4,956,926
  
  
 
43
  
 
 
4,881,472
  
  
 
47
  
 
 
4,543,154
  
  
 
49
  

 Total average deposits
  
$
11,494,116
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
10,394,366
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
9,207,115
  
  
 
100
%   
 Wealth management deposits are funds from the brokerage customers of WHI, the trust and asset management
customers of CTC and brokerage customers from unaffiliated companies which have been placed into deposit accounts of the banks (“wealth management deposits” in table above). Wealth management deposits consist primarily of money market
accounts. Consistent with reasonable interest rate risk parameters, the funds have generally been invested in loan production of the banks as well as other investments suitable for banks. 
The following table presents average deposit balances for each Bank and the relative percentage of total consolidated average deposits
held by each Bank during each of the past three years:   




























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Balance
 
  
Percent
 
 
Balance
 
  
Percent
 
 
Balance
 
  
Percent
 

 Lake Forest Bank
  
$
1,411,410
  
  
 
12
% 
 
$
1,411,511
  
  
 
14
% 
 
$
1,146,196
  
  
 
12
%   

 Northbrook Bank
  
 
1,340,877
  
  
 
12
  
 
 
845,114
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
692,329
  
  
 
8
  

 North Shore Bank
  
 
1,307,488
  
  
 
11
  
 
 
1,136,925
  
  
 
11
  
 
 
980,079
  
  
 
11
  

 Hinsdale Bank
  
 
1,136,330
  
  
 
10
  
 
 
1,116,568
  
  
 
11
  
 
 
1,086,748
  
  
 
12
  

 Libertyville Bank
  
 
941,939
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
904,783
  
  
 
9
  
 
 
882,366
  
  
 
10
  

 Barrington Bank
  
 
928,459
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
886,261
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
776,009
  
  
 
8
  

 Village Bank
  
 
644,556
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
634,211
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
592,043
  
  
 
6
  

 Town Bank
  
 
629,235
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
595,454
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
571,568
  
  
 
6
  

 Wheaton Bank
  
 
591,791
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
593,409
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
353,845
  
  
 
4
  

 State Bank of The Lakes
  
 
590,497
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
562,418
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
546,774
  
  
 
6
  

 Crystal Lake Bank
  
 
563,268
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
555,920
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
536,091
  
  
 
6
  

 Schaumburg Bank
  
 
469,167
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
370,890
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
353,938
  
  
 
4
  

 Beverly Bank
  
 
337,484
  
  
 
3
  
 
 
297,878
  
  
 
3
  
 
 
246,474
  
  
 
3
  

 St. Charles Bank
  
 
322,216
  
  
 
3
  
 
 
225,688
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
194,534
  
  
 
1
  

 Old Plank Trail Bank
  
 
279,399
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
257,336
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
248,121
  
  
 
3
  

 Total deposits
  
 
11,494,116
  
  
 
100
  
 
$
10,394,366
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
9,207,115
  
  
 
100
%   

 Percentage increase from prior year
  
 
 
 
  
 
11
% 
 
 
 
 
  
 
13
% 
 
 
 
 
  
 
20
%   
 Other Funding Sources. Although deposits are the Company’s primary source of funding its
interest-earning assets, the Company’s ability to manage the types and terms of deposits is somewhat limited by customer preferences and market competition. As a result, in addition to deposits and the issuance of equity securities, as well as
the retention of earnings, the Company uses several other funding sources to support its growth. These other sources include short-term borrowings, notes payable, FHLB advances, subordinated debt, secured borrowings and junior subordinated
debentures. The Company evaluates the terms and unique characteristics of each source, as well as its asset-liability management position, in determining the use of such funding sources. 
  57 


The composition of average other funding sources in 2011, 2010 and 2009 is presented in the following table:
  




























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Average
 
  
Percent
 
 
Average
 
  
Percent
 
 
Average
 
  
Percent
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Balance
 
  
of Total
 
 
Balance
 
  
of Total
 
 
Balance
 
  
of Total
 

 Notes payable
  
$
2,489
  
  
 
—
% 
 
$
1,000
  
  
 
—
% 
 
$
1,000
  
  
 
—
% 

 Federal Home Loan Bank advances
  
 
449,874
  
  
 
26
  
 
 
418,981
  
  
 
27
  
 
 
434,520
  
  
 
43
  

 Secured borrowings—owed to securitization investors
  
 
600,000
  
  
 
35
  
 
 
600,000
  
  
 
39
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Subordinated notes
  
 
43,411
  
  
 
3
  
 
 
56,370
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
66,205
  
  
 
7
  

 Short-term borrowings
  
 
343,785
  
  
 
20
  
 
 
226,028
  
  
 
14
  
 
 
255,504
  
  
 
25
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
  
 
249,493
  
  
 
14
  
 
 
249,493
  
  
 
16
  
 
 
249,497
  
  
 
25
  

 Other
  
 
37,982
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
2,541
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,818
  
  
 
—
  

 Total other funding sources
  
$
1,727,034
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
1,554,413
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
1,008,544
  
  
 
100
% 
 Notes payable balances represent the balances on a credit agreement with unaffiliated banks and an
unsecured promissory note as a result of the Great Lakes Advisors acquisition. The credit agreement is a $76 million credit facility available for corporate purposes such as to provide capital to fund continued growth at existing bank subsidiaries,
possible future acquisitions and for other general corporate matters. At December 31, 2011 the Company had $52.8 million of notes payable outstanding as compared to $1.0 million outstanding at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  FHLB advances provide the banks with access to fixed rate funds
which are useful in mitigating interest rate risk and achieving an acceptable interest rate spread on fixed rate loans or securities. FHLB advances to the banks totaled $474.5 million at December 31, 
2011 and $423.5 million at December 31, 2010. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the
terms of these advances.  The Company borrowed $75.0 million under three separate $25.0 million subordinated note agreements.
Each subordinated note requires annual principal payments of $5.0 million beginning in the sixth year of the note and has terms of ten years with final maturity dates in 2012, 2013 and 2015. Subject to certain limitations, these notes qualify as
Tier 2 regulatory capital. Subordinated notes totaled $35.0 million and $50.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the terms of the notes.
 Beginning in 2010, the Company accounted for its third quarter 2009 securitization transaction as a secured borrowing.
Secured borrowings totaled $600.0 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  Other borrowings include securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and debt issued by the Company in conjunction with its tangible equity unit offering in December 2010. These
borrowings totaled $443.8 million and $260.6 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Securities sold under repurchase agreements represent sweep accounts for certain customers in connection with master repurchase agreements at the
banks as well as short-term borrowings from banks and brokers. This funding category fluctuates based on customer preferences and daily liquidity needs of the banks, their customers and the banks’ operating subsidiaries. See Note 15 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these borrowings.  The Company has $249.5 million of junior
subordinated debentures outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The amounts reflected on the balance sheet represent the junior subordinated debentures issued to nine trusts by the Company and equal the amount of the preferred and common
securities issued by the trusts. See Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures. Junior subordinated debentures, subject to certain limitations, currently qualify as
Tier 1 regulatory capital. Interest expense on these debentures is deductible for tax purposes, resulting in a cost-efficient form of regulatory capital.  Debt issued by the Company in conjunction with its tangible equity unit offering in December 2010 is recorded within other borrowings. The total proceeds attributed to the debt component of the offering,
net of issuance costs, was $43.3 million. See Note  24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these
units.  Shareholders’ Equity. Total shareholders’ equity was $1.5 billion at December 31, 2011, an
increase of $107 million from the December 31, 2010 total of $1.4 billion. The increase in 2011 was a primarily a result of net income of $77.6 million in 2011 less preferred and common stock dividends of $10.3 million, $5.6 million credited to
surplus for stock-based compensation costs, $31.5 million from the issuance of shares of the Company’s common stock related to acquisitions and pursuant to various stock compensation plans and $2.6 million in higher net unrealized gains from
available-for-sale securities and net unrealized gains from cash flow hedges, net of tax.  Changes in shareholders’
equity from 2009 to 2010 was primarily the result of $494.4 million from the issuance of common stock and tangible equity units in March and December of 2010, net income of $63.3 million less preferred and common stock dividends of $21.2 million,
offset by a reduction in preferred stock of $250.0 million. 
  58 


LOAN PORTFOLIO AND ASSET QUALITY  Loan Portfolio  The following table shows the Company’s loan
portfolio by category as of December 31 for each of the five previous fiscal years:   












































 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 


  
  
  
 

 
  
 
 
  
% of
 
  
 
 
  
% of
 
  
 
 
  
% of
 
  
 
 
  
% of
 
  
 
 
  
% of
 

 (Dollars in thousands)
  
Amount
 
  
Total
 
  
Amount
 
  
Total
 
  
Amount
 
  
Total
 
  
Amount
 
  
Total
 
  
Amount
 
  
Total
 


  
  
  
 

 Commercial
  
$
2,498,313
  
  
 
22%
  
  
$
2,049,326
  
  
 
21%
  
  
$
1,743,209
  
  
 
21%
  
  
$
1,423,583
  
  
 
19%
  
  
$
1,321,960
  
  
 
20%
  

 Commercial real-estate
  
 
3,514,261
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
3,338,007
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
3,296,697
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
3,355,081
  
  
 
44
  
  
 
3,086,701
  
  
 
45    
  

 Home equity
  
 
862,345
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
914,412
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
930,482
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
896,438
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
678,298
  
  
 
10    
  

 Residential real-estate
  
 
350,289
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
353,336
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
306,296
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
262,908
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
226,686
  
  
 
3    
  

 Premium finance receivables—commercial
  
 
1,412,454
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
1,265,500
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
730,144
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
1,243,858
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
1,069,781
  
  
 
16    
  

 Premium finance receivables—life insurance
  
 
1,695,225
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
1,521,886
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
1,197,893
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
102,728
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
8,404
  
  
 
—    
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
64,545
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
51,147
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
98,134
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
175,955
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
241,393
  
  
 
4    
  

 Other loans
  
 
123,945
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
106,272
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
108,916
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
160,518
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
168,379
  
  
 
2    
  


  
  
  
 

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
$
10,521,377
  
  
 
94%
  
  
$
9,599,886
  
  
 
97%
  
  
$
8,411,771
  
  
 
100%
  
  
$
7,621,069
  
  
 
100%
  
  
$
6,801,602
  
  
 
100%
  

 Covered loans
  
 
651,368
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
334,353
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—    
  


  
  
  
 

 Total loans
  
$
11,172,745
  
  
 
100%
  
  
$
9,934,239
  
  
 
100%
  
  
$
8,411,771
  
  
 
100%
  
  
$
7,621,069
  
  
 
100%
  
  
$
6,801,602
  
  
 
100%
  

  
 

  59 


Commercial and commercial real estate loans. The table below sets forth information
regarding the types, amounts and performance of our loans within these portfolios (excluding covered loans) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:   
























 As of December 31, 2011 (Dollars in thousands)
  
Balance
 
  
% ofTotal Balance
 
 
Non-accrual
 
  
> 90 DaysPast Due andStill Accruing
 
  
AllowanceFor Loan LossesAllocation
 

 Commercial: 
  



  



 



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
1,450,451
  
  
 
24.2 
% 
 
$
16,154
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
18,787
  

 Franchise
  
 
142,775
  
  
 
2.4
  
 
 
1,792
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,571
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
180,450
  
  
 
3.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,409
  

 Community Advantage — homeowner associations
  
 
77,504
  
  
 
1.3
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
194
  

 Aircraft
  
 
20,397
  
  
 
0.3
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
110
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
465,737
  
  
 
7.7
  
 
 
1,072
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7,705
  

 Municipal
  
 
78,319
  
  
 
1.3
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,136
  

 Leases
  
 
72,134
  
  
 
1.2
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
309
  

 Other
  
 
2,125
  
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
16
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial loans (1)
  
 
8,421
  
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
589
  
  
 
—  
  

 Total commercial
  
$
2,498,313
  
  
 
41.6 
% 
 
$
19,018
  
  
$
589
  
  
$
31,237
  

 Commercial Real-Estate: 
  



  



 



  



  




 Residential construction
  
$
65,811
  
  
 
1.1 
% 
 
$
1,993
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,804
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
169,876
  
  
 
2.8
  
 
 
2,158
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,512
  

 Land
  
 
178,531
  
  
 
3.0
  
 
 
31,547
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
12,515
  

 Office
  
 
554,446
  
  
 
9.2
  
 
 
10,614
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6,929
  

 Industrial
  
 
555,802
  
  
 
9.2
  
 
 
2,002
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5,314
  

 Retail
  
 
536,729
  
  
 
8.9
  
 
 
5,366
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,569
  

 Multi-family
  
 
314,557
  
  
 
5.2
  
 
 
4,736
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,337
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
1,086,654
  
  
 
18.1
  
 
 
8,092
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
11,425
  

 Purchased non-covered commercialreal-estate (1)
  
 
51,855
  
  
 
0.9
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
2,198
  
  
 
—  
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
$
3,514,261
  
  
 
58.4 
% 
 
$
66,508
  
  
$
2,198
  
  
$
56,405
  

 Total commercial and commercial real-estate
  
$
6,012,574
  
  
 
100.0 
% 
 
$
85,526
  
  
$
2,787
  
  
$
87,642
  

 Commercial real-estate—collateral location by state:
  



  



 



  



  




 Illinois
  
$
2,913,288
  
  
 
82.9 
% 
 



  



  




 Wisconsin
  
 
335,070
  
  
 
9.5
  
 



  



  




 Total primary markets
  
$
3,248,358
  
  
 
92.4 
% 
 



  



  




 Florida
  
 
57,527
  
  
 
1.6
  
 



  



  




 Arizona
  
 
39,921
  
  
 
1.1
  
 



  



  




 Indiana
  
 
43,322
  
  
 
1.2
  
 



  



  




 Other (no individual state greater than 0.5%)
  
 
125,133
  
  
 
3.7
  
 



  



  




 Total
  
$
3,514,261
  
  
 
100.0 
% 
 



  



  











 As of December 31, 2010
(Dollars in thousands)
  
Balance
 
  
% ofTotal Balance
 
 
Nonaccrual
 
  
> 90 DaysPast Due andStill Accruing
 
  
AllowanceFor Loan LossesAllocation
 

 Commercial: 
  



  



 



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
1,310,753
  
  
 
24.3 
% 
 
$
15,922
  
  
$
478
  
  
$
22,208
  

 Franchise
  
 
119,488
  
  
 
2.2
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,153
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
131,306
  
  
 
2.4
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,177
  

 Community Advantage—homeowner associations
  
 
75,542
  
  
 
1.4
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
323
  

 Aircraft
  
 
24,618
  
  
 
0.5
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
315
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
288,979
  
  
 
5.4
  
 
 
417
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5,188
  

 Municipal
  
 
56,343
  
  
 
1.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
923
  

 Leases
  
 
41,541
  
  
 
0.8
  
 
 
43
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
483
  

 Other
  
 
756
  
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial loans (1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Total commercial
  
$
2,049,326
  
  
 
38.1 
% 
 
$
16,382
  
  
$
478
  
  
$
31,777
  

 Commercial Real-Estate: 
  



  



 



  



  




 Residential construction
  
$
95,947
  
  
 
1.8 
% 
 
$
10,010
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,597
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
131,672
  
  
 
2.4
  
 
 
1,820
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,035
  

 Land
  
 
260,189
  
  
 
4.8
  
 
 
37,602
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
14,261
  

 Office
  
 
535,331
  
  
 
9.9
  
 
 
12,718
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,005
  

 Industrial
  
 
500,301
  
  
 
9.3
  
 
 
3,480
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5,213
  

 Retail
  
 
510,527
  
  
 
9.5
  
 
 
3,265
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5,985
  

 Multi-family
  
 
290,954
  
  
 
5.4
  
 
 
4,794
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
5,479
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
1,013,086
  
  
 
18.8
  
 
 
20,274
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
17,043
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial real-estate (1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
$
3,338,007
  
  
 
61.9 
% 
 
$
93,963
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
62,618
  

 Total commercial and commercial real-estate
  
$
5,387,333
  
  
 
100.0 
% 
 
$
110,345
  
  
$
478
  
  
$
94,395
  

 Commercial real-estate—collateral location by state:
  



  



 



  



  




 Illinois
  
$
2,695,581
  
  
 
80.8 
% 
 



  



  




 Wisconsin
  
 
356,696
  
  
 
10.7
  
 



  



  




 Total primary markets
  
$
3,052,277
  
  
 
91.5 
% 
 



  



  




 Florida
  
 
52,457
  
  
 
1.6
  
 



  



  




 Arizona
  
 
42,100
  
  
 
1.3
  
 



  



  




 Indiana
  
 
47,828
  
  
 
1.4
  
 



  



  




 Other (no individual state greater than 0.5%)
  
 
143,345
  
  
 
4.2
  
 



  



  




 Total
  
$
3,338,007
  
  
 
100.0 
% 
 



  



  



  


(1)
 Purchased loans represent loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination, in accordance with ASC 310-30. Loan agings
are based upon contractually required payments. 
  60 


We make commercial loans for many purposes, including: working capital lines, which are
generally renewable annually and supported by business assets, personal guarantees and additional collateral; loans to condominium and homeowner associations originated through Barrington Bank’s Community Advantage program; small aircraft
financing, an earning asset niche developed at Crystal Lake Bank; and franchise lending at Lake Forest Bank. Commercial business lending is generally considered to involve a higher degree of risk than traditional consumer bank lending. Allowance for
loan losses in our commercial loan portfolio is $31.2 million as of December 31, 2011 compared to $31.8 million as of December 31, 2010.  Our commercial real estate loans are generally secured by a first mortgage lien and assignment of rents on the property. Since most of our bank branches are located in the Chicago metropolitan area and
southeastern Wisconsin, 92.4% of our commercial real estate loan portfolio is located in this region. Commercial real estate market conditions continued to be under stress in 2011, however we have been able to effectively manage and reduce our total
non-performing commercial real estate loans during 2011. As of December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses related to this portfolio is $56.4 million compared to $62.6 million as of December 31, 2010. 
The Company also participates in mortgage warehouse lending by providing interim funding to unaffiliated mortgage bankers to finance
residential mortgages originated by such bankers for sale into the secondary market. The Company’s loans to the mortgage bankers are secured by the business assets of the mortgage companies as well as the specific mortgage loans funded by the
Company, after they have been pre-approved for purchase by third party end lenders. End lender re-payments are sent directly to the Company upon end-lenders’ acceptance of final loan documentation. The Company may also provide interim financing
for packages of mortgage loans on a bulk basis in circumstances where the mortgage bankers desire to competitively bid on a number of mortgages for sale as a package in the secondary market. Typically, the Company will serve as sole funding source
for its mortgage warehouse lending customers under short-term revolving credit agreements. Amounts advanced with respect to any particular mortgage loan are usually required to be repaid within 21 days. Despite poor economic conditions generally,
and the particularly difficult conditions in the U.S. residential real estate market experienced since 2008, our mortgage warehouse lending business has expanded due to the high demand for mortgage re-financings given the historically low interest
rate environment at that time and the fact that many of our competitors exited the market in late 2008 and early 2009. The expansion of this business has caused our mortgage warehouse lines to increase to $180.5 million as of December 31, 2011
from $131.3 million as of December 31, 2010. Our allowance for loan losses with respect to these loans is $1.4 million as of December 31, 2011.  Home equity loans. Our home equity loans and lines of credit are originated by each of our banks in their local markets where we have a strong understanding of the underlying real estate value. Our
banks monitor and manage these loans, and we conduct an automated review of all home equity loans and lines of credit at least twice per year. This review collects current credit performance for each home equity borrower and identifies situations
where the credit strength of the borrower is declining, or where there are events that may influence repayment, such as tax liens or judgments. Our banks use this information to manage loans that may be higher risk and to determine whether to obtain
additional credit information or updated property valuations. As a result of this work and general market conditions, we have modified our home equity offerings and changed our policies regarding home equity renewals and requests for subordination.
In a limited number of situations, the unused availability on home equity lines of credit was frozen.  The rates we offer on
new home equity lending are based on several factors, including appraisals and valuation due diligence, in order to reflect inherent risk, and we place additional scrutiny on larger home equity requests. In a limited number of cases, we issue home
equity credit together with first mortgage financing, and requests for such financing are evaluated on a combined basis. It is not our practice to advance more than 85% of the appraised value of the underlying asset, which ratio we refer to as the
loan-to-value ratio, or LTV ratio, and a majority of the credit we previously extended, when issued, had an LTV ratio of less than 80%.  Our home equity loan portfolio has performed well in light of the deterioration in the overall residential real estate market. The number of new home equity line of credit commitments originated by us has
decreased due to declines in housing valuations that have decreased the amount of equity against which homeowners may borrow, and a decline in homeowners’ desire to use their remaining equity as collateral. 
Residential real estate mortgages. Our residential real estate portfolio predominantly includes one- to four-family adjustable
rate mortgages that have re-pricing terms generally from one to three years, construction loans to individuals and bridge financing loans for qualifying customers. As of December 31, 2011, our residential loan portfolio totaled $350.3 million,
or 3% of our total outstanding loans.  Our adjustable rate mortgages relate to properties located principally in our Market
Area or vacation homes owned by local residents, and may have terms based on differing indexes. These adjustable rate mortgages are often non-agency conforming because the outstanding balance of these loans exceeds the maximum balance that can be
sold into the secondary market. Adjustable rate mortgage loans decrease the interest rate risk we face on our mortgage portfolio. However, this risk is not eliminated because, among other things, such loans generally provide for periodic and
lifetime limits on the interest rate adjustments. Additionally, adjustable rate mortgages may pose a higher risk of delinquency and default because they require borrowers to make larger payments when interest rates rise. To date, we have not seen a
significant elevation in delinquencies and foreclosures in our residential loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, $6.6 million of our residential real estate mortgages, or 1.9% of our residential real estate loan portfolio, were classified as
nonaccrual, $5.5 million were 30 to 89 days past due (1.6%) and $338.2 million were current (96.5%). We believe that since our loan portfolio consists primarily of locally originated loans, and since the majority of our borrowers are
longer-term customers with lower LTV ratios, we face a relatively low risk of borrower default and delinquency. 
  61 


While we generally do not originate loans for our own portfolio with long-term fixed rates
due to interest rate risk considerations, we can accommodate customer requests for fixed rate loans by originating such loans and then selling them into the secondary market, for which we receive fee income, or by selectively retaining certain of
these loans within the banks’ own portfolios where they are non-agency conforming, or where the terms of the loans make them favorable to retain. A portion of the loans we sold into the secondary market were sold with the servicing of those
loans retained. The amount of loans serviced for others as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $958.7 million and $942.2 million, respectively. All other mortgage loans sold into the secondary market were sold without the retention of servicing
rights.  It is not our practice to underwrite, and we have no plans to underwrite, subprime, Alt A, no or little documentation
loans, or option ARM loans. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $19.6 million of our mortgages consist of interest-only loans.  Premium finance receivables — commercial. FIFC originated approximately $3.5 billion in commercial insurance premium finance receivables during 2011. FIFC makes loans to businesses to finance
the insurance premiums they pay on their commercial insurance policies. The loans are originated by FIFC working through independent medium and large insurance agents and brokers located throughout the United States. The insurance premiums financed
are primarily for commercial customers’ purchases of liability, property and casualty and other commercial insurance. 
This lending involves relatively rapid turnover of the loan portfolio and high volume of loan originations. Because of the indirect
nature of this lending and because the borrowers are located nationwide, this segment is more susceptible to third party fraud than relationship lending. In the second quarter of 2010, a fraud perpetrated against a number of premium finance
companies in the industry, including the property and casualty division of our premium financing subsidiary, increased both the Company’s net charge-offs and provision for credit losses by $15.7 million. In the second quarter of 2011, the
Company recovered $5.0 million from insurance coverage of the $15.7 million fraud loss recorded in the second quarter of 2010. Actions have been taken by the Company to decrease the likelihood of this type of loss from recurring in this line of
business for the Company by the enhancement of various control procedures to mitigate the risks associated with this lending. The Company has conducted a thorough review of the premium finance — commercial portfolio and found no signs of
similar situations.  The majority of these loans are purchased by the banks in order to more fully utilize their lending
capacity as these loans generally provide the banks with higher yields than alternative investments. Historically, FIFC originations that were not purchased by the banks were sold to unrelated third parties with servicing retained. However, during
the third quarter of 2009, FIFC initially sold $695 million in commercial premium finance receivables to our indirect subsidiary, FIFC Premium Funding I, LLC, which in turn sold $600 million in aggregate principal amount of notes backed by such
premium finance receivables in a securitization transaction sponsored by FIFC. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, this securitization transaction is accounted for as a secured borrowing and the securitization entity is treated as a consolidated
subsidiary of the Company. See Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements presented under Item 8 of this report for further discussion of this securitization transaction. Accordingly, beginning on January 1, 2010, all of the assets
and liabilities of the securitization entity are included directly on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of  Condition.
 Premium finance receivables — life insurance. In 2007, FIFC began financing life insurance policy premiums
generally used for estate planning purposes of high net-worth borrowers. In 2009, FIFC expanded this niche lending business segment when it purchased a portfolio of domestic life insurance premium finance loans for a total aggregate purchase price
of $745.9 million. See Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements presented under Item 8 of this report for further discussion of this business combination.  FIFC originated approximately $469.7 million in life insurance premium finance receivables in 2011. These loans are originated directly with the borrowers with assistance from life insurance carriers,
independent insurance agents, financial advisors and legal counsel. The life insurance policy is the primary form of collateral. In addition, these loans often are secured with a letter of credit, marketable securities or certificates of deposit. In
some cases, FIFC may make a loan that has a partially unsecured position.  Indirect consumer loans. As part of its
strategy to pursue specialized earning asset niches to augment loan generation within the banks’ target markets, the Company established fixed-rate automobile loan financing at Hinsdale Bank funded indirectly through unaffiliated automobile
dealers. The risks associated with the Company’s portfolios are diversified among many individual borrowers. Like other consumer loans, the indirect consumer loans are subject to the banks’ established credit standards. Management regards
substantially all of these loans as prime quality loans. In the third quarter of 2008, the Company, as a result of competitive pricing pressures, ceased the origination of indirect automobile loans through Hinsdale Bank. However, as a result of
favorable pricing opportunities coupled with reduced competition in the indirect consumer auto business, the Company re-entered this business in the fourth quarter of 2010 with originations through Hinsdale Bank. 
Other Loans. Included in the other loan category is a wide variety of personal and consumer loans to individuals as well as high
yielding short-term accounts receivable financing to clients in the temporary staffing industry located throughout the United States. The banks originate consumer loans in order to provide a wider range of financial services to their customers.

  62 


Consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans
but generally involve more credit risk than mortgage loans due to the type and nature of the collateral. Additionally, short-term accounts receivable financing may also involve greater credit risks than generally associated with the loan portfolios
of more traditional community banks depending on the marketability of the collateral.  Foreign. The Company had
approximately $20.8 million of loans to businesses of foreign countries as of December 31, 2011 compared to no loans during all of 2010. All loans were within the premium finance receivables – commercial portfolio. 
Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates 
The following table classifies the commercial loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 by date at which the loans re-price or mature, and
the type of rate:   




















  
  
One year orless
 
  
From one tofive years
 
  
Over fiveyears
 
  
Total
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
 
 

 Commercial
  



  



  



  




 Fixed rate
  
$
79,778
  
  
$
328,080
  
  
$
110,821
  
  
$
518,679
  

 Variable rate
  



  



  



  




 With floor feature
  
 
896,283
  
  
 
13,036
  
  
 
6,007
  
  
 
915,326
  

 Without floor feature
  
 
941,683
  
  
 
98,280
  
  
 
24,345
  
  
 
1,064,308
  

 Total commercial
  
 
1,917,744
  
  
 
439,396
  
  
 
141,173
  
  
 
2,498,313
  


  



  



  



  




 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  




 Fixed rate
  
 
454,400
  
  
 
1,053,225
  
  
 
84,795
  
  
 
1,592,420
  

 Variable rate
  



  



  



  




 With floor feature
  
 
1,033,123
  
  
 
19,898
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,053,021
  

 Without floor feature
  
 
688,513
  
  
 
147,625
  
  
 
32,682
  
  
 
868,820
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
 
2,176,036
  
  
 
1,220,748
  
  
 
117,477
  
  
 
3,514,261
  


  



  



  



  




 Premium finance receivables, net of unearned income
  



  



  



  




 Fixed rate
  
 
1,412,454
  
  
 
50,378
  
  
 
50,880
  
  
 
1,513,712
  

 Variable rate
  



  



  



  




 With floor feature
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Without floor feature
  
 
1,593,967
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,593,967
  

 Total premium finance receivables
(1)
  
 
3,006,421
  
  
 
50,378
  
  
 
50,880
  
  
 
3,107,679
  
  


(1)
 Includes the commercial and consumer portion of the premium finance receivables—life insurance portfolio. 
  63 


Past Due Loans and Non-performing Assets 
Our ability to manage credit risk depends in large part on our ability to properly identify and manage problem loans. To do so, we
operate a credit risk rating system under which our credit management personnel assign a credit risk rating to each loan at the time of origination and review loans on a regular basis to determine each loan’s credit risk rating on a scale of 1
through 10 with higher scores indicating higher risk. The credit risk rating structure used is shown below:   








 1 Rating
 
—    
  
Minimal Risk (Loss Potential — none or extremely low) (Superior asset quality, excellent liquidity, minimal leverage)





 2 Rating
 
—    
  
Modest Risk (Loss Potential demonstrably low) (Very good asset quality and liquidity, strong leverage capacity)





 3 Rating
 
—    
  
Average Risk (Loss Potential low but no longer refutable) (Mostly satisfactory asset quality and liquidity, good leverage capacity)





 4 Rating
 
—    
  
Above Average Risk (Loss Potential variable, but some potential for deterioration) (Acceptable asset quality, little excess liquidity, modest leverage capacity)





 5 Rating
 
—    
  
Management Attention Risk (Loss Potential moderate if corrective action not taken) (Generally acceptable asset quality, somewhat strained liquidity, minimal leverage
capacity)





 6 Rating
 
—    
  
Special Mention (Loss Potential moderate if corrective action not taken) (Assets in this category are currently protected, potentially weak, but not to the point of substandard
classification)





 7 Rating
 
—    
  
Substandard Accrual (Loss Potential distinct possibility that the bank may sustain some loss, but no discernable impairment) (Must have well defined weaknesses that jeopardize the
liquidation of the debt)





 8 Rating
 
—    
  
Substandard Non-accrual (Loss Potential well documented probability of loss, including potential impairment) (Must have well defined weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of
the debt)





 9 Rating
 
—    
  
Doubtful (Loss Potential extremely high) (These assets have all the weaknesses in those classified “substandard” with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make
collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of current existing facts, conditions, and values, highly improbable)





 10 Rating
 
—    
  
Loss (fully charged-off) (Loans in this category are considered fully uncollectible.)
 In the first quarter of 2010, the Company modified its credit risk rating scale to the above 1 through 10
risk ratings. Prior to this, the Company employed a 1 through 9 credit risk rating scale. The change to the 1 through 10 scale enabled the Company to use two separate credit risk ratings for Substandard loans. They are Substandard — Accrual
(credit risk rating 7) and Substandard — Nonaccrual (credit risk rating 8). Previously, there was only one risk rating for loans classified as Substandard. This change allows the Company to better monitor the credit risk of the portfolio.
 Each loan officer is responsible for monitoring his or her loan portfolio, recommending a credit risk rating for each loan in
his or her portfolio and ensuring the credit risk ratings are appropriate. These credit risk ratings are then ratified by the bank’s chief credit officer and/or concurrence credit officer. Credit risk ratings are determined by evaluating a
number of factors including, a borrower’s financial strength, cash flow coverage, collateral protection and guarantees. A third party loan review firm independently reviews a significant portion of the loan portfolio at each of the
Company’s subsidiary banks to evaluate the appropriateness of the management-assigned credit risk ratings. These ratings are subject to further review at each of our bank subsidiaries by the applicable regulatory authority, including the
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the State of Illinois and the State of Wisconsin and our internal audit staff.  The Company’s problem loan reporting system automatically includes all loans with credit risk ratings of 6 through 9. This system is designed to provide an on-going detailed tracking mechanism for
each problem loan. In 2008, the Company created the Managed Assets Division, comprised of experienced lenders, to focus on resolving problem asset situations. Once management determines that a loan has deteriorated to a point where it has a credit
risk rating of 6 or worse, the Company’s Managed Asset Division performs an overall credit and collateral review. As part of this review, all underlying collateral is identified and the valuation methodology is analyzed and tracked. As a result
of this initial review by the Company’s Managed Asset Division, the credit risk rating is reviewed and a portion of the outstanding loan balance may be deemed uncollectible or an impairment reserve may be established. The Company’s
impairment analysis utilizes an independent re-appraisal of the collateral (unless such a third-party evaluation is not possible due to the unique nature of the collateral, such as a closely-held business or thinly traded securities). In the case of
commercial real estate collateral, an independent third party appraisal is ordered by the Company’s Real Estate Services Group to determine if there has been any change in the underlying collateral value. These independent appraisals are
reviewed by the Real Estate Services Group and sometimes by independent third party valuation experts and may be adjusted depending upon market conditions. An appraisal is ordered at least once a year for these loans, or more often if market
conditions dictate. In the event that the underlying value of the collateral cannot be easily determined, a detailed valuation methodology is prepared by the Managed Asset Division. A summary of this analysis is provided to the directors’ loan
committee of the bank which originated the credit for approval of a charge-off, if necessary. 
  64 


Through the credit risk rating process, loans are reviewed to determine if they are
performing in accordance with the original contractual terms. If the borrower has failed to comply with the original contractual terms, further action may be required by the Company, including a downgrade in the credit risk rating, movement to
non-accrual status, a charge-off or the establishment of a specific impairment reserve. In the event a collateral shortfall is identified during the credit review process, the Company will work with the borrower for a principal reduction and/or a
pledge of additional collateral and/or additional guarantees. In the event that these options are not available, the loan may be subject to a downgrade of the credit risk rating. If we determine that a loan amount, or portion thereof, is
uncollectible, the loan’s credit risk rating is immediately downgraded to an 8 or 9 and the uncollectible amount is charged-off. Any loan that has a partial charge-off continues to be assigned a credit risk rating of an 8 or 9 for the duration
of time that a balance remains outstanding. The Managed Asset Division undertakes a thorough and ongoing analysis to determine if additional impairment and/or charge-offs are appropriate and to begin a workout plan for the credit to minimize actual
losses.  The Company’s approach to workout plans and restructuring loans is built on the credit-risk rating process. A
modification of a loan with an existing credit risk rating of six or worse or a modification of any other credit, which will result in a restructured credit risk rating of six or worse must be reviewed for troubled debt restructuring
(“TDR”) classification. In that event, our Managed Assets Division conducts an overall credit and collateral review. A modification of a loan is considered to be a TDR if both (1) the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty and
(2) for economic or legal reasons, the bank grants a concession to a borrower that it would not otherwise consider. The modification of a loan where the credit risk rating is five or better both before and after such modification is not
considered to be a TDR. Based on the Company’s credit risk rating system, it considers that borrowers whose credit risk rating is five or better are not experiencing financial difficulties and therefore, are not considered TDRs. 
TDRs, which are by definition considered impaired loans, are reviewed at the time of modification and on a quarterly basis to determine
if a specific reserve is needed. The carrying amount of the loan is compared to the expected payments to be received, discounted at the loan’s original rate, or for collateral dependent loans, to the fair value of the collateral. Any shortfall
is recorded as a specific reserve.  For non-TDR loans, if based on current information and events, it is probable that the
Company will be unable to collect all amounts due to it according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement, a loan is considered impaired, and a specific impairment reserve analysis is performed and if necessary, a specific reserve is
established. In determining the appropriate reserve for collateral-dependent loans, the Company considers the results of appraisals for the associated collateral. 
  65 


Non-Performing Assets, excluding covered assets 
The following table sets forth Wintrust’s non-performing assets, excluding covered assets, and loans acquired with credit quality
deterioration since origination, as of the dates shown:   
























 (Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Loans past due greater than 90 days and still accruing: 
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  
$
—
  
 
$
478
  
 
$
561
  
 
$
65
  
 
$
806
  

 Commercial real-estate
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
14,588
  
 
 
13,877
  

 Home equity
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
617
  
 
 
51
  

 Residential real-estate
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
412
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Premium finance receivables – commercial
  
 
5,281
  
 
 
8,096
  
 
 
6,271
  
 
 
9,339
  
 
 
8,703
  

 Premium finance receivables – life insurance
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
314
  
 
 
318
  
 
 
461
  
 
 
679
  
 
 
517
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
97
  
 
 
59
  

 Total loans past due greater than 90 days and still accruing
  
 
5,595
  
 
 
8,893
  
 
 
7,800
  
 
 
25,385
  
 
 
24,013
  








 Non-accrual loans: 
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  
 
19,018
  
 
 
16,382
  
 
 
16,509
  
 
 
8,651
  
 
 
8,037
  

 Commercial real-estate
  
 
66,508
  
 
 
93,963
  
 
 
80,639
  
 
 
83,147
  
 
 
24,869
  

 Home equity
  
 
14,164
  
 
 
7,425
  
 
 
8,883
  
 
 
828
  
 
 
1,325
  

 Residential real-estate
  
 
6,619
  
 
 
6,085
  
 
 
3,779
  
 
 
5,700
  
 
 
1,890
  

 Premium finance receivables – commercial
  
 
7,755
  
 
 
8,587
  
 
 
11,878
  
 
 
11,454
  
 
 
10,725
  

 Premium finance receivables – life insurance
  
 
54
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
704
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
138
  
 
 
191
  
 
 
995
  
 
 
913
  
 
 
560
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
233
  
 
 
252
  
 
 
617
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
435
  

 Total non-accrual loans
  
 
114,489
  
 
 
133,065
  
 
 
124,004
  
 
 
110,709
  
 
 
47,841
  








 Total non-performing loans: 
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  
 
19,018
  
 
 
16,860
  
 
 
17,070
  
 
 
8,716
  
 
 
8,843
  

 Commercial real-estate
  
 
66,508
  
 
 
93,963
  
 
 
80,639
  
 
 
97,735
  
 
 
38,746
  

 Home equity
  
 
14,164
  
 
 
7,425
  
 
 
8,883
  
 
 
1,445
  
 
 
1,376
  

 Residential real-estate
  
 
6,619
  
 
 
6,085
  
 
 
4,191
  
 
 
5,700
  
 
 
1,890
  

 Premium finance receivables – commercial
  
 
13,036
  
 
 
16,683
  
 
 
18,149
  
 
 
20,793
  
 
 
19,428
  

 Premium finance receivables – life insurance
  
 
54
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
704
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
452
  
 
 
509
  
 
 
1,456
  
 
 
1,592
  
 
 
1,077
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
233
  
 
 
253
  
 
 
712
  
 
 
113
  
 
 
494
  

 Total non-performing loans
  
$
120,084
  
 
$
141,958
  
 
$
131,804
  
 
$
136,094
  
 
$
71,854
  

 Other real estate owned
  
 
79,093
  
 
 
71,214
  
 
 
80,163
  
 
 
32,572
  
 
 
3,858
  

 Other real estate owned – obtained in acquisition
  
 
7,430
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total non-performing assets
  
$
206,607
  
 
$
213,172
  
 
$
211,967
  
 
$
168,666
  
 
$
75,712
  








 Total non-performing loans by category as a percent of its own respective category’s period-end balance:

  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  
 
0.76 
% 
 
 
0.82 
% 
 
 
0.98 
% 
 
 
0.61 
% 
 
 
0.67 
% 

 Commercial real-estate
  
 
1.89
  
 
 
2.81
  
 
 
2.45
  
 
 
2.91
  
 
 
1.26
  

 Home equity
  
 
1.64
  
 
 
0.81
  
 
 
0.95
  
 
 
0.16
  
 
 
0.20
  

 Residential real-estate
  
 
1.89
  
 
 
1.72
  
 
 
1.37
  
 
 
2.17
  
 
 
0.83
  

 Premium finance receivables – commercial
  
 
0.92
  
 
 
1.32
  
 
 
2.49
  
 
 
1.67
  
 
 
1.82
  

 Premium finance receivables – life insurance
  
 
—
  
 
 
0.01
  
 
 
0.06
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
0.70
  
 
 
0.99
  
 
 
1.48
  
 
 
0.90
  
 
 
0.45
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
0.19
  
 
 
0.24
  
 
 
0.65
  
 
 
0.07
  
 
 
0.29
  

 Total non-performing loans
  
 
1.14 
% 
 
 
1.48 
% 
 
 
1.57 
% 
 
 
1.79 
% 
 
 
1.06 
% 








 Total non-performing assets, as a percentage of total assets 
  
 
1.30 
% 
 
 
1.52 
% 
 
 
1.74 
% 
 
 
1.58 
% 
 
 
0.81 
% 

 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage oftotal non-performing loans

  
 
91.92 
% 
 
 
80.24 
% 
 
 
74.56 
% 
 
 
51.26 
% 
 
 
70.13 
% 

  66 


Non-performing Commercial and Commercial Real Estate 
The commercial non-performing loan category totaled $19.0 million as of December 31, 2011 compared to $16.9 million as of
December 31, 2010, while the non-performing commercial real estate loan category totaled $66.5 million as of December 31, 2011 compared to $94.0 million as of December 31, 2010. 
Management is pursuing the resolution of all credits in this category. At this time, management believes reserves are adequate to absorb
inherent losses that may occur upon the ultimate resolution of these credits.  Non-performing Residential Real Estate and Home Equity
 The non-performing residential real estate and home equity loans totaled $20.8 million as of December 31, 2011. The
balance increased $7.3 million from December 31, 2010. The December 31, 2011 non-performing balance is comprised of $6.6 million of residential real estate (34 individual credits) and $14.2 million of home equity loans (42 individual
credits). On average, this is approximately 5 non-performing residential real estate loans and home equity loans per chartered bank within the Company. The Company believes control and collection of these loans is very manageable. At this time,
management believes reserves are adequate to absorb inherent losses that may occur upon the ultimate resolution of these credits. 
Non-performing Commercial Premium Finance Receivables  The table below presents the level of non-performing property and casualty premium finance receivables as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the amount of net charge-offs for the years then ended.
  












 
  
December 31,
 

 (Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Non-performing premium finance receivables — commercial
  
$
13,036
  
 
$
16,683
  

 - as a percent of premium finance receivables — commercial outstanding
  
 
0.92
% 
 
 
1.32
%  

 Net charge-offs of premium finance receivables — commercial
  
$
611
  
 
$
22,224
  

 - as a percent of average premium finance receivables —
commercial
  
 
0.04
% 
 
 
1.74
%  
 Fluctuations in this category may occur due to timing and nature of account collections from insurance
carriers. The Company’s underwriting standards, regardless of the condition of the economy, have remained consistent. We anticipate that net charge-offs and non-performing asset levels in the near term will continue to be at levels that are
within acceptable operating ranges for this category of loans. Management is comfortable with administering the collections at this level of non-performing property and casualty premium finance receivables and believes reserves are adequate to
absorb inherent losses that may occur upon the ultimate resolution of these credits.  Non-performing Indirect Consumer Loans
 Total non-performing indirect consumer loans were $452,000 at December 31, 2011, compared to $509,000 at
December 31, 2010. The ratio of these non-performing loans to total indirect consumer loans was 0.70% at December 31, 2011 compared to 0.99% at December 31, 2010. Net charge-offs as a percent of total indirect consumer loans were
0.04% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 1.09% in the same period in 2010. The indirect consumer loan portfolio has increased 26% since December 31, 2010 to a balance of $64.5 million at December 31, 2011. 
Loan Portfolio Aging 
The following table shows, as of December 31, 2011, only 1.2% of the entire portfolio, excluding covered loans, is in a
non-performing (non-accrual or greater than 90 days past due and still accruing interest) with only 1.3% either one or two payments past due. In total, 98% of the Company’s total loan portfolio, excluding covered loans, as of December 31,
2011 is current according to the original contractual terms of the loan agreements. 
  67 


The tables below show the aging of the Company’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 and 2010:
  




























 As of December 31, 2011 (Dollars in thousands)
  
 Non-
accrual
 
 
90+ daysand stillaccruing
 
 
 60-89
days pastdue
 
 
 30-59
days pastdue
 
 
Current
 
 
Total Loans
 

 Loan Balances:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
16,154
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
7,496
  
 
$
15,797
  
 
$
1,411,004
  
 
$
1,450,451
  

 Franchise
  
 
1,792
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
140,983
  
 
 
142,775
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
180,450
  
 
 
180,450
  

 Community Advantage – homeowners association
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
77,504
  
 
 
77,504
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
709
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
19,518
  
 
 
20,397
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
1,072
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
749
  
 
 
11,026
  
 
 
452,890
  
 
 
465,737
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
78,319
  
 
 
78,319
  

 Leases
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
431
  
 
 
71,703
  
 
 
72,134
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,125
  
 
 
2,125
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
589
  
 
 
74
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,758
  
 
 
8,421
  

 Total commercial
  
 
19,018
  
 
 
589
  
 
 
9,028
  
 
 
27,424
  
 
 
2,442,254
  
 
 
2,498,313
  

 Commercial real-estate:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential construction
  
 
1,993
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,982
  
 
 
1,721
  
 
 
57,115
  
 
 
65,811
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
2,158
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
150
  
 
 
167,568
  
 
 
169,876
  

 Land
  
 
31,547
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,100
  
 
 
6,772
  
 
 
136,112
  
 
 
178,531
  

 Office
  
 
10,614
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,622
  
 
 
930
  
 
 
540,280
  
 
 
554,446
  

 Industrial
  
 
2,002
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
508
  
 
 
4,863
  
 
 
548,429
  
 
 
555,802
  

 Retail
  
 
5,366
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,268
  
 
 
8,651
  
 
 
517,444
  
 
 
536,729
  

 Multi-family
  
 
4,736
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,880
  
 
 
347
  
 
 
305,594
  
 
 
314,557
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
8,092
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,163
  
 
 
20,814
  
 
 
1,050,585
  
 
 
1,086,654
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial real-estate (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
2,198
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
252
  
 
 
49,405
  
 
 
51,855
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
 
66,508
  
 
 
2,198
  
 
 
28,523
  
 
 
44,500
  
 
 
3,372,532
  
 
 
3,514,261
  

 Home equity
  
 
14,164
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,351
  
 
 
3,262
  
 
 
843,568
  
 
 
862,345
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
6,619
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,343
  
 
 
3,112
  
 
 
337,522
  
 
 
349,596
  

 Purchased non-covered residentialreal estate (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
693
  
 
 
693
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial insurance loans
  
 
7,755
  
 
 
5,281
  
 
 
3,850
  
 
 
13,787
  
 
 
1,381,781
  
 
 
1,412,454
  

 Life insurance loans
  
 
54
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
423
  
 
 
1,096,285
  
 
 
1,096,762
  

 Purchased life insurance loans (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
598,463
  
 
 
598,463
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
138
  
 
 
314
  
 
 
113
  
 
 
551
  
 
 
63,429
  
 
 
64,545
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
233
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
1,070
  
 
 
122,393
  
 
 
123,866
  

 Purchased non-covered consumer and other (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
79
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
$
114,489
  
 
$
8,382
  
 
$
45,378
  
 
$
94,131
  
 
$
10,258,997
  
 
$
10,521,377
  

 Covered loans
  
 
—
  
 
 
174,727
  
 
 
25,507
  
 
 
24,799
  
 
 
426,335
  
 
 
651,368
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income
  
$
114,489
  
 
$
183,109
  
 
$
70,885
  
 
$
118,930
  
 
$
10,685,332
  
 
$
11,172,745
  









 Aging as a % of Loan Balance:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and industrial
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
—
% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
1.1
% 
 
 
97.3
% 
 
 
100.0
%  

 Franchise
  
 
1.3
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
98.7
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Community Advantage – homeowners association
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3.5
  
 
 
0.8
  
 
 
95.7
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
0.2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.2
  
 
 
2.4
  
 
 
97.2
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Leases
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.6
  
 
 
99.4
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
7.0
  
 
 
0.9
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
92.1
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Total commercial
  
 
0.8
  
 
 
0.0
  
 
 
0.4
  
 
 
1.1
  
 
 
97.7
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential construction
  
 
3.0
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7.6
  
 
 
2.6
  
 
 
86.8
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
1.3
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
98.6
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Land
  
 
17.7
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2.3
  
 
 
3.8
  
 
 
76.2
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Office
  
 
1.9
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.5
  
 
 
0.2
  
 
 
97.4
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Industrial
  
 
0.4
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.9
  
 
 
98.6
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Retail
  
 
1.0
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.0
  
 
 
1.6
  
 
 
96.4
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Multi-family
  
 
1.5
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.2
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
97.2
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
0.7
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.7
  
 
 
1.9
  
 
 
96.7
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased non-covered commercialreal-estate (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
4.2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.5
  
 
 
95.3
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
 
1.9
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.8
  
 
 
1.3
  
 
 
95.9
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Home equity
  
 
1.6
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.2
  
 
 
0.4
  
 
 
97.8
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
1.9
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.7
  
 
 
0.9
  
 
 
96.5
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased non-covered residentialreal estate (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial insurance loans
  
 
0.5
  
 
 
0.4
  
 
 
0.3
  
 
 
1.0
  
 
 
97.8
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Life insurance loans
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased life insurance loans (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
0.2
  
 
 
0.5
  
 
 
0.2
  
 
 
0.9
  
 
 
98.2
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
0.2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.9
  
 
 
98.8
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased non-covered consumer and other (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2.5
  
 
 
97.5
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
0.1 
% 
 
 
0.4 
% 
 
 
0.9 
% 
 
 
97.5 
% 
 
 
100.0 
%  

 Covered loans
  
 
—
  
 
 
26.8
  
 
 
3.9
  
 
 
3.8
  
 
 
65.5
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income
  
 
1.0
% 
 
 
1.6 
% 
 
 
0.6 
% 
 
 
1.1 
% 
 
 
95.7 
% 
 
 
100.0 
%  
  


(1)
 Purchased loans represent loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination, in accordance with ASC 310-30. Loan
agings are based upon contractually required payments. 
  68 






























 As of December 31, 2010 (Dollars in thousands)
  
Nonaccrual
 
 
90+ daysand stillaccruing
 
 
60-89days pastdue
 
 
 30-59
days pastdue
 
 
Current
 
 
Total Loans
 

 Loan Balances:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
15,922
  
 
$
478
  
 
$
4,416
  
 
$
9,928
  
 
$
1,280,009
  
 
$
1,310,753
  

 Franchise
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,250
  
 
 
117,238
  
 
 
119,488
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
131,306
  
 
 
131,306
  

 Community Advantage – homeowners association
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
75,542
  
 
 
75,542
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
1,000
  
 
 
23,440
  
 
 
24,618
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
417
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
2,846
  
 
 
285,555
  
 
 
288,979
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
56,343
  
 
 
56,343
  

 Leases
  
 
43
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
41,498
  
 
 
41,541
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
756
  
 
 
756
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total commercial and commercial real-estate
  
 
16,382
  
 
 
478
  
 
 
4,755
  
 
 
16,024
  
 
 
2,011,687
  
 
 
2,049,326
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential construction
  
 
10,010
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
1,801
  
 
 
84,040
  
 
 
95,947
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
1,820
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,481
  
 
 
128,371
  
 
 
131,672
  

 Land
  
 
37,602
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
6,815
  
 
 
11,915
  
 
 
203,857
  
 
 
260,189
  

 Office
  
 
12,718
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
9,121
  
 
 
3,202
  
 
 
510,290
  
 
 
535,331
  

 Industrial
  
 
3,480
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
686
  
 
 
2,276
  
 
 
493,859
  
 
 
500,301
  

 Retail
  
 
3,265
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,088
  
 
 
3,839
  
 
 
499,335
  
 
 
510,527
  

 Multi-family
  
 
4,794
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,573
  
 
 
3,062
  
 
 
281,525
  
 
 
290,954
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
20,274
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8,481
  
 
 
15,059
  
 
 
969,272
  
 
 
1,013,086
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial real-estate (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
 
93,963
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
30,860
  
 
 
42,635
  
 
 
3,170,549
  
 
 
3,338,007
  

 Home equity
  
 
7,425
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,181
  
 
 
7,098
  
 
 
897,708
  
 
 
914,412
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
6,085
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,836
  
 
 
8,224
  
 
 
337,191
  
 
 
353,336
  

 Purchased non-covered residential real estate (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial insurance loans
  
 
8,587
  
 
 
8,096
  
 
 
6,076
  
 
 
16,584
  
 
 
1,226,157
  
 
 
1,265,500
  

 Life insurance loans
  
 
180
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
826,119
  
 
 
826,299
  

 Purchased life insurance loans (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
174
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
695,413
  
 
 
695,587
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
191
  
 
 
318
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
918
  
 
 
49,419
  
 
 
51,147
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
252
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
379
  
 
 
105,531
  
 
 
106,272
  

 Purchased non-covered consumer and other (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
$
133,065
  
 
$
9,067
  
 
$
46,118
  
 
$
91,862
  
 
$
9,319,774
  
 
$
9,599,886
  

 Covered loans
  
 
—
  
 
 
117,161
  
 
 
7,352
  
 
 
22,744
  
 
 
187,096
  
 
 
334,353
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income
  
$
133,065
  
 
$
126,228
  
 
$
53,470
  
 
$
114,606
  
 
$
9,506,870
  
 
$
9,934,239
  









 Commercial
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and industrial
  
 
1.0
% 
 
 
—
% 
 
 
0.3
% 
 
 
0.8
% 
 
 
97.9
% 
 
 
100.0
% 

 Franchise
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.9
  
 
 
98.1
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Community Advantage – homeowners association
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.7
  
 
 
4.1
  
 
 
95.2
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
1.0
  
 
 
98.8
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Leases
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
99.9
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total commercial
  
 
0.8
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.2
  
 
 
0.8
  
 
 
98.2
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential construction
  
 
10.4
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
1.9
  
 
 
87.6
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
1.4
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.1
  
 
 
97.5
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Land
  
 
14.5
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2.6
  
 
 
4.6
  
 
 
78.3
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Office
  
 
2.4
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.7
  
 
 
0.6
  
 
 
95.3
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Industrial
  
 
0.7
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.5
  
 
 
98.7
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Retail
  
 
0.6
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.8
  
 
 
0.8
  
 
 
97.8
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Multi-family
  
 
1.6
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.5
  
 
 
1.1
  
 
 
96.8
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
2.0
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.8
  
 
 
1.5
  
 
 
95.7
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial real-estate (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
 
2.8
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1.2
  
 
 
1.5
  
 
 
94.5
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Home equity
  
 
0.8
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.2
  
 
 
0.8
  
 
 
98.2
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
1.7
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.5
  
 
 
2.3
  
 
 
95.5
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased non-covered residential real estate (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial insurance loans
  
 
0.7
  
 
 
0.6
  
 
 
0.5
  
 
 
1.3
  
 
 
96.9
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Life insurance loans
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased life insurance loans (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
0.4
  
 
 
0.6
  
 
 
0.6
  
 
 
1.8
  
 
 
96.6
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
0.2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.4
  
 
 
99.3
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Purchased non-covered consumer and other (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
 
1.4
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
1.0
% 
 
 
97.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 

 Covered loans
  
 
—
  
 
 
35.0
  
 
 
2.2
  
 
 
6.8
  
 
 
56.0
  
 
 
100.0
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income
  
 
1.3
% 
 
 
1.3
% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
1.2
% 
 
 
95.7
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
  


(1)
 Purchased loans represent loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination, in accordance with ASC 310-30. Loan
agings are based upon contractually required payments. 
  69 


As of December 31, 2011, only $45.4 million of all loans, excluding covered loans, or
0.4%, were 60 to 89 days past due and $94.1 million, or 0.9%, were 30 to 59 days (or one payment) past due. As of December 31, 2010, $46.1 million of all loans, excluding covered loans, or 0.5%, were 60 to 89 days past due and $91.9 million, or
1.0%, were 30 to 59 days (or one payment) past due.  The majority of the commercial and commercial real estate loans shown as
60 to 89 days and 30 to 59 days past due are included on the Company’s internal problem loan reporting system. Loans on this system are closely monitored by management on a monthly basis. Near-term delinquencies (30 to 59 days past due)
decreased $2.2 million since December 31, 2010.  The Company’s home equity and residential loan portfolios continue
to exhibit low delinquency ratios. Home equity loans at December 31, 2011 that are current with regard to the contractual terms of the loan agreement represent 97.8% of the total home equity portfolio. Residential real estate loans at
December 31, 2011 that are current with regards to the contractual terms of the loan agreements comprise 96.5% of total residential real estate loans outstanding.  The ratio of non-performing commercial premium finance receivables fluctuates throughout the year due to the nature and timing of canceled account collections from insurance carriers. Due to the nature of
collateral for commercial premium finance receivables, it customarily takes 60-150 days to convert the collateral into cash. Accordingly, the level of non-performing commercial premium finance receivables is not necessarily indicative of the loss
inherent in the portfolio. In the event of default, Wintrust has the power to cancel the insurance policy and collect the unearned portion of the premium from the insurance carrier. In the event of cancellation, the cash returned in payment of the
unearned premium by the insurer should generally be sufficient to cover the receivable balance, the interest and other charges due. Due to notification requirements and processing time by most insurance carriers, many receivables will become
delinquent beyond 90 days while the insurer is processing the return of the unearned premium. Management continues to accrue interest until maturity as the unearned premium is ordinarily sufficient to pay-off the outstanding balance and contractual
interest due.  Non-performing Loans Rollforward  The table below presents a summary of non-performing loans, excluding covered loans, as of December 31, 2011 and shows the changes in the balance during 2011 and 2010: 
(Dollars in thousands)   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
141,958
  
 
$
131,804
  

 Additions, net
  
 
166,459
  
 
 
173,461
  

 Return to performing status
  
 
(7,800
) 
 
 
(4,914
) 

 Payments received
  
 
(44,804
) 
 
 
(30,513
) 

 Transfers to OREO
  
 
(59,203
) 
 
 
(68,663
) 

 Charge-offs
  
 
(68,608
) 
 
 
(55,220
) 

 Net change for niche loans (1)
  
 
(7,918
) 
 
 
(3,997
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of period
  
$
120,084
  
 
$
141,958
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 This includes
activity for premium finance receivables, mortgages held for investment by Wintrust Mortgage and indirect consumer loans 
  70 


Allowance for Loan Losses  The allowance for loan losses represents management’s estimate of the probable and reasonably estimable loan losses that our loan portfolio is expected to incur. The allowance for loan losses is
determined quarterly using a methodology that incorporates important risk characteristics of each loan, as described below under “How We Determine the Allowance for Credit Losses.” This process is subject to review at each of our bank
subsidiaries by the applicable regulatory authority, including the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the OCC, the State of Illinois and the State of Wisconsin.  The following table sets forth the allocation of the allowance for loan and covered loan losses and the allowance for losses on lending-related commitments by major loan type and the percentage of loans
in each category to total loans for the past five fiscal years:   












































 
 
 December 31,
2011
 
 
 December 31,
2010
 
 
 December 31,
2009
 
 
December 31,2008
 
 
December 31,2007
 

(Dollars in thousands)
 
Amount
 
 
% of LoanType toTotalLoans
 
 
Amount
 
 
% of LoanType toTotalLoans
 
 
Amount
 
 
% of LoanType toTotalLoans
 
 
Amount
 
 
% of LoanType toTotalLoans
 
 
Amount
 
 
% of LoanType toTotalLoans
 

 Allowance for loan losses and allowance for covered loan losses allocation:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
$
31,237
  
 
 
22
% 
 
$
31,777
  
 
 
21
% 
 
$
28,012
  
 
 
21
% 
 
$
17,495
  
 
 
19
% 
 
$
16,185
  
 
 
20
% 

 Commercial real-estate
 
 
56,405
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
62,618
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
50,952
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
39,490
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
22,810
  
 
 
45
  

 Home equity
 
 
7,712
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
6,213
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
9,013
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
3,067
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
2,057
  
 
 
10
  

 Residential real-estate
 
 
5,028
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
5,107
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
3,139
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
1,698
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
1,290
  
 
 
3
  

 Premium finance receivables – commercial
 
 
6,109
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
5,482
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
2,836
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
4,358
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
3,643
  
 
 
16
  

 Premium finance receivables – life insurance
 
 
1,105
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
837
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
980
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
308
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
 
 
645
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
526
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,368
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,690
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
2,900
  
 
 
4
  

 Consumer and other
 
 
2,140
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,343
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,977
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,661
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
1,475
  
 
 
2
  

 Total allowance for loan losses
 
 
110,381
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
113,903
  
 
 
97
  
 
 
98,277
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
69,767
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
50,389
  
 
 
100
  

 Covered loans
 
 
12,977
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total allowance for loan losses and allowance for covered loan
losses
 
$
123,358
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
113,903
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
98,277
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
69,767
  
 
 
100
% 
 
$
50,389
  
 
 
100
% 













 Allowance category as a percent of total allowance for loan losses and allowance for covered loan losses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
25
% 
 



 
 
28
% 
 



 
 
29
% 
 



 
 
25
% 
 



 
 
32
% 
 




 Commercial real-estate
 
 
46
  
 



 
 
55
  
 



 
 
52
  
 



 
 
57
  
 



 
 
45
  
 




 Home equity
 
 
6
  
 



 
 
5
  
 



 
 
9
  
 



 
 
5
  
 



 
 
4
  
 




 Residential real-estate
 
 
4
  
 



 
 
4
  
 



 
 
3
  
 



 
 
2
  
 



 
 
3
  
 




 Premium finance receivables—commercial
 
 
5
  
 



 
 
5
  
 



 
 
3
  
 



 
 
6
  
 



 
 
7
  
 




 Premium finance receivables—life insurance
 
 
1
  
 



 
 
1
  
 



 
 
1
  
 



 
 
1
  
 



 
 
—
  
 




 Indirect consumer
 
 
1
  
 



 
 
1
  
 



 
 
1
  
 



 
 
2
  
 



 
 
6
  
 




 Consumer and other
 
 
1
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
  
 
 
 
 

 Total allowance for loan losses
 
 
89
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
  
 
 
 
 

 Covered loans
 
 
11
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
 
 













 Total allowance for loan losses
 
 
100
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
 
 













 Allowance for losses on lending-related commitments:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and commercial real estate
 
 
13,231
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,134
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,554
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,586
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
493
  
 
 
 
 

 Total allowance for credit losses including allowance for covered loan
losses
 
 
136,589
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
118,037
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
101,831
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
71,353
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
50,882
  
 
 
 
 
 Management has determined that the allowance for loan losses was appropriate at December 31, 2011,
and that the loan portfolio is well diversified and well secured, without undue concentration in any specific risk area. While this process involves a high degree of management judgment, the allowance for credit losses is based on a comprehensive,
well documented, and consistently applied analysis of the Company’s loan portfolio. This analysis takes into consideration all available information existing as of the financial statement date, including environmental factors such as economic,
industry, geographical and political factors. The relative level of allowance for credit losses is reviewed and compared to industry peers. This review encompasses the levels of nonperforming loans, the ratio of nonperforming loans to the allowance
for credit losses and the overall levels of net charge-offs. Historical trending of both the Company’s results and the industry peers is also reviewed to analyze comparative significance. 
  71 


Allowance for Credit Losses  The following tables summarize the activity in our allowance for credit losses during the last five fiscal years.   
























(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 


  
  
  
 

 Allowance for loan losses at beginning of year
  
$
113,903
  
 
$
98,277
  
 
$
69,767
  
 
$
50,389
  
 
$
46,055
  

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
97,920
  
 
 
124,664
  
 
 
167,932
  
 
 
57,441
  
 
 
14,879
  

 Allowance acquired in business combinations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
362
  

 Other adjustments
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,943
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Reclassification (to)/from allowance for unfunded lending-related commitments
  
 
1,904
  
 
 
(1,301
) 
 
 
(2,037
) 
 
 
(1,093
) 
 
 
(36
) 








Charge-offs:
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  
 
31,951
  
 
 
18,592
  
 
 
35,022
  
 
 
10,066
  
 
 
4,806
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
62,698
  
 
 
61,873
  
 
 
89,114
  
 
 
20,403
  
 
 
4,152
  

 Home equity
  
 
5,020
  
 
 
5,926
  
 
 
4,605
  
 
 
284
  
 
 
289
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
4,115
  
 
 
1,143
  
 
 
1,067
  
 
 
1,631
  
 
 
147
  

 Premium finance receivables – commercial
  
 
6,617
  
 
 
23,005
  
 
 
8,153
  
 
 
4,073
  
 
 
2,425
  

 Premium finance receivables – life insurance
  
 
275
  
 
 
233
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
244
  
 
 
967
  
 
 
1,848
  
 
 
1,322
  
 
 
873
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
1,532
  
 
 
1,141
  
 
 
644
  
 
 
618
  
 
 
845
  


  
  
  
 

 Total charge-offs
  
 
112,452
  
 
 
112,880
  
 
 
140,453
  
 
 
38,397
  
 
 
13,537
  


  
  
  
 








 Recoveries:
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  
 
1,258
  
 
 
1,140
  
 
 
450
  
 
 
299
  
 
 
803
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
1,386
  
 
 
914
  
 
 
792
  
 
 
197
  
 
 
929
  

 Home equity
  
 
64
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
815
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
61
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
10
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
6
  

 Premium finance receivables – commercial
  
 
6,006
  
 
 
781
  
 
 
651
  
 
 
662
  
 
 
514
  

 Premium finance receivables – life insurance
  
 
12
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
220
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
179
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
172
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
150
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
181
  


  
  
  
 

 Total recoveries
  
 
9,106
  
 
 
3,200
  
 
 
3,068
  
 
 
1,427
  
 
 
2,666
  


  
  
  
 

 Net charge-offs, excluding covered loans
  
 
(103,346
) 
 
 
(109,680
) 
 
 
(137,385
) 
 
 
(36,970
) 
 
 
(10,871
) 


  
  
  
 

 Allowance for loan losses at year end
  
$
110,381
  
 
$
113,903
  
 
$
98,277
  
 
$
69,767
  
 
$
50,389
  

 Allowance for unfunded lending-related commitments at year end
  
$
13,231
  
 
$
4,134
  
 
$
3,554
  
 
$
1,586
  
 
$
493
  

 Allowance for credit losses at year end
  
$
123,612
  
 
$
118,037
  
 
$
101,831
  
 
$
71,353
  
 
$
50,882
  


  
  
  
 








 Net charge-offs by category as a percentage of its own respective category’s average:
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
  
 
1.44
% 
 
 
0.95
% 
 
 
2.18
% 
 
 
0.72
% 
 
 
0.31
% 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
1.80
  
 
 
1.83
  
 
 
2.59
  
 
 
0.63
  
 
 
0.11
  

 Home equity
  
 
0.56
  
 
 
0.64
  
 
 
0.41
  
 
 
0.04
  
 
 
0.04
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
0.79
  
 
 
0.19
  
 
 
0.21
  
 
 
0.49
  
 
 
0.04
  

 Premium finance receivables – commercial
  
 
0.04
  
 
 
1.74
  
 
 
0.67
  
 
 
0.29
  
 
 
0.15
  

 Premium finance receivables – life insurance
  
 
0.02
  
 
 
0.02
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
0.04
  
 
 
1.09
  
 
 
1.24
  
 
 
0.53
  
 
 
0.28
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
1.21
  
 
 
0.93
  
 
 
0.35
  
 
 
0.32
  
 
 
0.47
  


  
  
  
 

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
 
1.02
% 
 
 
1.16
% 
 
 
1.65
% 
 
 
0.51
% 
 
 
0.16
% 


  
  
  
 

 Net charge-offs as a percentage of the provision for credit losses 
  
 
105.54
% 
 
 
87.98
% 
 
 
81.81
% 
 
 
64.36
% 
 
 
73.07
% 








 Year-end total loans (excluding covered loans) 
  
$
10,521,377
  
 
$
9,599,886
  
 
$
8,411,771
  
 
$
7,621,069
  
 
$
6,801,602
  

 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans at end of year 
  
 
1.05
% 
 
 
1.19
% 
 
 
1.17
% 
 
 
0.92
% 
 
 
0.74
% 

 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans at end of year 
  
 
1.17
% 
 
 
1.23
% 
 
 
1.21
% 
 
 
0.94
% 
 
 
0.75
% 








 Year-end total loans (including covered loans) 
  
$
11,172,745
  
 
$
9,934,239
  
 
$
8,411,771
  
 
$
7,621,069
  
 
$
6,801,602
  

 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans at end of year 
  
 
1.10
% 
 
 
1.15
% 
 
 
1.17
% 
 
 
0.92
% 
 
 
0.74
% 

 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans at end of year

  
 
1.22
% 
 
 
1.19
% 
 
 
1.21
% 
 
 
0.94
% 
 
 
0.75
% 

  72 


The allowance for credit losses is comprised of an allowance for loan losses, which is
determined with respect to loans that we have originated, and an allowance for lending-related commitments. Our allowance for lending-related commitments is determined with respect to funds that we have committed to lend but for which funds have not
yet been disbursed and is computed using a methodology similar to that used to determine the allowance for loan losses. Additions to the allowance for loan losses are charged to earnings through the provision for credit losses. Charge-offs represent
the amount of loans that have been determined to be uncollectible during a given period, and are deducted from the allowance for loan losses, and recoveries represent the amount of collections received from loans that had previously been charged
off, and are credited to the allowance for loan losses.  How We Determine the Allowance for Credit Losses 
The allowance for loan losses includes an element for estimated probable but undetected losses and for imprecision in the credit risk
models used to calculate the allowance. As part of the problem loan reporting system review, the Company analyzes the loan for purposes of calculating our specific impairment reserves and a general reserve. 
Specific Impairment Reserves:  Loans with a credit risk rating of a 6 through 9 are reviewed on a monthly basis to determine if (a) an amount is deemed uncollectible (a charge-off) or (b) it is probable that the Company will
be unable to collect amounts due in accordance with the original contractual terms of the loan (impaired loan). If a loan is impaired, the carrying amount of the loan is compared to the amounts and timing of expected future cash flows, discounted at
the loan’s original rate, or for collateral dependent loans, to the fair value of the collateral. Any shortfall is recorded as a specific reserve.  General Reserves:  For loans with a credit risk rating of 1 through 7,
reserves are established based on the type of loan collateral, if any, and the assigned credit risk rating. Determination of the allowance is inherently subjective as it requires significant estimates, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans
based on historical loss experience, and consideration of current environmental factors and economic trends, all of which may be susceptible to significant change.  We determine this component of the allowance for loan losses by classifying each loan into (i) categories based on the type of collateral that secures the loan (if any), and (ii) categories
based on the credit risk rating of the loan, as described above under “Past Due Loans and Non-Performing Assets.” Each combination of collateral and credit risk rating is then assigned a specific loss factor that incorporates the following
factors:   


 
•
 
 historical loss experience;   


 
•
 
 changes in lending policies and procedures, including changes in underwriting standards and collection, charge-off, and recovery practices not
considered elsewhere in estimating credit losses;   


 
•
 
 changes in national, regional, and local economic and business conditions and developments that affect the collectibility of the portfolio;
  


 
•
 
 changes in the nature and volume of the portfolio and in the terms of the loans; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the experience, ability, and depth of lending management and other relevant staff; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the volume and severity of past due loans, the volume of non-accrual loans, and the volume and severity of adversely classified or graded
loans;   


 
•
 
 changes in the quality of the bank’s loan review system; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the underlying collateral for collateral dependent loans; 
 


 
•
 
 the existence and effect of any concentrations of credit, and changes in the level of such concentrations; and 
 


 
•
 
 the effect of other external factors such as competition and legal and regulatory requirements on the level of estimated credit losses in the
bank’s existing portfolio. 
  73 


Home Equity and Residential Real Estate Loans 
The determination of the appropriate allowance for loan losses for residential real estate and home equity loans differs slightly from
the process used for commercial and commercial real estate loans. The same credit risk rating system, problem loan reporting system, collateral coding methodology and loss factor assignment are used. The only significant difference is in how the
credit risk ratings are assigned to these loans.  The home equity loan portfolio is reviewed on a loan by loan basis by
analyzing current FICO scores of the borrowers, line availability, recent line usage and the aging status of the loan. Certain of these factors, or combination of these factors, may cause a portion of the credit risk ratings of home equity loans
across all banks to be downgraded. Similar to commercial and commercial real estate loans, once a home equity loan’s credit risk rating is downgraded to a 6 through 9, the Company’s Managed Asset Division reviews and advises the banks as
to collateral valuations and as to the ultimate resolution of the credits that deteriorate to a non-accrual status to minimize losses.  Residential real estate loans that are downgraded to a credit risk rating of 6 through 9 also enter the problem loan reporting system and have the underlying collateral evaluated by the Managed Assets
Division.  Premium Finance Receivables and Indirect Consumer Loans 
The determination of the appropriate allowance for loan losses for premium finance receivables and indirect consumer loans is based
solely on the aging (collection status) of the portfolios. Due to the large number of generally smaller sized and homogenous credits in these portfolios, these loans are not individually assigned a credit risk rating. Loss factors are assigned to
each delinquency category in order to calculate an allowance for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses for these categories is entirely a general reserve.  Effects of Economic Recession and Real Estate Market  The Company’s
primary markets, which are mostly in Chicago metropolitan area, have not experienced the same levels of credit deterioration in residential mortgage and home equity loans as certain other major metropolitan markets, such as Miami, Phoenix or
Southern California, however the Company’s markets have clearly been under stress. As of December 31, 2011, home equity loans and residential mortgages comprised 8% and 3%, respectively, of the Company’s total loan portfolio. At
December 31, 2011 (excluding covered loans), approximately only 2.6% of all of the Company’s residential mortgage loans and approximately only 1.8% of all of the Company’s home equity loans are more than one payment past due. Although
there is stress in the Chicago metropolitan and southeastern Wisconsin markets, our portfolios of residential mortgages and home equity loans are performing reasonably well as reflected in the aging of the Company’s loan portfolio table shown
earlier in this section.  Methodology in Assessing Impairment and Charge-off Amounts 
In determining the amount of impairment or charge-offs associated with collateral dependent loans, the Company values the loan generally
by starting with a valuation obtained from an appraisal of the underlying collateral and then deducting estimated selling costs to arrive at a net appraised value. We obtain the appraisals of the underlying collateral from one of a pre-approved list
of independent, third party appraisal firms.  In many cases, the Company simultaneously values the underlying collateral by
marketing the property to market participants interested in purchasing properties of the same type. If the Company receives offers or indications of interest, we will analyze the price and review market conditions to assess whether in light of such
information the appraised value overstates the likely price and that a lower price would be a better assessment of the market value of the property and would enable us to liquidate the collateral. Additionally, the Company takes into account the
strength of any guarantees and the ability of the borrower to provide value related to those guarantees in determining the ultimate charge-off or reserve associated with any impaired loans. Accordingly, the Company may charge-off a loan to a value
below the net appraised value if it believes that an expeditious liquidation is desirable in the circumstance and it has legitimate offers or other indications of interest to support a value that is less than the net appraised value. Alternatively,
the Company may carry a loan at a value that is in excess of the appraised value if the Company has a guarantee from a borrower that the Company believes has realizable value. In evaluating the strength of any guarantee, the Company evaluates the
financial wherewithal of the guarantor, the guarantor’s reputation, and the guarantor’s willingness and desire to work with the Company. The Company then conducts a review of the strength of a guarantee on a frequency established as the
circumstances and conditions of the borrower warrant.  In circumstances where the Company has received an appraisal but has no
third party offers or indications of interest, the Company may enlist the input of realtors in the local market as to the highest valuation that the realtor believes would result in a liquidation of the property given a reasonable marketing period
of approximately 90 days. To the extent that the realtors’ indication of market clearing price under such scenario is less than the net appraised valuation, the Company may take a charge-off on the loan to a valuation that is less than the net
appraised valuation. 
  74 


The Company may also charge-off a loan below the net appraised valuation if the Company
holds a junior mortgage position in a piece of collateral whereby the risk to acquiring control of the property through the purchase of the senior mortgage position is deemed to potentially increase the risk of loss upon liquidation due to the
amount of time to ultimately market the property and the volatile market conditions. In such cases, the Company may abandon its junior mortgage and charge-off the loan balance in full. 
In other cases, the Company may allow the borrower to conduct a “short sale,” which is a sale where the Company allows the
borrower to sell the property at a value less than the amount of the loan. Many times, it is possible for the current owner to receive a better price than if the property is marketed by a financial institution which the market place perceives to
have a greater desire to liquidate the property at a lower price. To the extent that we allow a short sale at a price below the value indicated by an appraisal, we may take a charge-off beyond the value that an appraisal would have indicated.
 Other market conditions may require a reserve to bring the carrying value of the loan below the net appraised valuation such
as litigation surrounding the borrower and/or property securing our loan or other market conditions impacting the value of the collateral.  Having determined the net value based on the factors such as those noted above and compared that value to the book value of the loan, the Company may arrive at a charge-off amount or a specific reserve
included in the allowance for loan losses. In summary, for collateral dependent loans, appraisals are used as the fair value starting point in the estimate of net value. Estimated costs to sell are deducted from the appraised value to arrive at the
net appraised value. Although an external appraisal is the primary source of valuation utilized for charge-offs on collateral dependent loans, we may utilize values obtained through purchase and sale agreements, legitimate indications of interest,
negotiated short sales, realtor price opinions, sale of the note or support from guarantors as the basis for charge-offs. These alternative sources of value are used only if deemed to be more representative of value based on updated information
regarding collateral resolution. In addition, if an appraisal is not deemed current, a discount to appraised value may be utilized. Any adjustments from appraised value to net value are detailed and justified in an impairment analysis, which is
reviewed and approved by the Company’s Managed Assets Division.  Restructured Loans 
At December 31, 2011, the Company had $130.5 million in loans with modified terms. The $130.5 million in modified loans represents
168 credit relationships in which economic concessions were granted to certain borrowers to better align the terms of their loans with their current ability to pay. These actions were taken on a case-by-case basis working with these borrowers to
find a concession that would assist them in retaining their businesses or their homes and attempt to keep these loans in an accruing status for the Company. Typical concessions include reduction of the loan interest rate to a rate considered lower
than market and other modification of terms including forgiveness of all or a portion of the loan balance, extension of the maturity date, and/or modifications from principal and interest payments to interest-only payments for a certain period.
 Subsequent to its restructuring, any restructured loan with a below market rate concession that becomes nonaccrual, will
remain classified by the Company as a restructured loan for its duration and will be included in the Company’s nonperforming loans. Each restructured loan was reviewed for impairment at December 31, 2011 and approximately $2.9 million of
impairment was present and appropriately reserved for through the Company’s normal reserving methodology in the Company’s allowance for loan losses.  The table below presents a summary of restructured loans for the respective periods, presented by loan category and accrual status: 
 












 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 


  
  
  
 

 Accruing: 
  



  




 Commercial
  
$
9,270
  
  
$
14,163
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
104,864
  
  
 
65,419
  

 Residential real estate and other
  
 
5,786
  
  
 
1,562
  


  
  
  
 

 Total accrual
  
$
119,920
  
  
$
81,144
  


  
  
  
 





 Non-accrual: (1) 
  



  




 Commercial
  
$
1,564
  
  
$
3,865
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
7,932
  
  
 
15,947
  

 Residential real estate and other
  
 
1,102
  
  
 
234
  


  
  
  
 

 Total non-accrual
  
$
10,598
  
  
$
20,046
  


  
  
  
 





 Total restructured loans: 
  



  




 Commercial
  
$
10,834
  
  
$
18,028
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
112,796
  
  
 
81,366
  

 Residential real estate and other
  
 
6,888
  
  
 
1,796
  


  
  
  
 

 Total restructured loans
  
$
130,518
  
  
$
101,190
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 Included in
total non-performing loans. 
  75 


Restructured Loans Rollforward 
The table below presents a summary of restructured loans as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and shows the changes in the
balance during those periods:   




















 Year Ended December 31, 2011 (Dollars in thousands)
  
Commercial
 
 
CommercialReal-estate
 
 
ResidentialReal-estateand Other
 
 
Total
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
18,028
  
 
$
81,366
  
 
$
1,796
  
 
$
101,190
  

 Additions during the period
  
 
6,956
  
 
 
87,656
  
 
 
5,916
  
 
 
100,528
  

 Reductions:
  



 



 



 




 Charge-offs
  
 
(5,959
) 
 
 
(16,396
) 
 
 
(753
) 
 
 
(23,108
) 

 Transferred to OREO
  
 
—
  
 
 
(8,288
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(8,288
) 

 Removal of restructured loan status (1)
  
 
(6,588
) 
 
 
(9,537
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16,125
) 

 Payments received
  
 
(1,603
) 
 
 
(22,005
) 
 
 
(71
) 
 
 
(23,679
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at period end 
  
$
10,834
  
 
$
112,796
  
 
$
6,888
  
 
$
130,518
  


  
  
  
 
  




















 Year Ended December 31, 2010 (Dollars in thousands)]
  
Commercial
 
 
CommercialReal-estate
 
 
ResidentialReal-estateand Other
 
 
Total
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
10,946
  
 
$
21,252
  
 
$
234
  
 
$
32,432
  

 Additions during the period
  
 
14,916
  
 
 
79,715
  
 
 
3,269
  
 
 
97,900
  

 Reductions:
  



 



 



 




 Charge-offs
  
 
—
  
 
 
(5,393
) 
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
(5,428
) 

 Transferred to OREO
  
 
(94
) 
 
 
(3,695
) 
 
 
(1,665
) 
 
 
(5,454
) 

 Removal of restructured loan status (1)
  
 
(5,726
) 
 
 
(5,000
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(10,728
) 

 Payments received
  
 
(2,014
) 
 
 
(5,513
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(7,532
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at period end
  
$
18,028
  
 
$
81,366
  
 
$
1,796
  
 
$
101,190
  


  
  
  
 
  




















 Year Ended December 31, 2009 (Dollars in thousands)
  
Commercial
 
  
CommercialReal-estate
 
  
ResidentialReal-estateand Other
 
  
Total
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Additions during the period
  
 
10,946
  
  
 
21,252
  
  
 
234
  
  
 
32,432
  

 Reductions:
  



  



  



  




 Charge-offs
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Transferred to OREO
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Removal of restructured loan status (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Payments received
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at period end
  
$
10,946
  
  
$
21,252
  
  
$
234
  
  
$
32,432
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 Loan was previously classified as a troubled debt restructuring and subsequently performed in compliance with the loan’s modified terms for a period of six months (including over a calendar year-end)
at a modified interest rate which represented a market rate at the time of restructuring. Per our TDR policy, the TDR classification is removed. 
  76 


Potential Problem Loans  Management believes that any loan where there are serious doubts as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with the present loan repayment terms should be identified as a non-performing loan and
should be included in the disclosure of “Past Due Loans and Non-performing Assets.” Accordingly, at the periods presented in this report, the Company has no potential problem loans as defined by SEC regulations. 
Loan Concentrations 
Loan concentrations are considered to exist when there are amounts loaned to multiple borrowers engaged in similar activities which would
cause them to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. The Company had no concentrations of loans exceeding 10% of total loans at December 31, 2011, except for loans included in the specialty finance operating segment, which are
diversified throughout the United States.  Other Real Estate Owned 
The table below presents a summary of other real estate owned, excluding covered other real estate owned, as of December 31, 2011
and shows the activity for the respective periods and the balance for each property type:   












 
  
Year Ended
 


  
  
  
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
71,214
  
 
$
80,163
  

 Disposal/resolved
  
 
(35,071
) 
 
 
(63,562
) 

 Transfers in at fair value, less costs to sell
  
 
59,669
  
 
 
63,615
  

 Additions from acquisition
  
 
7,430
  
 
 
—
  

 Fair value adjustments
  
 
(16,719
) 
 
 
(9,002
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of period
  
$
86,523
  
 
$
71,214
  


  
  
  
 
  












 
  
Period End
 


  
  
  
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 


  
  
  
 

 Residential real estate
  
$
7,327
  
  
$
5,694
  

 Residential real estate development
  
 
19,923
  
  
 
17,781
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
59,273
  
  
 
47,739
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
86,523
  
  
$
71,214
  


  
  
  
 

  77 


Liquidity and Capital Resources 
The Company and the banks are subject to various regulatory capital requirements established by the federal banking agencies that take
into account risk attributable to balance sheet and off-balance sheet activities. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory — and possibly discretionary — actions by regulators, that if undertaken could
have a direct material effect on the Company’s financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company and the banks must meet specific capital guidelines that involve
quantitative measures of the Company’s assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines require bank holding companies to maintain a
minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8.0%, of which at least 4.0% must be in the form of Tier 1 Capital. The Federal Reserve also requires a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total assets of 3.0% for strong
bank holding companies (those rated a composite “1” under the Federal Reserve’s rating system). For all other bank holding companies, the minimum ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total assets is 4.0%. In addition the Federal Reserve
continues to consider the Tier 1 leverage ratio in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.  The following table
summarizes the capital guidelines for bank holding companies, as well as certain ratios relating to the Company’s equity and assets as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 
 
























  
  
MinimumRatios
 
 
 WellCapitalized
Ratios
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Tier 1 Leverage Ratio
  
 
4.0
% 
 
 
5.0
% 
 
 
9.4
% 
 
 
10.1
% 
 
 
9.3
% 

 Tier 1 Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets
  
 
4.0
% 
 
 
6.0
% 
 
 
11.8
% 
 
 
12.5
% 
 
 
11.0
% 

 Total Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets
  
 
8.0
% 
 
 
10.0
% 
 
 
13.0
% 
 
 
13.8
% 
 
 
12.4
% 

 Total average equity to toal average assets
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
10.0
% 
 
 
10.0
% 
 
 
9.5
% 

 Dividend payout ratio
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
10.8
% 
 
 
17.6
% 
 
 
12.4
% 
 As reflected in the table, each of the Company’s capital ratios at December 31, 2011, exceeded
the well-capitalized ratios established by the Federal Reserve. Refer to Note 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the capital positions of the banks. 
The Company’s principal sources of funds at the holding company level are dividends from its subsidiaries, borrowings under its loan
agreement with unaffiliated banks and proceeds from the issuances of subordinated debt and additional equity. Refer to Notes 12, 14, 16 and 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company’s notes payable,
subordinated notes, junior subordinated debentures and shareholders’ equity, respectively. Management is committed to maintaining the Company’s capital levels above the “Well Capitalized” levels established by the Federal Reserve
for bank holding companies.  In March 2010, the Company issued through a public offering a total of 6.67 million shares
of its common stock at $33.25 per share. Net proceeds to the Company totaled $210.3 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. Additionally, in December 2010, the Company sold 3.66 million
shares of common stock at $30.00 per share and 4.6 million 7.50% tangible equity units (“TEU”) at a public offering price of $50.00 per unit. The Company received net proceeds of $104.8 million and $222.7 million from the common stock
and TEU, respectively, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. Each tangible equity unit is a unit composed of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a junior subordinated amortizing note due
December 15, 2013. For additional discussion of these offerings and the terms of the TEUs, see Note 24 — Shareholders’ Equity and Note 15 — Other Borrowings. 
On December 22, 2010, the Company repurchased all 250,000 shares of its Series B Preferred Stock, which it issued to the Treasury in
December 2008 under the TARP CPP. The Series B Preferred Stock and the accompanying warrant to purchase Wintrust common stock were the only securities sold by the Company to the federal government. 
The Company’s Board of Directors approved the first semiannual dividend on the Company’s common stock in January 2000 and has
continued to approve semi-annual dividends since that time. The payment of dividends is also subject to statutory restrictions and restrictions arising under the terms of our 8.00% non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock, Series A, the
Company’s trust preferred securities offerings, the Company’s 7.5% tangible equity units and under certain financial covenants in the Company’s credit agreement. Under the terms of the Company’s revolving credit facility entered
into on October 30, 2009 (and amended on October 28, 2011), the Company is prohibited from paying dividends on any equity interests, including its common stock and preferred stock, if such payments would cause the Company to be in default under
its credit facility. Prior to the repurchase of the Series B Preferred Stock, noted above, declarations of dividends were also limited by the terms of Series B Preferred Stock. In January and July of 2010 and 2011, Wintrust declared semi-annual cash
dividends of $0.09 per common share. Taking into account the limitations on the payment of dividends, the final determination of timing, amount and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and will depend on
the Company’s earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other relevant factors.  Banking laws impose
restrictions upon the amount of dividends that can be paid to the holding company by the banks. Based on these laws, the banks could, subject to minimum capital requirements, declare dividends to the Company without obtaining regulatory approval in
an amount not exceeding (a) undivided profits, and (b) the amount of net income reduced by dividends paid for the current and prior two years. 
  78 


At January 1, 2012, subject to minimum capital requirements at the banks, approximately
$94.7 million was available as dividends from the banks without prior regulatory approval and without compromising the banks’ well-capitalized positions.  Since the banks are required to maintain their capital at the well-capitalized level (due to the Company being a financial holding company), funds otherwise available as dividends from the banks are
limited to the amount that would not reduce any of the banks’ capital ratios below the well-capitalized level. During 2011, 2010 and 2009 the subsidiaries paid dividends to Wintrust totaling 
$27.8 million, $11.5 million and $100.0 million, respectively.  Liquidity management at the banks involves planning to meet anticipated funding needs at a reasonable cost. Liquidity management is guided by policies, formulated and monitored by the Company’s
senior management and each Bank’s asset/liability committee, which take into account the marketability of assets, the sources and stability of funding and the level of unfunded commitments. The banks’ principal sources of funds are
deposits, short-term borrowings and capital contributions from the holding company. In addition, the banks are eligible to borrow under Federal Home Loan Bank advances and certain banks are eligible to borrow at the Federal Reserve Bank Discount
Window, another source of liquidity.  Core deposits are the most stable source of liquidity for community banks due to the
nature of long-term relationships generally established with depositors and the security of deposit insurance provided by the FDIC. Core deposits are generally defined in the industry as total deposits less time deposits with balances greater than
$100,000. Due to the affluent nature of many of the communities that the Company serves, management believes that many of its time deposits with balances in excess of $100,000 are also a stable source of funds. Standard deposit insurance coverage is
$250,000 per depositor per insured bank, for each account ownership category. In addition, each of our subsidiary banks elected to participate in the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (TAGP), which provides unlimited FDIC insurance coverage for
the entire account balance in exchange for an additional insurance premium to be paid by the depository institution for accounts with balances in excess of the permanent FDIC insurance limit of $250,000. This additional insurance coverage expired on
December 31, 2010. Effective on that same date, the Dodd-Frank Act provided unlimited deposit insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing deposits through December 31, 2012. This unlimited insurance coverage is separate from, and in
addition to, the insurance coverage provided to a depositor’s other accounts at a bank.  While the Company obtains a
portion of its total deposits through brokered deposits, the Company does so primarily as an asset-liability management tool to assist in the management of interest rate risk, and the Company does not consider brokered deposits to be a vital
component of its current liquidity resources. Historically, brokered deposits have represented a small component of the Company’s total deposits outstanding, as set forth in the table below: 
 
























 
  
December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Total deposits
  
$
12,307,267
  
 
 
10,803,673
  
 
 
9,917,074
  
 
 
8,376,750
  
 
 
7,471,441
  

 Brokered Deposits (1) 
  
 
616,071
  
 
 
639,687
  
 
 
927,722
  
 
 
800,042
  
 
 
505,069
  

 Brokered deposits as a percentage of total deposits (1) 
  
 
5.0
% 
 
 
5.9
% 
 
 
9.4
% 
 
 
9.6
% 
 
 
6.8
% 
  


(1)
 Brokered Deposits include certificates of deposit obtained through deposit brokers, deposits received through the Certificate of Deposit Account
Registry Program (“CDARS”), as well as wealth management deposits of brokerage customers from unaffiliated companies which have been placed into deposit accounts of the banks. 
The banks routinely accept deposits from a variety of municipal entities. Typically, these municipal entities require that banks pledge
marketable securities to collateralize these public deposits. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the banks had approximately 
$877.5 million and $875.7 million, respectively, of securities collateralizing public deposits and other short-term borrowings. Public
deposits requiring pledged assets are not considered to be core deposits, however they provide the Company with a reliable, lower cost, short-term funding source than what is available through many other wholesale alternatives. 
As discussed in Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, in September 2009, the Company’s subsidiary, FIFC, sponsored a
qualifying special-purpose entity (“QSPE”) that issued $600 million in aggregate principal amount of its Notes. The QSPE’s obligations under the Notes are secured by loans made to buyers of property and casualty insurance policies to
finance the related premiums payable by the buyers to the insurance companies for the policies. At the time of issuance, the Notes were eligible collateral under TALF and certain investors therefore received non-recourse funding from the New York
Fed in order to purchase the Notes. As a result, FIFC believes it received greater proceeds at lower interest rates from the securitization than it otherwise would have received in a non-TALF-eligible transaction. 
Other than as discussed in this section, the Company is not aware of any known trends, commitments, events, regulatory recommendations or
uncertainties that would have any material adverse effect on the Company’s capital resources, operations or liquidity. 
  79 


CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
 The Company has various financial obligations, including contractual obligations and commitments that may require future
cash payments.  Contractual Obligations. The following table presents, as of December 31, 2011, significant fixed
and determinable contractual obligations to third parties by payment date. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in the referenced note to the Consolidated Financial Statements: 
 




























 
  
 
 
  
Payments Due in
 

 (Dollars in thousands)
  
NoteReference
 
  
 One year or less
 
  
From one tothree years
 
  
From threeto five years
 
  
Over fiveyears
 
  
Total
 


  
  
  
 

 Deposits (1) 
  
 
11
  
  
$
10,664,128
  
  
 
1,239,609
  
  
 
399,252
  
  
 
4,278
  
  
 
12,307,267
  

 Notes Payable 
  
 
12
  
  
 
50,729
  
  
 
729
  
  
 
1,364
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
52,822
  

 FHLB Advances (1) (2) 
  
 
13
  
  
 
60,000
  
  
 
259,481
  
  
 
120,000
  
  
 
35,000
  
  
 
474,481
  

 Subordinated Notes 
  
 
14
  
  
 
15,000
  
  
 
15,000
  
  
 
5,000
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
35,000
  

 Other borrowings 
  
 
15
  
  
 
154,232
  
  
 
889,521
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,043,753
  

 Junior Subordinated debentures 
  
 
16
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
249,493
  
  
 
249,493
  

 Operating leases 
  
 
17
  
  
 
4,189
  
  
 
7,302
  
  
 
5,860
  
  
 
9,011
  
  
 
26,362
  

 Purchase obligations (3) 
  
 
 
 
  
 
22,249
  
  
 
24,035
  
  
 
14,472
  
  
 
113
  
  
 
60,869
  

 Total 
  
 
 
 
  
$
10,970,527
  
  
 
2,435,677
  
  
 
545,948
  
  
 
297,895
  
  
 
14,250,047
  
  


(1)
 Excludes basis adjustment for purchase accounting valuations. 
 


(2)
 Certain advances provide the FHLB with call dates which are not reflected in the above table. 
 


(3)
 Purchase obligations presented above primarily relate to certain contractual obligations for services related to the construction of facilities,
data processing and the outsourcing of certain operational activities.  The Company also enters into
derivative contracts under which the Company is required to either receive cash from or pay cash to counterparties depending on changes in interest rates. Derivative contracts are carried at fair value representing the net present value of expected
future cash receipts or payments based on market rates as of the balance sheet date. Because the derivative assets and liabilities recorded on the balance sheet at December 31, 2011 do not represent the amounts that may ultimately be paid under
these contracts, these assets and liabilities are not included in the table of contractual obligations presented above. Commitments.  The following table presents a summary of the amounts and expected maturities of significant commitments as of December 31, 2011. Further information on these commitments is included in Note 21 of
the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
























 (Dollars in thousands)
  
One year orless
 
  
From one tothree years
 
  
From threeto five years
 
  
Overfive years
 
  
Total
 


  
  
  
 

 Commitment type:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial, commercial real estate and construction 
  
$
1,257,581
  
  
 
517,422
  
  
 
119,171
  
  
 
37,603
  
  
 
1,931,777
  

 Residential real estate 
  
 
272,885
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
272,885
  

 Revolving home equity lines of credit 
  
 
762,230
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
762,230
  

 Letters of credit 
  
 
132,374
  
  
 
47,330
  
  
 
17,645
  
  
 
1,659
  
  
 
199,008
  

 Commitments to sell mortgage loans 
  
 
591,530
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
591,530
  
 Contingencies. The Company enters into residential mortgage loan sale agreements with investors in
the normal course of business. These agreements usually require certain representations concerning credit information, loan documentation, collateral and insurability. Investors have requested the Company to indemnify them against losses on certain
loans or to repurchase loans which the investors believe do not comply with applicable representations. Upon completion of its own investigation, the Company generally repurchases or provides indemnification on certain loans. Indemnification
requests are generally received within two years subsequent to sale. Management maintains a liability for estimated losses on loans expected to be repurchased or on which indemnification is expected to be provided and regularly evaluates the
adequacy of this recourse liability based on trends in repurchase and indemnification requests, actual loss experience, known and inherent risks in the loans and current economic conditions. At December 31, 2011 the liability for estimated
losses on repurchase and indemnification was $2.5 million and was included in other liabilities on the balance sheet. 
  80 




ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS  Effects of Inflation  A banking organization’s assets and liabilities
are primarily monetary. Changes in the rate of inflation do not have as great an impact on the financial condition of a bank as do changes in interest rates. Changes in inflation are not expected to have a material impact on the Company. 
Asset-Liability Management  As an ongoing part of its financial strategy, the Company attempts to manage the impact of fluctuations in market interest rates on net interest income. This effort entails providing a reasonable balance
between interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and maintenance of yield. An analysis of the Company’s asset and liability structure provides the best indication of how the organization is positioned to respond to changing interest
rates. Asset-liability management policies are established and monitored by management in conjunction with the boards of directors of the banks, subject to general oversight by the Risk Management Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors.
The policies establish guidelines for acceptable limits on the sensitivity of the market value of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates.  Interest rate risk arises when the maturity or re-pricing periods and interest rate indices of the interest earning assets, interest bearing liabilities, and derivative financial instruments are
different. It is the risk that changes in the level of market interest rates will result in disproportionate changes in the value of, and the net earnings generated from, the Company’s interest earning assets, interest bearing liabilities and
derivative financial instruments. The Company continuously monitors not only the organization’s current net interest margin, but also the historical trends of these margins. In addition, management attempts to identify potential adverse changes
in net interest income in future years as a result interest rate fluctuations by performing simulation analysis of various interest rate environments. If a potential adverse change in net interest margin and/or net income is identified, management
would take appropriate actions with its asset-liability structure to mitigate these potentially adverse situations. Please refer to Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
for further discussion of the net interest margin.  Since the Company’s primary source of interest bearing liabilities is
from customer deposits, the Company’s ability to manage the types and terms of such deposits may be somewhat limited by customer preferences and local competition in the market areas in which the banks operate. The rates, terms and interest
rate indices of the Company’s interest earning assets result primarily from the Company’s strategy of investing in loans and securities that permit the Company to limit its exposure to interest rate risk, together with credit risk, while
at the same time achieving an acceptable interest rate spread.  The Company’s exposure to interest rate risk is reviewed
on a regular basis by management and the Risk Management Committees of the boards of directors of the banks and the Company. The objective is to measure the effect on net income and to adjust balance sheet and derivative financial instruments to
minimize the inherent risk while at the same time maximize net interest income.  Management measures its exposure to changes
in interest rates using many different interest rate scenarios. One interest rate scenario utilized is to measure the percentage change in net interest income assuming a ramped increase and decrease of 100 and 200 basis points that occurs in equal
steps over a twelve-month time horizon. Utilizing this measurement concept, the interest rate risk of the Company, expressed as a percentage change in net interest income over a one-year time horizon due to changes in interest rates, at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, is as follows:   




















 
  
+200BasisPoints
 
 
+100BasisPoints
 
 
-100BasisPoints
 
 
-200BasisPoints
 


  
  
  
 

 Percentage change in net interest income due to a ramped 100 and 200 basis point shift in the yield curve:
  



 



 



 




 December 31, 2011
  
 
7.7
% 
 
 
3.2
% 
 
 
(3.4
)% 
 
 
(8.8)%
  

 December 31, 2010 
  
 
5.3
% 
 
 
2.4
% 
 
 
(2.9
)% 
 
 
(7.0)%
  
 This simulation analysis is based upon actual cash flows and repricing characteristics for balance sheet
instruments and incorporates management’s projections of the future volume and pricing of each of the product lines offered by the Company as well as other pertinent assumptions. Actual results may differ from these simulated results due to
timing, magnitude, and frequency of interest rate changes as well as changes in market conditions and management strategies. 
  81 


One method utilized by financial institutions to manage interest rate risk is to enter into
derivative financial instruments. A derivative financial instrument includes interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, futures, forwards, option contracts and other financial instruments with similar characteristics. Additionally, the
Company enters into commitments to fund certain mortgage loans (interest rate locks) to be sold into the secondary market and forward commitments for the future delivery of mortgage loans to third party investors. See Note 22 of the Financial
Statements presented under Item 8 of this report for further information on the Company’s derivative financial instruments.  During 2011 and 2010, the Company entered into certain covered call option transactions related to certain securities held by the Company. The Company uses these option transactions (rather than entering
into other derivative interest rate contracts, such as interest rate floors) to increase the total return associated with the related securities. Although the revenue received from these options is recorded as non-interest income rather than
interest income, the increased return attributable to the related securities from these options contributes to the Company’s overall profitability. The Company’s exposure to interest rate risk may be impacted by these transactions. To
mitigate this risk, the Company may acquire fixed rate term debt or use financial derivative instruments. There were no covered call options outstanding as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
  82 


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Wintrust Financial Corporation and subsidiaries  We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of condition of Wintrust Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of
income, changes in shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Wintrust Financial Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Wintrust Financial Corporation and subsidiaries’ internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 29, 2012 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.  /s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
Chicago, Illinois  February 29, 2012 
  83 


WINTRUST FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONDITION 
(In thousands, except per share data) 
 












 
  
December 31,
 


  
  
  
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 


  
  
  
 

 Assets
  



 




 Cash and due from banks
  
$
148,012
  
 
$
153,690
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
  
 
21,692
  
 
 
18,890
  

 Interest-bearing deposits with other banks (balance restricted for securitization investors of $272,592 at December 31, 2011
and $36,620 at December 31, 2010)
  
 
749,287
  
 
 
865,575
  

 Available-for-sale securities, at fair value
  
 
1,291,797
  
 
 
1,496,302
  

 Trading account securities
  
 
2,490
  
 
 
4,879
  

 Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank stock
  
 
100,434
  
 
 
82,407
  

 Brokerage customer receivables
  
 
27,925
  
 
 
24,549
  

 Mortgage loans held-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
306,838
  
 
 
356,662
  

 Mortgage loans held-for-sale, at lower of cost or market
  
 
13,686
  
 
 
14,785
  

 Loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
 
10,521,377
  
 
 
9,599,886
  

 Covered loans
  
 
651,368
  
 
 
334,353
  

 Total loans
  
 
11,172,745
  
 
 
9,934,239
  

 Less: Allowance for loan losses
  
 
110,381
  
 
 
113,903
  

 Less: Allowance for covered loan losses
  
 
12,977
  
 
 
—
  

 Net loans (balance restricted for securitization investors of $411,532 at December 31, 2011 and $646,268 at December 31,
2010)
  
 
11,049,387
  
 
 
9,820,336
  





 Premises and equipment, net
  
 
431,512
  
 
 
363,696
  

 FDIC indemnification asset
  
 
344,251
  
 
 
118,182
  

 Accrued interest receivable and other assets
  
 
444,912
  
 
 
366,438
  

 Trade date securities receivable
  
 
634,047
  
 
 
—
  

 Goodwill
  
 
305,468
  
 
 
281,190
  

 Other intangible assets
  
 
22,070
  
 
 
12,575
  

 Total assets
  
$
15,893,808
  
 
$
13,980,156
  





 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
  



 




 Deposits:
  



 




 Non-interest bearing
  
$
1,785,433
  
 
$
1,201,194
  

 Interest bearing
  
 
10,521,834
  
 
 
9,602,479
  

 Total deposits
  
 
12,307,267
  
 
 
10,803,673
  





 Notes payable
  
 
52,822
  
 
 
1,000
  

 Federal Home Loan Bank advances
  
 
474,481
  
 
 
423,500
  

 Other borrowings
  
 
443,753
  
 
 
260,620
  

 Secured borrowings—owed to securitization investors
  
 
600,000
  
 
 
600,000
  

 Subordinated notes
  
 
35,000
  
 
 
50,000
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
  
 
249,493
  
 
 
249,493
  

 Accrued interest payable and other liabilities
  
 
187,459
  
 
 
155,321
  

 Total liabilities
  
 
14,350,275
  
 
 
12,543,607
  





 Shareholders’ Equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock, no par value; 20,000,000 shares authorized:
  



 




 Series A—$1,000 liquidation value; 50,000 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010
  
 
49,768
  
 
 
49,640
  

 Common stock, no par value; $1.00 stated value; 60,000,000 shares authorized; 35,981,950 shares and 34,864,068 shares issued at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
  
 
35,982
  
 
 
34,864
  

 Surplus
  
 
1,001,316
  
 
 
965,203
  

 Treasury stock, at cost, 3,601 shares and no shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
  
 
(112
) 
 
 
—
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
459,457
  
 
 
392,354
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
(2,878
) 
 
 
(5,512
) 





 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
1,543,533
  
 
 
1,436,549
  

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
15,893,808
  
 
$
13,980,156
  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  84 


WINTRUST FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
(In thousands, except per share data) 
 
















 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 


 
  
  
 

 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 


 
  
  
 

 Interest income
 



  



  




 Interest and fees on loans
 
$
552,938
  
  
$
547,896
  
  
$
465,777
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks
 
 
3,419
  
  
 
5,170
  
  
 
3,574
  

 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
 
 
116
  
  
 
157
  
  
 
271
  

 Securities
 
 
46,219
  
  
 
36,904
  
  
 
55,649
  

 Trading account securities
 
 
44
  
  
 
394
  
  
 
106
  

 Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank stock
 
 
2,297
  
  
 
1,931
  
  
 
1,722
  

 Brokerage customer receivables
 
 
760
  
  
 
655
  
  
 
515
  

 Total interest income
 
 
605,793
  
  
 
593,107
  
  
 
527,614
  

 Interest expense
 



  



  




 Interest on deposits
 
 
87,938
  
  
 
123,779
  
  
 
171,259
  

 Interest on Federal Home Loan Bank advances
 
 
16,320
  
  
 
16,520
  
  
 
18,002
  

 Interest on notes payable and other borrowings
 
 
11,023
  
  
 
5,943
  
  
 
7,064
  

 Interest on secured borrowings—owed to securitization investors
 
 
12,113
  
  
 
12,366
  
  
 
—  
  

 Interest on subordinated notes
 
 
750
  
  
 
995
  
  
 
1,627
  

 Interest on junior subordinated debentures
 
 
16,272
  
  
 
17,668
  
  
 
17,786
  

 Total interest expense
 
 
144,416
  
  
 
177,271
  
  
 
215,738
  

 Net interest income
 
 
461,377
  
  
 
415,836
  
  
 
311,876
  

 Provision for credit losses
 
 
102,638
  
  
 
124,664
  
  
 
167,932
  

 Net interest income after provision for credit losses
 
 
358,739
  
  
 
291,172
  
  
 
143,944
  

 Non-interest income
 



  



  




 Wealth management
 
 
44,517
  
  
 
36,941
  
  
 
28,357
  

 Mortgage banking
 
 
56,942
  
  
 
61,378
  
  
 
68,527
  

 Service charges on deposit accounts
 
 
14,963
  
  
 
13,433
  
  
 
13,037
  

 Gain on sales of commercial premium finance receivables
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,576
  

 Gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, net
 
 
1,792
  
  
 
9,832
  
  
 
(268
) 

 Fees from covered call options
 
 
13,570
  
  
 
2,235
  
  
 
1,998
  

 Gain on bargain purchases
 
 
37,974
  
  
 
44,231
  
  
 
156,013
  

 Trading gains
 
 
337
  
  
 
5,165
  
  
 
26,788
  

 Other
 
 
19,603
  
  
 
18,945
  
  
 
14,619
  

 Total non-interest income
 
 
189,698
  
  
 
192,160
  
  
 
317,647
  

 Non-interest expense
 



  



  




 Salaries and employee benefits
 
 
237,785
  
  
 
215,766
  
  
 
186,878
  

 Equipment
 
 
18,267
  
  
 
16,529
  
  
 
16,119
  

 Occupancy, net
 
 
28,764
  
  
 
24,444
  
  
 
23,806
  

 Data processing
 
 
14,568
  
  
 
15,355
  
  
 
12,982
  

 Advertising and marketing
 
 
8,380
  
  
 
6,315
  
  
 
5,369
  

 Professional fees
 
 
16,874
  
  
 
16,394
  
  
 
13,399
  

 Amortization of other intangible assets
 
 
3,425
  
  
 
2,739
  
  
 
2,784
  

 FDIC insurance
 
 
14,143
  
  
 
18,028
  
  
 
21,199
  

 OREO expenses, net
 
 
26,340
  
  
 
19,331
  
  
 
18,963
  

 Other
 
 
51,858
  
  
 
47,624
  
  
 
42,588
  

 Total non-interest expense
 
 
420,404
  
  
 
382,525
  
  
 
344,087
  

 Income before taxes
 
 
128,033
  
  
 
100,807
  
  
 
117,504
  

 Income tax expense
 
 
50,458
  
  
 
37,478
  
  
 
44,435
  

 Net income
 
$
77,575
  
  
$
63,329
  
  
$
73,069
  

 Preferred stock dividends and discount accretion
 
 
4,128
  
  
 
19,643
  
  
 
19,556
  

 Non-cash deemed preferred stock dividend
 
 
—  
  
  
 
11,361
  
  
 
—  
  

 Net income applicable to common shares
 
$
73,447
  
  
$
32,325
  
  
$
53,513
  

 Net income per common share—Basic
 
$
2.08
  
  
$
1.08
  
  
$
2.23
  

 Net income per common share—Diluted
 
$
1.67
  
  
$
1.02
  
  
$
2.18
  

 Cash dividends declared per common share
 
$
0.18
  
  
$
0.18
  
  
$
0.27
  

 Weighted average common shares outstanding
 
 
35,355
  
  
 
30,057
  
  
 
24,010
  

 Dilutive potential common shares
 
 
8,636
  
  
 
1,513
  
  
 
2,335
  

 Average common shares and dilutive common shares
 
 
43,991
  
  
 
31,570
  
  
 
26,345
  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  85 


WINTRUST FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 
































(In thousands)
  
Preferredstock
 
 
Commonstock
 
  
Surplus
 
 
Treasurystock
 
 
Retainedearnings
 
 
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome (loss)
 
 
Totalshareholder’sequity
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
$
281,873
  
 
$
26,611
  
  
$
571,887
  
 
$
(122,290
) 
 
$
318,793
  
 
$
(10,302
) 
 
$
1,066,572
  

 Comprehensive income:
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
73,069
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
73,069
  

 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Unrealized gains on securities, net of reclassification adjustment
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
877
  
 
 
877
  

 Unrealized gains on derivative instruments
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,112
  
 
 
3,112
  

 Comprehensive income
  



 



  



 



 



 



 
 
77,058
  

 Cash dividends declared on common stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(6,463
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(6,463
) 

 Dividends on preferred stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16,605
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16,605
) 

 Accretion on preferred stock
  
 
2,951
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,951
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
6,853
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
6,853
  

 Cumulative effect of change in accounting for other-than- temporary impairment
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
309
  
 
 
(309
) 
 
 
—
  

 Common stock issued for:
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Exercise of stock options and warrants
  
 
—
  
 
 
213
  
  
 
3,144
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,357
  

 Restricted stock awards
  
 
—
  
 
 
84
  
  
 
(835
) 
 
 
(443
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,194
) 

 Employee stock purchase plan
  
 
—
  
 
 
119
  
  
 
2,376
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,495
  

 Director compensation plan
  
 
—
  
 
 
52
  
  
 
6,514
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
6,566
  

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
$
284,824
  
 
$
27,079
  
  
$
589,939
  
 
$
(122,733
) 
 
$
366,152
  
 
$
(6,622
) 
 
$
1,138,639
  

 Comprehensive income:
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
63,329
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
63,329
  

 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Unrealized losses on securities, net of reclassification adjustment
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(64
) 
 
 
(64
) 

 Unrealized gains on derivative instruments
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,330
  
 
 
1,330
  

 Comprehensive income
  



 



  



 



 



 



 
 
64,595
  

 Cash dividends declared on common stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,991
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,991
) 

 Dividends on preferred stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16,188
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16,188
) 

 Accretion on preferred stock
  
 
3,455
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,455
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Redemption of Series B preferred stock
  
 
(250,000
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(250,000
) 

 Non-cash deemed preferred stock dividend
  
 
11,361
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(11,361
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
4,640
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,640
  

 Cumulative effect of change in accounting for loan securitizations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,132
) 
 
 
(156
) 
 
 
(1,288
) 

 Issuance of prepaid common stock purchase contracts
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
179,316
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
179,316
  

 Common stock issued for:
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 New issuance, net of costs
  
 
—
  
 
 
7,473
  
  
 
184,684
  
 
 
122,951
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
315,108
  

 Exercise of stock options and warrants
  
 
—
  
 
 
159
  
  
 
3,136
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,295
  

 Restricted stock awards
  
 
—
  
 
 
64
  
  
 
(87
) 
 
 
(218
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(241
) 

 Employee stock purchase plan
  
 
—
  
 
 
41
  
  
 
1,354
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,395
  

 Director compensation plan
  
 
—
  
 
 
48
  
  
 
2,221
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,269
  

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
49,640
  
 
$
34,864
  
  
$
965,203
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
392,354
  
 
$
(5,512
) 
 
$
1,436,549
  

 Comprehensive income:
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Net income
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
77,575
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
77,575
  

 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Unrealized gains on securities, net of reclassification adjustment
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,525
  
 
 
1,525
  

 Unrealized gains on derivative instruments
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,109
  
 
 
1,109
  

 Comprehensive income
  



 



  



 



 



 



 
 
80,209
  

 Cash dividends declared on common stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(6,344
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(6,344
) 

 Dividends on preferred stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,000
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,000
) 

 Accretion on preferred stock
  
 
128
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(128
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Common stock repurchases
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(112
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(112
) 

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
5,692
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,692
  

 Common stock issued for:
  



 



  



 



 



 



 




 Acquisitions
  
 
—
  
 
 
883
  
  
 
25,603
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
26,486
  

 Exercise of stock options and warrants
  
 
—
  
 
 
86
  
  
 
1,504
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,590
  

 Restricted stock awards
  
 
—
  
 
 
57
  
  
 
(132
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(75
) 

 Employee stock purchase plan
  
 
—
  
 
 
67
  
  
 
2,032
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,099
  

 Director compensation plan
  
 
—
  
 
 
25
  
  
 
1,414
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,439
  

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
49,768
  
 
$
35,982
  
  
$
1,001,316
  
 
$
(112
) 
 
$
459,457
  
 
$
(2,878
) 
 
$
1,543,533
  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  86 


WINTRUST FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 


  
  
  
 

(In thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 


  
  
  
 

 Operating Activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
77,575
  
 
$
63,329
  
 
$
73,069
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
  



 



 




 Provision for credit losses
  
 
102,638
  
 
 
124,664
  
 
 
167,932
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
19,469
  
 
 
18,165
  
 
 
20,508
  

 Deferred income tax (benefit) expense
  
 
(639
) 
 
 
(15,972
) 
 
 
51,279
  

 Stock-based compensation expense
  
 
5,692
  
 
 
4,640
  
 
 
6,853
  

 Tax benefit from stock-based compensation arrangements
  
 
129
  
 
 
881
  
 
 
81
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation arrangements
  
 
(306
) 
 
 
(1,354
) 
 
 
(981
) 

 Net amortization of premium on securities
  
 
4,434
  
 
 
8,910
  
 
 
1,729
  

 Mortgage servicing rights fair value change and amortization, net
  
 
4,673
  
 
 
2,977
  
 
 
2,031
  

 Originations and purchases of mortgage loans held-for-sale
  
 
(2,545,385
) 
 
 
(3,746,127
) 
 
 
(4,666,506
) 

 Proceeds from sales of mortgage loans held-for-sale
  
 
2,638,162
  
 
 
3,723,773
  
 
 
4,503,982
  

 Originations of premium finance receivables held-for-sale
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,146,342
) 

 Proceeds from sales and securitizations of premium finance receivables held-for-sale
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
462,580
  

 Bank owned life insurance income, net of claims
  
 
(2,569
) 
 
 
(2,404
) 
 
 
(2,044
) 

 Gain on sales of premium finance receivables
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(8,576
) 

 Decrease (increase) in trading securities, net
  
 
2,389
  
 
 
28,895
  
 
 
(29,375
) 

 Net increase in brokerage customer receivables
  
 
(3,376
) 
 
 
(3,678
) 
 
 
(2,970
) 

 Gain on mortgage loans sold
  
 
(41,854
) 
 
 
(73,378
) 
 
 
(52,075
) 

 (Gains) losses on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
(1,792
) 
 
 
(9,832
) 
 
 
268
  

 Gain on bargain purchases
  
 
(37,974
) 
 
 
(44,231
) 
 
 
(156,013
) 

 Loss on sales of premises and equipment, net
  
 
29
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
362
  

 Decrease (increase) in accrued interest receivable and other assets, net
  
 
154,112
  
 
 
141,518
  
 
 
(64,393
) 

 Decrease in accrued interest payable and other liabilities, net
  
 
(9,720
) 
 
 
(15,349
) 
 
 
(2,427
) 

 Net Cash Provided by (Used for) Operating Activities
  
 
365,687
  
 
 
205,444
  
 
 
(841,028
) 

 Investing Activities:
  



 



 




 Proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale securities
  
 
1,483,986
  
 
 
1,032,581
  
 
 
1,423,164
  

 Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities
  
 
1,265,046
  
 
 
710,290
  
 
 
1,273,634
  

 Purchases of available-for-sale securities
  
 
(3,087,864
) 
 
 
(2,016,636
) 
 
 
(2,457,086
) 

 Proceeds from sales and securitizations of premium finance receivables
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
600,000
  

 Net cash received (paid) for acquisitions
  
 
91,571
  
 
 
62,189
  
 
 
(745,916
) 

 Net decrease (increase) in interest-bearing deposits with banks
  
 
140,684
  
 
 
366,099
  
 
 
(902,654
) 

 Net increase in loans
  
 
(772,675
) 
 
 
(706,285
) 
 
 
(38,775
) 

 Purchases of premises and equipment, net
  
 
(79,132
) 
 
 
(30,510
) 
 
 
(18,275
) 

 Net Cash Used for Investing Activities
  
 
(958,384
) 
 
 
(582,272
) 
 
 
(865,908
) 

 Financing Activities:
  



 



 




 Increase in deposit accounts
  
 
385,335
  
 
 
197,614
  
 
 
1,540,308
  

 Increase (decrease) in other borrowings, net
  
 
226,050
  
 
 
13,173
  
 
 
(89,327
) 

 Decrease in Federal Home Loan Bank advances, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
(36,735
) 
 
 
(5,000
) 

 Repayment of subordinated note
  
 
(15,000
) 
 
 
(10,000
) 
 
 
(10,000
) 

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation arrangements
  
 
306
  
 
 
1,354
  
 
 
981
  

 Redemption of Series B preferred stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
(250,000
) 
 
 
—
  

 Issuance of prepaid common stock purchase contracts
  
 
—
  
 
 
179,316
  
 
 
—
  

 Issuance of common stock, net of issuance costs
  
 
—
  
 
 
315,108
  
 
 
—
  

 Issuance of common shares resulting from exercise of stock options, employee stock purchase plan and conversion of common stock
warrants
  
 
3,586
  
 
 
3,956
  
 
 
4,912
  

 Common stock repurchases
  
 
(112
) 
 
 
(218
) 
 
 
(443
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(10,344
) 
 
 
(22,776
) 
 
 
(21,783
) 

 Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities
  
 
589,821
  
 
 
390,792
  
 
 
1,419,648
  

 Net (Decrease) Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents
  
 
(2,876
) 
 
 
13,964
  
 
 
(287,288
) 

 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period
  
 
172,580
  
 
 
158,616
  
 
 
445,904
  

 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period
  
$
169,704
  
 
$
172,580
  
 
$
158,616
  

 Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:
  



 



 




 Cash paid during the year for:
  



 



 




 Interest
  
$
146,982
  
 
$
177,422
  
 
$
218,602
  

 Income taxes, net
  
 
57,474
  
 
 
34,730
  
 
 
8,646
  

 Acquisitions:
  



 



 




 Fair value of assets acquired, including cash and cash equivalents
  
 
1,257,085
  
 
 
673,277
  
 
 
911,023
  

 Value ascribed to goodwill and other intangible assets
  
 
37,198
  
 
 
1,590
  
 
 
1,800
  

 Fair value of liabilities assumed
  
 
1,220,189
  
 
 
730,522
  
 
 
—
  

 Non-cash activities
  



 



 




 Transfer to other real estate owned from loans
  
 
59,669
  
 
 
68,663
  
 
 
112,015
  

 Common stock issued for acquisitions
  
 
27,091
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  87 


(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
The accounting and reporting policies of Wintrust and its subsidiaries conform to generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States and prevailing practices of the banking industry. In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
contained in the consolidated financial statements. Management believes that the estimates made are reasonable; however, changes in estimates may be required if economic or other conditions change beyond management’s expectations.
Reclassifications of certain prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current year presentation. The following is a summary of the Company’s more significant accounting policies. 
Principles of Consolidation  The consolidated financial statements of Wintrust include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated
financial statements.  Earnings per Share  Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the
potential dilution that would occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the earnings of the Company. The
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding is increased by the assumed conversion of outstanding convertible preferred stock and tangible equity unit shares from the beginning of the year or date of issuance, if later, and the number of
common shares that would be issued assuming the exercise of stock options, the issuance of restricted shares and stock warrants using the treasury stock method. The adjustments to the weighted-average common shares outstanding are only made when
such adjustments will dilute earnings per common share.  Business Combinations 
The Company accounts for business combinations under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805, “Business
Combinations” (“ASC 805”). The Company recognizes the full fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, immediately expenses transaction costs and accounts for restructuring plans separately from the business
combination. There is no separate recognition of the acquired allowance for loan losses on the acquirer’s balance sheet as credit related factors are incorporated directly into the fair value of the loans recorded at the acquisition date. The
excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Alternatively, a gain is recorded equal to the amount by which the fair value of assets purchased exceeds the fair
value of liabilities assumed and consideration paid.  Results of operations of the acquired business are included in the
income statement from the effective date of acquisition.  Cash Equivalents 
For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, Wintrust considers cash on hand, cash items in the process of collection,
non-interest bearing amounts due from correspondent banks, federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements with original maturities of three months or less, to be cash equivalents. 
Securities  The Company
classifies securities upon purchase in one of three categories: trading, held-to-maturity, or available-for-sale. Debt and equity securities held for resale are classified as trading securities. Debt securities for which the Company has the ability
and positive intent to hold until maturity are classified as held-to-maturity. All other securities are classified as available-for-sale as they may be sold prior to maturity in response to changes in the Company’s interest rate risk profile,
funding needs, demand for collateralized deposits by public entities or other reasons.  Held-to-maturity securities are stated
at amortized cost, which represents actual cost adjusted for premium amortization and discount accretion using methods that approximate the effective interest method. Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and
losses, net of related taxes, included in shareholders’ equity as a separate component of other comprehensive income. 
Trading account securities are stated at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses from sales and fair value adjustments are
included in other non-interest income.  Declines in the fair value of investment securities available for sale (with certain
exceptions for debt securities noted below) that are deemed to be other-than-temporary are charged to earnings as a realized loss, and a new cost basis for the securities is established. In evaluating other-than-temporary impairment, management
considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the intent and ability of the Corporation to retain its

  88 



investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. Declines in the fair value of debt securities below amortized cost
are deemed to be other-than-temporary in circumstances where: (1) the Corporation has the intent to sell a security; (2) it is more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized
cost basis; or (3) the Corporation does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If the Corporation intends to sell a security or if it is more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the
security before recovery, an other-than-temporary impairment write-down is recognized in earnings equal to the difference between the security’s amortized cost basis and its fair value. If an entity does not intend to sell the security or it is
not more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery, the other-than-temporary impairment write-down is separated into an amount representing credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and an amount related to
all other factors, which is recognized in other comprehensive income.  Interest and dividends, including amortization of
premiums and accretion of discounts, are recognized as interest income when earned. Realized gains and losses on sales (using the specific identification method) and declines in value judged to be other-than-temporary are included in non-interest
income.  Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank Stock 
Investments in Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank stock are restricted as to redemption and are carried at cost. 
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements 
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are generally treated as collateralized
financing transactions and are recorded at the amount at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest. Securities, generally U.S. government and Federal agency securities, pledged as collateral under these financing arrangements
cannot be sold by the secured party. The fair value of collateral either received from or provided to a third party is monitored and additional collateral is obtained or requested to be returned as deemed appropriate. 
Brokerage Customer Receivables  The Company, under an agreement with an out-sourced securities clearing firm, extends credit to its brokerage customers to finance their purchases of securities on margin. The Company receives income from
interest charged on such extensions of credit. Brokerage customer receivables represent amounts due on margin balances. Securities owned by customers are held as collateral for these receivables. 
Mortgage Loans Held-for-Sale  Mortgage loans are classified as held-for-sale when originated or acquired with the intent to sell the loan into the secondary market. Market conditions or other developments may change management’s
intent with respect to the disposition of these loans and loans previously classified as mortgage loans held-for-sale may be reclassified to the loan portfolio.  ASC 825, “Financial Instruments” provides entities with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value and was effective January 1, 2008. The Company elected to
measure, at fair value, new mortgage loans originated by Wintrust Mortgage on or after January 1, 2008. The fair value of the loans is determined by reference to investor prices for loan products with similar characteristics. Changes in fair
value are recognized in mortgage banking revenue.  Mortgage loans held-for-sale not originated by Wintrust Mortgage on or
after January 1, 2008 are carried at the lower of cost or market applied on an aggregate basis by loan type. Fair value is based on either quoted prices for the same or similar loans or values obtained from third parties. Charges related to
adjustments to record the loans at fair value are recognized in mortgage banking revenue. Loans that are transferred between mortgage loans held-for-sale and the loan portfolio are recorded at the lower of cost or market at the date of transfer.
 Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, Allowance for Covered Loan Losses and Allowance for Losses on Lending-Related Commitments
 Loans are generally reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned income. Interest income is recognized
when earned. Loan origination fees and certain direct origination costs are deferred and amortized over the expected life of the loan as an adjustment to the yield using methods that approximate the effective interest method. Finance charges on
premium finance receivables are earned over the term of the loan based on actual funds outstanding, using a method which approximates the effective yield method.  Interest income is not accrued on loans where management has determined that the borrowers may be unable to meet contractual principal and/or interest obligations, or where interest or principal is 90
days or more past due, unless the loans are adequately secured and in the process of collection. Cash receipts on non-accrual loans are generally applied to the principal balance until the remaining balance is considered collectible, at which time
interest income may be recognized when received. 
  89 


The Company maintains its allowance for loan losses at a level believed appropriate by
management to absorb probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and is based on the size and current risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, an assessment of internal problem loan reporting system loans and actual loss experience, changes in
the composition of the loan portfolio, historical loss experience, changes in lending policies and procedures, including underwriting standards and collections, charge-off and recovery practices, changes in experience, ability and depth of lending
management and staff, changes in national and local economic and business conditions and developments, including the condition of various market segments and changes in the volume and severity of past due and classified loans and trends in the
volume of non-accrual loans, troubled debt restructurings and other loan modifications. The allowance for loan losses also includes an element for estimated probable but undetected losses and for imprecision in the credit risk models used to
calculate the allowance. Loans with a credit risk rating of a 6 through 9 are reviewed on a monthly basis to determine if (a) an amount is deemed uncollectible (a charge-off) or (b) it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect
amounts due in accordance with the original contractual terms of the loan (an impaired loan). If a loan is impaired, the carrying amount of the loan is compared to the expected payments to be received, discounted at the loan’s original rate, or
for collateral dependent loans, to the fair value of the collateral. Any shortfall is recorded as a specific reserve. For loans with a credit risk rating of 7 or better, reserves are established based on the type of loan collateral, if any, and the
assigned credit risk rating. Determination of the allowance is inherently subjective as it requires significant estimates, including the amounts and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous
loans based on historical loss experience, and consideration of current environmental factors and economic trends, all of which may be susceptible to significant change. Loan losses are charged off against the allowance, while recoveries are
credited to the allowance. A provision for credit losses is charged to operations based on management’s periodic evaluation of the factors previously mentioned, as well as other pertinent factors. Evaluations are conducted at least quarterly
and more frequently if deemed necessary.  Under accounting guidance applicable to loans acquired with evidence of credit
quality deterioration since origination, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the estimated fair value is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income over the remaining estimated life of the loans, using
the effective-interest method. The difference between contractually required payments at acquisition and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. Changes in the expected cash flows from
the date of acquisition will either impact the accretable yield or result in a charge to the provision for credit losses. Subsequent decreases to expected principal cash flows will result in a charge to provision for credit losses and a
corresponding increase to allowance for loan losses. Subsequent increases in expected principal cash flows will result in recovery of any previously recorded allowance for loan losses, to the extent applicable, and a reclassification from
nonaccretable difference to accretable yield for any remaining increase. All changes in expected interest cash flows, including the impact of prepayments, will result in reclassifications to/from nonaccretable differences. 
In estimating expected losses, the Company evaluates loans for impairment in accordance ASC 310, “Receivables.” A loan is
considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that a creditor will be unable to collect all amounts due pursuant to the contractual terms of the loan. Impaired loans include non-accrual loans, restructured loans
or loans with principal and/or interest at risk, even if the loan is current with all payments of principal and interest. Impairment is measured by estimating the fair value of the loan based on the present value of expected cash flows, the market
price of the loan, or the fair value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell. If the estimated fair value of the loan is less than the recorded book value, a valuation allowance is established as a component of the allowance for loan losses.
 The Company also maintains an allowance for lending-related commitments, specifically unfunded loan commitments and letters
of credit, to provide for the risk of loss inherent in these arrangements. The allowance is computed using a methodology similar to that used to determine the allowance for loan losses. This allowance is included in other liabilities on the
statement of condition while the corresponding provision for these losses is recorded as a component of the provision for credit losses. 
Mortgage Servicing Rights  Mortgage Servicing Rights (“MSRs”) are recorded in the Statement of Condition at fair value in accordance with ASC 860, “Transfers and Servicing.” The Company originates mortgage loans
for sale to the secondary market, the majority of which are sold without retaining servicing rights. There are certain loans, however, that are originated and sold with servicing rights retained. MSRs associated with loans originated and sold, where
servicing is retained, are capitalized at the time of sale at fair value based on the future net cash flows expected to be realized for performing the servicing activities, and included in other assets in the consolidated statements of condition.
The change in the fair value of MSRs is recorded as a component of mortgage banking revenue in non- interest income in the consolidated statements of income. For purposes of measuring fair value, a third party valuation is obtained. This valuation
stratifies the servicing rights into pools based on homogenous characteristics, such as product type and interest rate. The fair value of each servicing rights pool is calculated based on the present value of estimated future cash flows using a
discount rate commensurate with the risk associated with that pool, given current market conditions. Estimates of fair value include assumptions about prepayment speeds, interest rates and other factors which are subject to change over time. Changes
in these underlying assumptions could cause the fair value of MSRs to change significantly in the future. 
  90 


Premises and Equipment  Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
related assets. Useful lives range from two to ten years for furniture, fixtures and equipment, two to five years for software and computer-related equipment and seven to 39 years for buildings and improvements. Land improvements are amortized over
a period of 15 years and leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the improvement or the term of the respective lease. Land and antique furnishings and artwork are not subject to depreciation. Expenditures for
major additions and improvements are capitalized, and maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Internal costs related to the configuration and installation of new software and the modification of existing software that provides
additional functionality are capitalized.  Long-lived depreciable assets are evaluated periodically for impairment when events
or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment exists when the expected undiscounted future cash flows of a long-lived asset are less than its carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized for the
difference between the carrying value and the estimated fair value of the asset based on a quoted market price, if applicable, or a discounted cash flow analysis. Impairment losses are recognized in other non-interest expense. 
FDIC Indemnification Asset  In conjunction with FDIC-assisted transactions, the Company entered into loss share agreements with the FDIC. These agreements cover realized losses on loans, foreclosed real estate and certain other
assets. These loss share assets are measured separately from the loan portfolios because they are not contractually embedded in the loans and are not transferable with the loans should the Company choose to dispose of them. Fair values at the
acquisition dates were estimated based on projected cash flows available for loss-share based on the credit adjustments estimated for each loan pool and the loss share percentages. The loss share assets are also separately measured from the related
loans and foreclosed real estate and recorded as FDIC indemnification assets on the Consolidated Statements of Condition. Subsequent to the acquisition date, reimbursements received from the FDIC for actual incurred losses will reduce the loss share
assets. Reductions to expected losses, to the extent such reductions to expected losses are the result of an improvement to the actual or expected cash flows from the covered assets, will also reduce the loss share assets. Additional expected
losses, to the extent such expected losses result in the recognition of an allowance for loan losses, will increase the loss share assets The corresponding accretion is recorded as a component of non-interest income on the Consolidated Statements of
Income. Although these assets are contractual receivables from the FDIC, there are no contractual interest rates.  Other Real Estate Owned
 Other real estate owned is comprised of real estate acquired in partial or full satisfaction of loans and is included in
other assets. Other real estate owned is recorded at its estimated fair value less estimated selling costs at the date of transfer, with any excess of the related loan balance over the fair value less expected selling costs charged to the allowance
for loan losses. Subsequent changes in value are reported as adjustments to the carrying amount and are recorded in other non-interest expense. Gains and losses upon sale, if any, are also charged to other non-interest income or expense, as
appropriate. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, other real estate owned totaled $86.5 million and $71.2 million, respectively.  Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets  Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of net
assets acquired. Other intangible assets represent purchased assets that also lack physical substance but can be distinguished from goodwill because of contractual or other legal rights or because the asset is capable of being sold or exchanged
either on its own or in combination with a related contract, asset or liability. In accordance with accounting standards, goodwill is not amortized, but rather is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when events warrant.
Intangible assets which have finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and also are subject to impairment testing. All of the Company’s other intangible assets have finite lives and are amortized over varying periods not
exceeding ten years.  Bank-Owned Life Insurance  The Company owns BOLI on certain executives. BOLI balances are recorded at their cash surrender values and are included in other assets. Changes in the cash surrender values are included in non-interest
income. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, BOLI totaled $101.0 million and $92.2 million, respectively.  Additionally, in
accordance with applicable accounting standards, the Company recognizes a liability and related compensation costs for endorsement split-dollar insurance arrangements that provide a benefit to an employee that extends to postretirement periods. Upon
adoption of a new accounting standard on January 1, 2008 the Company established an initial liability for postretirement split- dollar insurance benefits by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings of $688,000.

  91 


Derivative Instruments  The Company enters into derivative transactions principally to protect against the risk of adverse price or interest rate movements on the future cash flows or the value of certain assets and liabilities.
The Company is also required to recognize certain contracts and commitments, including certain commitments to fund mortgage loans held-for-sale, as derivatives when the characteristics of those contracts and commitments meet the definition of a
derivative. The Company accounts for derivatives in accordance with ASC 815, “Derivatives and Hedging”, which requires that all derivative instruments be recorded in the statement of condition at fair value. The accounting for changes in
the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and further, on the type of hedging relationship. 
Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or liability
attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of
forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Formal documentation of the relationship between a derivative instrument and a hedged asset or liability, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge
transaction and an assessment of effectiveness is required at inception to apply hedge accounting. In addition, formal documentation of ongoing effectiveness testing is required to maintain hedge accounting. 
Fair value hedges are accounted for by recording the changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument and the changes in the fair
value related to the risk being hedged of the hedged asset or liability on the statement of condition with corresponding offsets recorded in the income statement. The adjustment to the hedged asset or liability is included in the basis of the hedged
item, while the fair value of the derivative is recorded as a freestanding asset or liability. Actual cash receipts or payments and related amounts accrued during the period on derivatives included in a fair value hedge relationship are recorded as
adjustments to the interest income or expense recorded on the hedged asset or liability.  Cash flow hedges are accounted for
by recording the changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument on the statement of condition as either a freestanding asset or liability, with a corresponding offset recorded in other comprehensive income within shareholders’ equity,
net of deferred taxes. Amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest expense in the period or periods the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. 
Under both the fair value and cash flow hedge scenarios, changes in the fair value of derivatives not considered to be highly effective
in hedging the change in fair value or the expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized in earnings as non-interest income during the period of the change.  Derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges according to accounting guidance are reported on the statement of condition at fair value and the changes in fair value are recognized in earnings
as non-interest income during the period of the change.  Commitments to fund mortgage loans (interest rate locks) to be sold
into the secondary market and forward commitments for the future delivery of these mortgage loans are accounted for as derivatives and are not designated in hedging relationships. Fair values of these mortgage derivatives are estimated based on
changes in mortgage rates from the date of the commitments. Changes in the fair values of these derivatives are included in mortgage banking revenue.  Periodically, the Company sells options to an unrelated bank or dealer for the right to purchase certain securities held within the banks’ investment portfolios (“covered call options”).
These option transactions are designed primarily to increase the total return associated with holding these securities as earning assets. These transactions are not designated in hedging relationships pursuant to accounting guidance and,
accordingly, changes in fair values of these contracts, are reported in other non-interest income. There were no covered call option contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
Trust Assets, Assets Under Management and Brokerage Assets  Assets held in fiduciary or agency capacity for customers are not included in the consolidated financial statements as they are not assets of Wintrust or its subsidiaries. Fee income is recognized on an
accrual basis and is included as a component of non-interest income.  Income Taxes 
Wintrust and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income tax return. Income tax expense is based upon income in the consolidated
financial statements rather than amounts reported on the income tax return. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using currently enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to
be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized as an income tax benefit or income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date. 
  92 


Positions taken in the Company’s tax returns may be subject to challenge by the taxing
authorities upon examination. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, uncertain tax positions are initially recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not the positions will be sustained upon examination by the tax
authorities. Such tax positions are both initially and subsequently measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely being realized upon settlement with the tax authority, assuming full knowledge of the position and all
relevant facts. Interest and penalties on income tax uncertainties are classified within income tax expense in the income statement. 
Stock-Based Compensation Plans  In accordance with ASC 718, “Compensation — Stock Compensation”, compensation cost is measured as the fair value of the awards on their date of grant. A Black-Scholes model is utilized to
estimate the fair value of stock options and the market price of the Company’s stock at the date of grant is used to estimate the fair value of restricted stock awards. Compensation cost is recognized over the required service period, generally
defined as the vesting period. For awards with graded vesting, compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.  Accounting guidance requires the recognition of stock based compensation for the number of awards that are ultimately expected to vest. As a result, recognized compensation expense for stock options and
restricted share awards is reduced for estimated forfeitures prior to vesting. Forfeitures rates are estimated for each type of award based on historical forfeiture experience. Estimated forfeitures will be reassessed in subsequent periods and may
change based on new facts and circumstances.  The Company issues new shares to satisfy option exercises and vesting of
restricted shares.  Advertising Costs  Advertising costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.  Start-up Costs
 Start-up and organizational costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. 
Comprehensive Income 
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income includes unrealized gains and
losses on securities available-for-sale, net of deferred taxes, and adjustments related to cash flow hedges, net of deferred taxes.  Stock
Repurchases  The Company periodically repurchases shares of its outstanding common stock through open market purchases or
other methods. Repurchased shares are recorded as treasury shares on the trade date using the treasury stock method, and the cash paid is recorded as treasury stock.  Securitizations  In 2009, the Company completed a securitization of
premium finance receivables — commercial. The securitization was accomplished by transferring the premium finance receivables — commercial to a special purpose entity. Securities were then issued to third-party investors, with the
securities collateralized by the transferred assets. The Company determined the conditions for sale accounting were met. In addition, the Company determined activities of the special purpose entity that acquired the assets were sufficiently
restricted to meet accounting requirements to be a QSPE. As a result, the Company determined the securitization entity did not need to be consolidated, the premium finance receivables — commercial were removed from the Company’s
Consolidated Statement of Condition and a gain on sale was recognized.  The Company’s statement of income beginning
January 1, 2010 no longer reflects securitization income, but instead reports interest income, net charge-offs and certain other income associated with the securitized loan receivables in the same line items in the Company’s statement of
income as non-securitized premium finance receivables-commercial. Additionally, the Company no longer records initial gains on new securitization activity since the transferred loans no longer receive sale accounting treatment. Also, there are no
gains or losses recorded on the revaluation of the interest-only strip receivable as that asset is not recognizable in a transaction accounted for as a secured borrowing.  See Note 6 for additional information on the Company’s securitization accounting. 
  93 


(2) Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
Goodwill Impairment Testing  In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment,” which presents a qualitative approach to test
goodwill for impairment. This ASU provides entities the option to assess qualitative factors to determine if impairment of goodwill exists. If examination of the qualitative factors yields a determination that it is not more likely than not that
impairment exists, then it is not necessary for the Company to perform the two-step impairment test. This guidance is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2011. As this guidance primarily seeks to simplify goodwill
impairment testing, the Company does not expect adoption of this new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.  Presentation of Comprehensive Income  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU
No. 2011-05, “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income,” which amends the presentation formats permitted for reporting other comprehensive income. This ASU no longer allows other comprehensive income to
be presented as part of the statement of changes in stockholder’s equity. Entities must present other comprehensive income and its components in a single statement along with net income or in a separate, consecutive statement of other
comprehensive income. This guidance is effective for fiscal and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011. However, in December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-12 “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Deferral of the Effective
Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05” which deferred the ASU No. 2011-05 provision requiring companies to
present reclassification adjustments for each component of other comprehensive income in both net income and other comprehensive income on the face of the financial statements. This deferral does not change the requirement to present items of net
income, other comprehensive income and total comprehensive income in either a continuous statement or consecutive statements as of the effective date noted above. Upon adoption of ASU No. 2011-05, the Company will present comprehensive income
in accordance with the above guidance.  Amended Guidance for Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, “Fair Value Measurements (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value
Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS,” which amends the language used to describe U.S. GAAP requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amended language seeks
to clarify the application of existing guidance as well as change the measurement and disclosure of a few specific items. The principles changed include measurement of financial instruments that are managed within a portfolio and application of
premiums and discounts in fair value measurement. The new guidance will also require additional disclosures including expanded disclosures for measurements categorized within level three of the fair value hierarchy, disclosures for nonfinancial
assets at fair value and disclosure displaying the fair value hierarchy by level for items in the statement of financial position that are not measured at fair value but for which a fair value is required to be disclosed. The guidance is effective
during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Other than requiring additional disclosures, the adoption of this new guidance will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
Changes to the Effective Control Assessment in Accounting for Transfers  In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-03, “Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements,” which amends the criteria used to
determine when an entity may or may not recognize a sale upon the transfer of financial assets subject to repurchase agreements. The changes presented in this ASU are intended to improve the accounting for these transactions by removing the
criterion requiring the transferor to have the ability to repurchase or redeem the transferred financial assets from the assessment of effective control. The guidance in this update is effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or
after December 15, 2011 and should be applied prospectively. Adoption of this new guidance will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  Credit Quality Disclosures of Financing Receivables and Allowance for Credit Losses  In July 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-20, “Receivables (Topic 310): Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses,” which required
more information in disclosures related to the credit quality of financing receivables and the credit reserves held against them. This guidance required the Company to provide a greater level of disaggregated information about the credit quality of
the Company’s loans and the allowance for loan losses as well as to disclose additional information related to credit quality indicators, past due information, and impaired loans. This ASU also included disclosure requirements for information
related to loans modified in a troubled debt restructuring, however these disclosures were deferred in January 2011 upon FASB’s issuance of ASU No. 2011-01 “Receivables (Topic 310): Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about
Troubled Debt Restructurings in update No. 2010-20” to become effective for reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2011. All other provisions of ASU 2010-20, except for the summary of activity in the allowance for credit
losses by loan portfolio, were effective for the Company’s reporting period ending on or after December 15, 2010. Although not required, the Company disclosed the summary of activity in the allowance for credit losses for the year ending
December 31, 2010. Additional credit quality disclosures are included in our consolidated financial statements to provide disaggregated information with respect to the Company’s loan portfolio and the allowance for loan losses. See
Item 2—Loan Portfolio and Asset Quality for further detail. 
  94 


Determination of a Troubled Debt Restructuring 
In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-02, “Receivables (Topic 310): A Creditor’s Determination of Whether a
Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring,” which sought to clarify guidance used to evaluate troubled debt restructurings resulting in consistent application of U.S. GAAP. The update provided guidance to evaluate what is considered to be
an economic concession as well as circumstances which indicate that a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. The effective periods for application of the amendments in this update were interim and annual periods beginning on or after
June 15, 2011, and should be applied retrospectively to the beginning of the annual period of adoption. As such this new guidance was adopted effective July 1, 2011 and did not result in a significant change to the Company’s troubled
debt restructuring determination process or have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
(3) Available-for-Sale Securities 
A summary of the available-for-sale securities portfolio presenting carrying amounts and gross unrealized gains and
losses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:   




































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
Grossunrealizedgains
 
  
Grossunrealizedlosses
 
 
Fair Value
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
Grossunrealizedgains
 
  
Grossunrealizedlosses
 
 
Fair Value
 

 U.S. Treasury
  
$
16,028
  
  
$
145
  
  
$
 —
  
 
$
16,173
  
  
$
104,418
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
(8,321
) 
 
$
96,097
  

 U.S. Government agencies
  
 
760,533
  
  
 
5,596
  
  
 
(213
) 
 
 
765,916
  
  
 
882,095
  
  
 
2,682
  
  
 
(722
) 
 
 
884,055
  

 Municipal
  
 
57,962
  
  
 
2,159
  
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
60,098
  
  
 
51,493
  
  
 
896
  
  
 
(86
) 
 
 
52,303
  

 Corporate notes and other:
  



  



  



 



  



  



  



 




 Financial issuers
  
 
149,229
  
  
 
1,914
  
  
 
(8,499
) 
 
 
142,644
  
  
 
186,931
  
  
 
3,048
  
  
 
(2,972
) 
 
 
187,007
  

 Other
  
 
27,070
  
  
 
287
  
  
 
(65
) 
 
 
27,292
  
  
 
74,629
  
  
 
330
  
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
74,908
  

 Mortgage-backed: (1)
  



  



  



 



  



  



  



 




 Agency
  
 
206,549
  
  
 
12,078
  
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
218,612
  
  
 
148,693
  
  
 
9,963
  
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
158,653
  

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
29,767
  
  
 
175
  
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
29,939
  
  
 
3,018
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
3,028
  

 Other equity securities
  
 
37,595
  
  
 
48
  
  
 
(6,520
) 
 
 
31,123
  
  
 
40,636
  
  
 
96
  
  
 
(481
) 
 
 
40,251
  

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
1,284,733
  
  
$
22,402
  
  
$
(15,338
) 
 
$
1,291,797
  
  
$
1,491,913
  
  
$
17,025
  
  
$
(12,636
) 
 
$
1,496,302
  
  


(1)
 Consisting entirely of residential mortgage-backed securities, none of which are subprime. 
The following table presents the portion of the Company’s available-for-sale securities portfolio which has gross unrealized losses,
reflecting the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at December 31, 2011:   




























 
  
Continuous unrealizedlosses existing for lessthan 12 months
 
 
Continuous unrealizedlosses existing forgreater than 12 months
 
 
Total
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Fair value
 
  
Unrealizedlosses
 
 
Fair value
 
  
Unrealizedlosses
 
 
Fair value
 
  
Unrealizedlosses
 

 U.S. Treasury
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 U.S. Government agencies
  
 
250,072
  
  
 
(213
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
250,072
  
  
 
(213
) 

 Municipal
  
 
6,958
  
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
6,958
  
  
 
(23
) 

 Corporate notes and other:
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Financial issuers
  
 
56,577
  
  
 
(3,297
) 
 
 
51,742
  
  
 
(5,202
) 
 
 
108,319
  
  
 
(8,499
) 

 Other
  
 
9,562
  
  
 
(65
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
9,562
  
  
 
(65
) 

 Mortgage-backed:
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Agency
  
 
15,484
  
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
15,484
  
  
 
(15
) 

 Non-agency CMOs
  
 
2,720
  
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
2,720
  
  
 
(3
) 

 Other equity securities
  
 
18,880
  
  
 
(6,520
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
18,880
  
  
 
(6,520
) 

 Total
  
$
360,253
  
  
$
(10,136
) 
 
$
51,742
  
  
$
(5,202
) 
 
$
411,995
  
  
$
(15,338
) 
 The following table presents the portion of the Company’s available-for-sale securities portfolio
which has gross unrealized losses, reflecting the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at December 31, 2010: 
 




























 
  
Continuous unrealizedlosses existing for lessthan 12 months
 
 
Continuous unrealizedlosses existing forgreater than 12 months
 
 
Total
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Fair value
 
  
Unrealizedlosses
 
 
Fairvalue
 
  
Unrealizedlosses
 
 
Fair value
 
  
Unrealizedlosses
 

 U.S. Treasury
  
$
96,097
  
  
$
(8,321
) 
 
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  
 
$
96,097
  
  
$
(8,321
) 

 U.S. Government agencies
  
 
258,727
  
  
 
(722
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
258,727
  
  
 
(722
) 

 Municipal
  
 
5,081
  
  
 
(65
) 
 
 
323
  
  
 
(21
) 
 
 
5,404
  
  
 
(86
) 

 Corporate notes and other:
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Financial issuers
  
 
101,172
  
  
 
(1,563
) 
 
 
4,532
  
  
 
(1,409
) 
 
 
105,704
  
  
 
(2,972
) 

 Other
  
 
18,810
  
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
18,810
  
  
 
(51
) 

 Mortgage-backed:
  



  



 



  



 



  




 Agency
  
 
1,253
  
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,253
  
  
 
(3
) 

 Other equity securities
  
 
27,984
  
  
 
(481
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
27,984
  
  
 
(481
) 

 Total
  
$
509,124
  
  
$
(11,206
) 
 
$
4,855
  
  
$
(1,430
) 
 
$
513,979
  
  
$
(12,636
) 

  95 


The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment securities to determine whether
securities are other-than-temporarily impaired considering, among other factors, the nature of the securities, credit ratings or financial condition of the issuer, the extent and duration of the unrealized loss, expected cash flows, market
conditions and the Company’s ability to hold the securities through the anticipated recovery period.  The Company does
not consider securities with unrealized losses at December 31, 2011 to be other-than-temporarily impaired. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell these
investments before recovery of the amortized cost bases, which may be the maturity dates of the securities. The unrealized losses within each category have occurred as a result of changes in interest rates, market spreads and market conditions
subsequent to purchase. Securities with continuous unrealized losses existing for more than twelve months were primarily corporate securities of financial issuers. The corporate securities of financial issuers in this category were comprised of five
fixed-to-floating rate bonds, one floating rate bond and three trust-preferred securities, all of which continue to be considered investment grade. Additionally, a review of the issuers indicated that they have strong capital ratios. 
The following table provides information as to the amount of gross gains and gross losses realized and proceeds received through the
sales of available-for-sale investment securities:   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Realized gains
  
$
1,874
  
 
$
9,951
  
 
 
4,249
  

 Realized losses
  
 
(82
) 
 
 
(119
) 
 
 
(1,910
) 

 Net realized gains
  
$
1,792
  
 
$
9,832
  
 
$
2,339
  

 Other than temporary impairment charges
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,607
) 

 Gains (losses) on available- for-sale securities, net
  
$
1,792
  
 
$
9,832
  
 
$
(268
) 

 Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities, net
  
$
1,265,046
  
 
$
710,290
  
 
$
1,273,634
  
 Net gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities resulted in income tax expense (benefit) included in
total income tax expense of $705,000 in 2011, $3.8 million in 2010 and ($103,000) in 2009.  The amortized cost and fair value
of securities as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, by contractual maturity, are shown in the following table. Contractual maturities may differ from actual maturities as borrowers may have the right to call or repay obligations
with or without call or prepayment penalties. Mortgage-backed securities are not included in the maturity categories in the following maturity summary as actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because the underlying mortgages may
be called or prepaid without penalties:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
Fair Value
 

 Due in one year or less
  
$
121,400
  
  
 
121,662
  
  
 
647,494
  
  
 
647,987
  

 Due in one to five years
  
 
532,828
  
  
 
530,632
  
  
 
309,795
  
  
 
310,663
  

 Due in five to ten years
  
 
95,279
  
  
 
95,508
  
  
 
194,442
  
  
 
185,938
  

 Due after ten years
  
 
261,315
  
  
 
264,321
  
  
 
147,835
  
  
 
149,782
  

 Mortgage-backed
  
 
236,316
  
  
 
248,551
  
  
 
151,711
  
  
 
161,681
  

 Other equity
  
 
37,595
  
  
 
31,123
  
  
 
40,636
  
  
 
40,251
  

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
1,284,733
  
  
 
1,291,797
  
  
 
1,491,913
  
  
 
1,496,302
  
 At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, securities having a carrying value of $1.1 billion
and $876 million, respectively, which include securities traded but not yet settled, were pledged as collateral for public deposits, trust deposits, FHLB advances, securities sold under repurchase agreements and derivatives. At December 31,
2011, there were no securities of a single issuer, other than U.S. Government-sponsored agency securities, which exceeded 10% of shareholders’ equity. 
  96 


(4) Loans 
A summary of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 
 












(Dollars in thousands)
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Balance:
  



 




 Commercial
  
$
2,498,313
  
 
$
2,049,326
  

 Commercial real-estate
  
 
3,514,261
  
 
 
3,338,007
  

 Home equity
  
 
862,345
  
 
 
914,412
  

 Residential real-estate
  
 
350,289
  
 
 
353,336
  

 Premium finance receivables—commercial
  
 
1,412,454
  
 
 
1,265,500
  

 Premium finance receivables—life insurance
  
 
1,695,225
  
 
 
1,521,886
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
64,545
  
 
 
51,147
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
123,945
  
 
 
106,272
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
$
10,521,377
  
 
$
9,599,886
  

 Covered loans
  
 
651,368
  
 
 
334,353
  

 Total loans
  
$
11,172,745
  
 
$
9,934,239
  





 Mix:
  



 




 Commercial
  
 
22
% 
 
 
21
% 

 Commercial real-estate
  
 
31
  
 
 
34
  

 Home equity
  
 
8
  
 
 
9
  

 Residential real-estate
  
 
3
  
 
 
3
  

 Premium finance receivables—commercial
  
 
13
  
 
 
13
  

 Premium finance receivables—life insurance
  
 
15
  
 
 
15
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
1
  
 
 
1
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
1
  
 
 
1
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
 
94
% 
 
 
97
% 

 Covered loans
  
 
6
  
 
 
3
  

 Total loans
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 Certain premium finance receivables are recorded net of unearned income. The unearned income portions of
such premium finance receivables were $34.6 million and $32.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Certain life insurance premium finance receivables attributable to the life insurance premium finance loan acquisition in 2009 as
well as the covered loans acquired in the FDIC-assisted acquisitions during 2010 and 2011 are recorded net of credit and interest-rate discounts. See “Acquired Loan Information at Acquisition,” below. 
Indirect consumer loans include auto, boat and other indirect consumer loans. Total loans, excluding loans acquired with evidence of
credit quality deterioration since origination, include net deferred loan fees and costs and fair value purchase accounting adjustments totaling $13.6 million and $12.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Certain real estate loans, including mortgage loans held-for-sale, and home equity loans with balances totaling approximately $1.8
billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were pledged as collateral to secure the availability of borrowings from certain Federal agency banks. At December 31, 2011, approximately $995.2 million of these pledged loans are included in a
blanket pledge of qualifying loans to the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”). The remaining $829.2 million of pledged loans was used to secure potential borrowings at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window. At December 31, 2011 and
2010 the banks borrowed $474.5 million and $423.5 million, respectively, from the FHLB in connection with these collateral arrangements. See Note 13 – Federal Home Loan Bank Advances for a summary of these borrowings. 
The Company’s loan portfolio is generally comprised of loans to consumers and small to medium-sized businesses located within the
geographic market areas that the banks serve. The premium finance receivables portfolios are made to customers on a national basis and the majority of the indirect consumer loans were generated through a network of local automobile dealers. As a
result, the Company strives to maintain a loan portfolio that is diverse in terms of loan type, industry, borrower and geographic concentrations. Such diversification reduces the exposure to economic downturns that may occur in different segments of
the economy or in different industries.  It is the policy of the Company to review each prospective credit in order to
determine the appropriateness and, when required, the adequacy of security or collateral necessary to obtain when making a loan. The type of collateral, when required, will vary from liquid assets to real estate. The Company seeks to assure access
to collateral, in the event of default, through adherence to state lending laws and the Company’s credit monitoring procedures. 
  97 


Acquired Loan Information at Acquisition — Loans with evidence of credit quality deterioration since
origination  As part of our acquisition of a portfolio of life insurance premium finance loans in 2009 as well as the
FDIC-assisted bank acquisitions in 2010 and 2011, we acquired loans for which there was evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination and we determined that it was probable that the Company would be unable to collect all contractually
required principal and interest payments.  The following table presents the unpaid principal balance and carrying value for
these acquired loans:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
CarryingValue
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
CarryingValue
 

 Bank acquisitions
  
 
866,874
  
  
 
596,946
  
  
 
432,566
  
  
 
331,295
  

 Life insurance premium finance loans acquisition
  
 
632,878
  
  
 
598,463
  
  
 
752,129
  
  
 
695,587
  
 The following table provides estimated details on loans acquired in 2011 as of the date of acquisition:
  




















(Dollars in thousands)
  
The Bank ofCommerce
 
  
 Community First
Bank - Chicago
 
  
FirstChicago
 
  
Elgin StateBank
 

 Contractually required payments including interest
  
$
127,122
  
  
$
22,178
  
  
$
564,346
  
  
$
77,998
  

 Less: Nonaccretable difference
  
 
56,257
  
  
 
6,313
  
  
 
321,117
  
  
 
11,481
  

 Cash flows expected to be collected (1)
  
 
70,865
  
  
 
15,865
  
  
 
243,229
  
  
 
66,517
  

 Less: Accretable yield
  
 
4,414
  
  
 
688
  
  
 
20,132
  
  
 
4,213
  

 Fair value of loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since
origination
  
$
66,451
  
  
$
15,177
  
  
$
223,097
  
  
$
62,304
  
  


(1)
 Represents undiscounted expected principal and interest cash flows at acquisition. 
See Note 5 – Allowance for Loan Losses, Allowance for Losses on Lending-Related Commitments and Impaired Loans for further
discussion regarding the allowance for loan losses associated with loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination at December 31, 2011.  Accretable Yield Activity  Changes in expected cash flows may vary from
period to period as the Company periodically updates its cash flow model assumptions. The factors that most significantly affect the estimates of gross cash flows expected to be collected, and accordingly the accretable yield, include changes in the
benchmark interest rate indices for variable-rate products and changes in prepayment assumptions. The following table provides activity for the accretable yield of loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination.
  




















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
BankAcquisitions
 
 
Life InsurancePremiumFinance Loans
 
 
BankAcquisitions
 
 
Life InsurancePremiumFinance Loans
 

 Accretable yield, beginning balance
  
$
39,809
  
 
$
33,315
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
65,026
  

 Acquisitions
  
 
29,447
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
45,615
  
 
 
—  
  

 Accretable yield amortized to interest income
  
 
(39,171
) 
 
 
(22,109
) 
 
 
(10,695
) 
 
 
(43,931
) 

 Accretable yield amortized to indemnification asset
  
 
(37,888
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Reclassification from non-accretable difference (1)
  
 
163,403
  
 
 
5,215
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,652
  

 Increases in interest cash flows due to payments and changes in interest rates
  
 
17,520
  
 
 
2,440
  
 
 
4,889
  
 
 
10,568
  

 Accretable yield, ending balance
  
$
173,120
  
 
$
18,861
  
 
$
39,809
  
 
$
33,315
  
  


(1)
 Reclassification is the result of subsequent increases in expected principal cash flows. 
  98 


(5) Allowance for Loan Losses, Allowance for Losses on Lending-Related Commitments and Impaired Loans 
The tables below show the aging of the Company’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 




























 As of December 31, 2011 (Dollars in thousands)
  
 Nonaccrual
 
  
 90+ days
and still
accruing
 
  
 60-89
days past
due
 
  
 30-59
days past
due
 
  
 Current
 
  
 Total Loans
 

 Loan Balances:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
16,154
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
7,496
  
  
$
15,797
  
  
$
1,411,004
  
  
$
1,450,451
  

 Franchise
  
 
1,792
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
140,983
  
  
 
142,775
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
180,450
  
  
 
180,450
  

 Community Advantage — homeowners association
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
77,504
  
  
 
77,504
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
709
  
  
 
170
  
  
 
19,518
  
  
 
20,397
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
1,072
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
749
  
  
 
11,026
  
  
 
452,890
  
  
 
465,737
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
78,319
  
  
 
78,319
  

 Leases
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
431
  
  
 
71,703
  
  
 
72,134
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,125
  
  
 
2,125
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
589
  
  
 
74
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
7,758
  
  
 
8,421
  

 Total commercial
  
 
19,018
  
  
 
589
  
  
 
9,028
  
  
 
27,424
  
  
 
2,442,254
  
  
 
2,498,313
  

 Commercial real-estate:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
1,993
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,982
  
  
 
1,721
  
  
 
57,115
  
  
 
65,811
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
2,158
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
150
  
  
 
167,568
  
  
 
169,876
  

 Land
  
 
31,547
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,100
  
  
 
6,772
  
  
 
136,112
  
  
 
178,531
  

 Office
  
 
10,614
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,622
  
  
 
930
  
  
 
540,280
  
  
 
554,446
  

 Industrial
  
 
2,002
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
508
  
  
 
4,863
  
  
 
548,429
  
  
 
555,802
  

 Retail
  
 
5,366
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
5,268
  
  
 
8,651
  
  
 
517,444
  
  
 
536,729
  

 Multi-family
  
 
4,736
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,880
  
  
 
347
  
  
 
305,594
  
  
 
314,557
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
8,092
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
7,163
  
  
 
20,814
  
  
 
1,050,585
  
  
 
1,086,654
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial real-estate (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,198
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
252
  
  
 
49,405
  
  
 
51,855
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
 
66,508
  
  
 
2,198
  
  
 
28,523
  
  
 
44,500
  
  
 
3,372,532
  
  
 
3,514,261
  

 Home equity
  
 
14,164
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,351
  
  
 
3,262
  
  
 
843,568
  
  
 
862,345
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
6,619
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,343
  
  
 
3,112
  
  
 
337,522
  
  
 
349,596
  

 Purchased non-covered residential real estate (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
693
  
  
 
693
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial insurance loans
  
 
7,755
  
  
 
5,281
  
  
 
3,850
  
  
 
13,787
  
  
 
1,381,781
  
  
 
1,412,454
  

 Life insurance loans
  
 
54
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
423
  
  
 
1,096,285
  
  
 
1,096,762
  

 Purchased life insurance loans (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
598,463
  
  
 
598,463
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
138
  
  
 
314
  
  
 
113
  
  
 
551
  
  
 
63,429
  
  
 
64,545
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
233
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
170
  
  
 
1,070
  
  
 
122,393
  
  
 
123,866
  

 Purchased non-covered consumer and other (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
77
  
  
 
79
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
$
114,489
  
  
$
8,382
  
  
$
45,378
  
  
$
94,131
  
  
$
10,258,997
  
  
$
10,521,377
  

 Covered loans
  
 
—
  
  
 
174,727
  
  
 
25,507
  
  
 
24,799
  
  
 
426,335
  
  
 
651,368
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income
  
$
114,489
  
  
$
183,109
  
  
$
70,885
  
  
$
118,930
  
  
$
10,685,332
  
  
$
11,172,745
  
  




























 As of December 31, 2010 (Dollars in thousands)
  
 Nonaccrual
 
  
 90+ days
and still
accruing
 
  
 60-89
days past
due
 
  
 30-59
days past
due
 
  
 Current
 
  
 Total Loans
 

 Loan Balances:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
15,922
  
  
$
478
  
  
$
4,416
  
  
$
9,928
  
  
$
1,280,009
  
  
$
1,310,753
  

 Franchise
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,250
  
  
 
117,238
  
  
 
119,488
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
131,306
  
  
 
131,306
  

 Community Advantage — homeowners association
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
75,542
  
  
 
75,542
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
178
  
  
 
1,000
  
  
 
23,440
  
  
 
24,618
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
417
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
161
  
  
 
2,846
  
  
 
285,555
  
  
 
288,979
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
56,343
  
  
 
56,343
  

 Leases
  
 
43
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
41,498
  
  
 
41,541
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
756
  
  
 
756
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Total commercial
  
 
16,382
  
  
 
478
  
  
 
4,755
  
  
 
16,024
  
  
 
2,011,687
  
  
 
2,049,326
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
10,010
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
96
  
  
 
1,801
  
  
 
84,040
  
  
 
95,947
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
1,820
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,481
  
  
 
128,371
  
  
 
131,672
  

 Land
  
 
37,602
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
6,815
  
  
 
11,915
  
  
 
203,857
  
  
 
260,189
  

 Office
  
 
12,718
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
9,121
  
  
 
3,202
  
  
 
510,290
  
  
 
535,331
  

 Industrial
  
 
3,480
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
686
  
  
 
2,276
  
  
 
493,859
  
  
 
500,301
  

 Retail
  
 
3,265
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,088
  
  
 
3,839
  
  
 
499,335
  
  
 
510,527
  

 Multi-family
  
 
4,794
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,573
  
  
 
3,062
  
  
 
281,525
  
  
 
290,954
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
20,274
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
8,481
  
  
 
15,059
  
  
 
969,272
  
  
 
1,013,086
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial real-estate (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
 
93,963
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
30,860
  
  
 
42,635
  
  
 
3,170,549
  
  
 
3,338,007
  

 Home equity
  
 
7,425
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,181
  
  
 
7,098
  
  
 
897,708
  
  
 
914,412
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
6,085
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,836
  
  
 
8,224
  
  
 
337,191
  
  
 
353,336
  

 Purchased non-covered residential real estate (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial insurance loans
  
 
8,587
  
  
 
8,096
  
  
 
6,076
  
  
 
16,584
  
  
 
1,226,157
  
  
 
1,265,500
  

 Life insurance loans
  
 
180
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
826,119
  
  
 
826,299
  

 Purchased life insurance loans (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
174
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
695,413
  
  
 
695,587
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
191
  
  
 
318
  
  
 
301
  
  
 
918
  
  
 
49,419
  
  
 
51,147
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
252
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
109
  
  
 
379
  
  
 
105,531
  
  
 
106,272
  

 Purchased non-covered consumer and other (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
$
133,065
  
  
$
9,067
  
  
$
46,118
  
  
$
91,862
  
  
$
9,319,774
  
  
$
9,599,886
  

 Covered loans
  
 
—
  
  
 
117,161
  
  
 
7,352
  
  
 
22,744
  
  
 
187,096
  
  
 
334,353
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income
  
$
133,065
  
  
$
126,228
  
  
$
53,470
  
  
$
114,606
  
  
$
9,506,870
  
  
$
9,934,239
  
  


(1)
 Purchased loans represent loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination, in accordance with ASC 310-30.
Loan agings are based upon contractually required payments. 
  99 


Our ability to manage credit risk depends in large part on our ability to properly identify
and manage problem loans. To do so, we operate a credit risk rating system under which our credit management personnel assign a credit risk rating (1 to 10 rating) to each loan at the time of origination and review loans on a regular basis.
 Each loan officer is responsible for monitoring his or her loan portfolio, recommending a credit risk rating for each loan in
his or her portfolio and ensuring the credit risk ratings are appropriate. These credit risk ratings are then ratified by the bank’s chief credit officer and/or concurrence credit officer. Credit risk ratings are determined by evaluating a
number of factors including: a borrower’s financial strength, cash flow coverage, collateral protection and guarantees. 
The Company’s problem loan reporting system automatically includes all loans with credit risk ratings of 6 through 9. This system is
designed to provide an on-going detailed tracking mechanism for each problem loan. Once management determines that a loan has deteriorated to a point where it has a credit risk rating of 6 or worse, the Company’s Managed Asset Division performs
an overall credit and collateral review. As part of this review, all underlying collateral is identified and the valuation methodology is analyzed and tracked. As a result of this initial review by the Company’s Managed Asset Division, the
credit risk rating is reviewed and a portion of the outstanding loan balance may be deemed uncollectible or an impairment reserve may be established. The Company’s impairment analysis utilizes an independent re-appraisal of the collateral
(unless such a third-party evaluation is not possible due to the unique nature of the collateral, such as a closely-held business or thinly traded securities). In the case of commercial real estate collateral, an independent third party appraisal is
ordered by the Company’s Real Estate Services Group to determine if there has been any change in the underlying collateral value. These independent appraisals are reviewed by the Real Estate Services Group and sometimes by independent third
party valuation experts and may be adjusted depending upon market conditions.  Through the credit risk rating process, loans
are reviewed to determine if they are performing in accordance with the original contractual terms. If the borrower has failed to comply with the original contractual terms, further action may be required by the Company, including a downgrade in the
credit risk rating, movement to non-accrual status, a charge-off or the establishment of a specific impairment reserve. If we determine that a loan amount or portion thereof is uncollectible the loan’s credit risk rating is immediately
downgraded to an 8 or 9 and the uncollectible amount is charged-off. Any loan that has a partial charge-off continues to be assigned a credit risk rating of an 8 or 9 for the duration of time that a balance remains outstanding. The Company
undertakes a thorough and ongoing analysis to determine if additional impairment and/or charge-offs are appropriate and to begin a workout plan for the credit to minimize actual losses. 
If, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due to it according to
the contractual terms of the loan agreement, a specific impairment reserve is established. In determining the appropriate charge-off for collateral-dependent loans, the Company considers the results of appraisals for the associated collateral.

  100 


Non-performing loans include all non-accrual loans (8 and 9 risk ratings) as well as loans
90 days past due and still accruing interest, excluding loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination. The remainder of the portfolio not classified as non-performing are considered performing under the contractual
terms of the loan agreement. The following table presents the recorded investment based on performance of loans by class, excluding covered loans, per the most recent analysis at December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 




























 
  
Performing
 
  
Non-performing
 
  
Total
 

 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 
  
December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Loan Balances: 
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
1,434,297
  
  
$
1,294,353
  
  
$
16,154
  
  
$
16,400
  
  
$
1,450,451
  
  
$
1,310,753
  

 Franchise
  
 
140,983
  
  
 
119,488
  
  
 
1,792
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
142,775
  
  
 
119,488
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
180,450
  
  
 
131,306
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
180,450
  
  
 
131,306
  

 Community Advantage—homeowners association
  
 
77,504
  
  
 
75,542
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
77,504
  
  
 
75,542
  

 Aircraft
  
 
20,397
  
  
 
24,618
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
20,397
  
  
 
24,618
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
464,665
  
  
 
288,562
  
  
 
1,072
  
  
 
417
  
  
 
465,737
  
  
 
288,979
  

 Municipal
  
 
78,319
  
  
 
56,343
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
78,319
  
  
 
56,343
  

 Leases
  
 
72,134
  
  
 
41,498
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
43
  
  
 
72,134
  
  
 
41,541
  

 Other
  
 
2,125
  
  
 
756
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,125
  
  
 
756
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial (1)
  
 
8,421
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
8,421
  
  
 
—
  

 Total commercial
  
 
2,479,295
  
  
 
2,032,466
  
  
 
19,018
  
  
 
16,860
  
  
 
2,498,313
  
  
 
2,049,326
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
63,818
  
  
 
85,937
  
  
 
1,993
  
  
 
10,010
  
  
 
65,811
  
  
 
95,947
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
167,718
  
  
 
129,852
  
  
 
2,158
  
  
 
1,820
  
  
 
169,876
  
  
 
131,672
  

 Land
  
 
146,984
  
  
 
222,587
  
  
 
31,547
  
  
 
37,602
  
  
 
178,531
  
  
 
260,189
  

 Office
  
 
543,832
  
  
 
522,613
  
  
 
10,614
  
  
 
12,718
  
  
 
554,446
  
  
 
535,331
  

 Industrial
  
 
553,800
  
  
 
496,821
  
  
 
2,002
  
  
 
3,480
  
  
 
555,802
  
  
 
500,301
  

 Retail
  
 
531,363
  
  
 
507,262
  
  
 
5,366
  
  
 
3,265
  
  
 
536,729
  
  
 
510,527
  

 Multi-family
  
 
309,821
  
  
 
286,160
  
  
 
4,736
  
  
 
4,794
  
  
 
314,557
  
  
 
290,954
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
1,078,562
  
  
 
992,812
  
  
 
8,092
  
  
 
20,274
  
  
 
1,086,654
  
  
 
1,013,086
  

 Purchased non-covered commercial real-estate (1)
  
 
51,855
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
51,855
  
  
 
—
  

 Total commercial real-estate
  
 
3,447,753
  
  
 
3,244,044
  
  
 
66,508
  
  
 
93,963
  
  
 
3,514,261
  
  
 
3,338,007
  

 Home equity
  
 
848,181
  
  
 
906,987
  
  
 
14,164
  
  
 
7,425
  
  
 
862,345
  
  
 
914,412
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
342,977
  
  
 
347,251
  
  
 
6,619
  
  
 
6,085
  
  
 
349,596
  
  
 
353,336
  

 Purchased non-covered residential real estate (1)
  
 
693
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
693
  
  




 Premium finance receivables
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial insurance loans
  
 
1,399,418
  
  
 
1,248,817
  
  
 
13,036
  
  
 
16,683
  
  
 
1,412,454
  
  
 
1,265,500
  

 Life insurance loans
  
 
1,096,708
  
  
 
826,119
  
  
 
54
  
  
 
180
  
  
 
1,096,762
  
  
 
826,299
  

 Purchased life insurance loans (1)
  
 
598,463
  
  
 
695,587
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
598,463
  
  
 
695,587
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
64,093
  
  
 
50,638
  
  
 
452
  
  
 
509
  
  
 
64,545
  
  
 
51,147
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
123,633
  
  
 
106,019
  
  
 
233
  
  
 
253
  
  
 
123,866
  
  
 
106,272
  

 Purchased non-covered consumer and other (1)
  
 
79
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
79
  
  
 
—
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
$
10,401,293
  
  
$
9,457,928
  
  
$
120,084
  
  
$
141,958
  
  
$
10,521,377
  
  
$
9,599,886
  
  


(1)
 Purchased loans represent loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination, in accordance with ASC 310-30.

  101 


A summary of the activity in the allowance for credit losses by loan portfolio (excluding
covered loans) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:   




































 Year Ended December 31, 2011
(Dollars in thousands)
  
Commercial
 
 
CommercialReal-estate
 
 
HomeEquity
 
 
ResidentialReal-estate
 
 
PremiumFinanceReceivable
 
 
IndirectConsumer
 
 
Consumerand Other
 
 
Total,ExcludingCovered Loans
 

 Allowance for credit losses
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Allowance for loan losses at beginning of period
  
$
31,777
  
 
$
62,618
  
 
$
6,213
  
 
$
5,107
  
 
$
6,319
  
 
$
526
  
 
$
1,343
  
 
$
113,903
  

 Reclassification to/from allowance for unfunded lending-related commitments
  
 
1,606
  
 
 
298
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,904
  

 Charge-offs
  
 
(31,951
) 
 
 
(62,698
) 
 
 
(5,020
) 
 
 
(4,115
) 
 
 
(6,892
) 
 
 
(244
) 
 
 
(1,532
) 
 
 
(112,452
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
1,258
  
 
 
1,386
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
6,018
  
 
 
220
  
 
 
150
  
 
 
9,106
  

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
28,547
  
 
 
54,801
  
 
 
6,455
  
 
 
4,026
  
 
 
1,769
  
 
 
143
  
 
 
2,179
  
 
 
97,920
  

 Allowance for loan losses at period end
  
$
31,237
  
 
$
56,405
  
 
$
7,712
  
 
$
5,028
  
 
$
7,214
  
 
$
645
  
 
$
2,140
  
 
$
110,381
  

 Allowance for unfunded lending-related commitments at period end
  
$
45
  
 
$
13,186
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
13,231
  

 Allowance for credit losses at period end
  
$
31,282
  
 
$
69,591
  
 
$
7,712
  
 
$
5,028
  
 
$
7,214
  
 
$
645
  
 
$
2,140
  
 
$
123,612
  

 Individually evaluated for impairment
  
 
3,124
  
 
 
27,007
  
 
 
2,963
  
 
 
992
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
34,111
  

 Collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
28,158
  
 
 
42,584
  
 
 
4,749
  
 
 
4,036
  
 
 
7,214
  
 
 
640
  
 
 
2,120
  
 
 
89,501
  

 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  











 Loans at period end
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
28,288
  
 
$
171,372
  
 
$
15,778
  
 
$
10,792
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
75
  
 
$
233
  
 
$
226,538
  

 Collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
2,461,604
  
 
 
3,291,034
  
 
 
846,567
  
 
 
338,804
  
 
 
2,509,216
  
 
 
64,470
  
 
 
123,633
  
 
 
9,635,328
  

 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality
  
 
8,421
  
 
 
51,855
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
693
  
 
 
598,463
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
79
  
 
 
659,511
  
  




































 Year Ended December 31, 2010
(Dollars in thousands)
  
Commercial
 
 
CommercialReal-estate
 
 
HomeEquity
 
 
ResidentialReal-estate
 
 
PremiumFinanceReceivable
 
 
IndirectConsumer
 
 
Consumerand Other
 
 
Total,ExcludingCovered Loans
 

 Allowance for credit losses
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Allowance for loan losses at beginning of period
  
$
28,012
  
 
$
50,952
  
 
$
9,013
  
 
$
3,139
  
 
$
3,816
  
 
$
1,368
  
 
$
1,977
  
 
$
98,277
  

 Other adjustments
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,943
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,943
  

 Reclassification to/from allowance for unfunded lending-related commitments
  
 
(1,650
) 
 
 
349
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,301
) 

 Charge-offs
  
 
(18,592
) 
 
 
(61,873
) 
 
 
(5,926
) 
 
 
(1,143
) 
 
 
(23,238
) 
 
 
(967
) 
 
 
(1,141
) 
 
 
(112,880
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
1,140
  
 
 
914
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
781
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
3,200
  

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
22,867
  
 
 
72,276
  
 
 
3,102
  
 
 
3,099
  
 
 
23,017
  
 
 
(73
) 
 
 
376
  
 
 
124,664
  

 Allowance for loan losses at period end
  
$
31,777
  
 
$
62,618
  
 
$
6,213
  
 
$
5,107
  
 
$
6,319
  
 
$
526
  
 
$
1,343
  
 
$
113,903
  

 Allowance for unfunded lending-related commitments at period end
  
$
1,650
  
 
$
2,484
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
4,134
  

 Allowance for credit losses at period end
  
$
33,427
  
 
$
65,102
  
 
$
6,213
  
 
$
5,107
  
 
$
6,319
  
 
$
526
  
 
$
1,343
  
 
$
118,037
  

 Individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
7,729
  
 
$
23,366
  
 
$
961
  
 
$
461
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
4
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
32,521
  

 Collectively evaluated for impairment
  
$
25,698
  
 
$
41,736
  
 
$
5,252
  
 
$
4,646
  
 
$
6,319
  
 
$
522
  
 
$
1,343
  
 
$
85,516
  

 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality
  
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  











 Loans at period end
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
21,842
  
 
$
103,763
  
 
$
6,441
  
 
$
3,284
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
9
  
 
$
69
  
 
$
135,408
  

 Collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
2,027,484
  
 
 
3,234,244
  
 
 
907,971
  
 
 
350,052
  
 
 
2,091,799
  
 
 
51,138
  
 
 
106,203
  
 
 
8,768,891
  

 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
695,587
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
695,587
  

  102 


A summary of activity in the allowance for covered loan losses for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:   












 
  
Year Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

  
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
—
  
 
$
—  
  

 Provision for covered loan losses before benefit attributable to FDIC loss share agreements
  
 
23,275
  
 
 
—  
  

 Benefit attributable to FDIC loss share agreements
  
 
(18,620
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 

 Net provision for covered loan losses
  
 
4,655
  
 
 
—  
  

 Increase in FDIC indemnification asset
  
 
18,618
  
 
 
—  
  

 Loans charged-off
  
 
(10,298
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Recoveries of loans charged-off
  
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 

 Net charge-offs
  
 
(10,296
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of period
  
$
12,977
  
 
$
—  
  
 In conjunction with FDIC-assisted transactions, the Company entered into loss share agreements with the
FDIC. Additional expected losses, to the extent such expected losses result in the recognition of an allowance for loan losses, will increase the loss share assets. The allowance for loan losses for loans acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions is
determined without giving consideration to the amounts recoverable through loss share agreements (since the loss share agreements are separately accounted for and thus presented “gross” on the balance sheet). On the Consolidated Statements
of Income, the provision for credit losses is reported net of changes in the amount recoverable under the loss share agreements. Reductions to expected losses, to the extent such reductions to expected losses are the result of an improvement to the
actual or expected cash flows from the covered assets, will reduce the loss share assets. Additions to expected losses will require an increase to the allowance for loan losses, and a corresponding increase to the loss share assets. 
Impaired Loans  A
summary of impaired loans, including restructured loans, is as follows:   












(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Impaired loans (included in non-performing and restructured loans):
  



  




 Impaired loans with an allowance for loan loss required (1)
  
$
115,779
  
  
$
115,381
  

 Impaired loans with no allowance for loan loss required
  
 
110,759
  
  
 
86,893
  


  
  
  
 

 Total impaired loans (2)
  
$
226,538
  
  
$
202,274
  


  
  
  
 





 Allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans
  
$
21,488
  
  
$
30,626
  

 Restructured loans
  
$
130,518
  
  
$
101,190
  

 Reduction of interest income from non-accrual loans
  
$
4,623
  
  
$
2,699
  

 Interest income recognized on impaired loans
  
$
12,470
  
  
$
12,999
  
  


(1)
 These impaired loans require an allowance for loan losses because the estimated fair value of the loans or related collateral is less than the
recorded investment in the loans.   


(2)
 Impaired loans are considered by the Company to be non-accrual loans, restructured loans or loans with principal and/or interest at risk, even if
the loan is current with all payments of principal and interest. 
  103 


The following tables present impaired loans evaluated for impairment by loan class as of December 31,
2011 and 2010:   
























 
  
As of
 
  
For the Year Ended
 

December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands)
  
RecordedInvestment
 
  
Unpaid PrincipalBalance
 
  
RelatedAllowance
 
  
Average RecordedInvestment
 
  
Interest IncomeRecognized
 

 Impaired loans with a related ASC 310 allowance recorded
   
  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
7,743
  
  
$
9,083
  
  
$
2,506
  
  
$
9,113
  
  
$
510
  

 Franchise
  
 
1,792
  
  
 
1,792
  
  
 
394
  
  
 
1,792
  
  
 
122
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Community Advantage—homeowners association
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
785
  
  
 
1,452
  
  
 
178
  
  
 
1,360
  
  
 
81
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Leases
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
1,993
  
  
 
2,068
  
  
 
374
  
  
 
1,993
  
  
 
122
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
3,779
  
  
 
3,779
  
  
 
952
  
  
 
3,802
  
  
 
187
  

 Land
  
 
27,657
  
  
 
29,602
  
  
 
6,253
  
  
 
29,085
  
  
 
1,528
  

 Office
  
 
11,673
  
  
 
13,110
  
  
 
2,873
  
  
 
13,209
  
  
 
709
  

 Industrial
  
 
663
  
  
 
676
  
  
 
159
  
  
 
676
  
  
 
46
  

 Retail
  
 
13,728
  
  
 
13,732
  
  
 
480
  
  
 
13,300
  
  
 
504
  

 Multi-family
  
 
7,149
  
  
 
7,155
  
  
 
1,892
  
  
 
7,216
  
  
 
330
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
20,386
  
  
 
21,337
  
  
 
1,447
  
  
 
21,675
  
  
 
1,027
  

 Home equity
  
 
11,828
  
  
 
12,600
  
  
 
2,963
  
  
 
12,318
  
  
 
652
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
6,478
  
  
 
6,681
  
  
 
992
  
  
 
6,535
  
  
 
220
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Life insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Purchased life insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
31
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
3
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
94
  
  
 
95
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
99
  
  
 
7
  

 Impaired loans with no related ASC 310 allowance recorded
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
17,680
  
  
$
20,365
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
21,841
  
  
$
1,068
  

 Franchise
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Community Advantage—homeowners association
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
287
  
  
 
287
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
483
  
  
 
25
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Leases
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
4,284
  
  
 
4,338
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,189
  
  
 
175
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
9,792
  
  
 
9,792
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
10,249
  
  
 
426
  

 Land
  
 
15,991
  
  
 
23,097
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
19,139
  
  
 
1,348
  

 Office
  
 
9,162
  
  
 
11,421
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
11,235
  
  
 
550
  

 Industrial
  
 
4,569
  
  
 
4,780
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,750
  
  
 
198
  

 Retail
  
 
15,841
  
  
 
15,845
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
15,846
  
  
 
815
  

 Multi-family
  
 
2,347
  
  
 
3,040
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,026
  
  
 
127
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
22,359
  
  
 
25,015
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
24,370
  
  
 
1,297
  

 Home equity
  
 
3,950
  
  
 
4,707
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,784
  
  
 
184
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
4,314
  
  
 
5,153
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,734
  
  
 
191
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Life insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Purchased life insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
44
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
56
  
  
 
6
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
139
  
  
 
141
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
146
  
  
 
12
  








 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
$
226,538
  
  
$
251,230
  
  
$
21,488
  
  
$
247,054
  
  
$
12,470
  

  104 


 
























 
  
As of
 
  
For the Year Ended
 

December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands)
  
RecordedInvestment
 
  
Unpaid PrincipalBalance
 
  
RelatedAllowance
 
  
Average RecordedInvestment
 
  
Interest IncomeRecognized
 

 Impaired loans with a related ASC 310 allowance recorded
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
17,678
  
  
$
19,789
  
  
$
5,939
  
  
$
19,574
  
  
$
982
  

 Franchise
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Community Advantage—homeowners association
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
407
  
  
 
976
  
  
 
140
  
  
 
876
  
  
 
60
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Leases
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
7,978
  
  
 
8,941
  
  
 
710
  
  
 
9,067
  
  
 
621
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
719
  
  
 
719
  
  
 
631
  
  
 
722
  
  
 
37
  

 Land
  
 
26,671
  
  
 
27,424
  
  
 
5,598
  
  
 
28,443
  
  
 
1,611
  

 Office
  
 
13,186
  
  
 
13,723
  
  
 
3,718
  
  
 
13,448
  
  
 
917
  

 Industrial
  
 
2,761
  
  
 
2,761
  
  
 
301
  
  
 
893
  
  
 
31
  

 Retail
  
 
8,635
  
  
 
9,171
  
  
 
1,271
  
  
 
9,150
  
  
 
465
  

 Multi-family
  
 
5,939
  
  
 
6,767
  
  
 
2,062
  
  
 
6,691
  
  
 
327
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
21,755
  
  
 
22,885
  
  
 
7,104
  
  
 
23,310
  
  
 
1,466
  

 Home equity
  
 
6,356
  
  
 
6,553
  
  
 
961
  
  
 
6,494
  
  
 
365
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
3,283
  
  
 
3,283
  
  
 
461
  
  
 
3,288
  
  
 
170
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Life insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Purchased life insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
13
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
1
  

 Impaired loans with no related ASC 310 allowance recorded
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
$
12,407
  
  
$
16,368
  
  
$
157
  
  
$
13,210
  
  
$
971
  

 Franchise
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Mortgage warehouse lines of credit
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Community Advantage—homeowners association
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Aircraft
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Asset-based lending
  
 
10
  
  
 
130
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
121
  
  
 
9
  

 Municipal
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Leases
  
 
43
  
  
 
336
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
491
  
  
 
36
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
6,063
  
  
 
6,138
  
  
 
127
  
  
 
5,927
  
  
 
268
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
1,713
  
  
 
1,713
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
1,715
  
  
 
97
  

 Land
  
 
31,598
  
  
 
43,319
  
  
 
1,035
  
  
 
34,258
  
  
 
2,361
  

 Office
  
 
6,365
  
  
 
6,563
  
  
 
78
  
  
 
6,370
  
  
 
358
  

 Industrial
  
 
3,869
  
  
 
3,868
  
  
 
49
  
  
 
4,086
  
  
 
286
  

 Retail
  
 
6,155
  
  
 
6,155
  
  
 
75
  
  
 
6,153
  
  
 
346
  

 Multi-family
  
 
2,238
  
  
 
4,479
  
  
 
27
  
  
 
2,584
  
  
 
150
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
13,738
  
  
 
15,569
  
  
 
124
  
  
 
14,343
  
  
 
919
  

 Home equity
  
 
1,069
  
  
 
1,142
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
1,119
  
  
 
39
  

 Residential real estate
  
 
1,485
  
  
 
1,486
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
1,478
  
  
 
93
  

 Premium finance receivables
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Life insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Purchased life insurance
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Indirect consumer
  
 
59
  
  
 
67
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
68
  
  
 
7
  

 Consumer and other
  
 
81
  
  
 
81
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
88
  
  
 
6
  

 Total loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans
  
$
202,274
  
  
$
230,419
  
  
$
30,626
  
  
$
213,982
  
  
$
12,999
  
 Average recorded investment in impaired loans for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009
were $247.1 million, $214.0 million, and $164.4 million, respectively. Interest income recognized on impaired loans was $12.5 million, $13.0 million, and $10.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

  105 


Restructured Loans  At December 31, 2011, the Company had $130.5 million in loans with modified terms. The $130.5 million in modified loans represents 168 credit relationships in which economic concessions were granted
to certain borrowers to better align the terms of their loans with their current ability to pay.  The Company’s approach
to restructuring loans is built on its credit risk rating system which requires credit management personnel to assign a credit risk rating to each loan. In each case, the loan officer is responsible for recommending a credit risk rating for each
loan and ensuring the credit risk ratings are appropriate. These credit risk ratings are then reviewed and approved by the bank’s chief credit officer and/or concurrence credit officer. Credit risk ratings are determined by evaluating a number
of factors including a borrower’s financial strength, cash flow coverage, collateral protection and guarantees. The Company’s credit risk rating scale is one through ten with higher scores indicating higher risk. In the case of loans rated
six or worse following modification, the Company’s Managed Assets Division evaluates the loan and the credit risk rating and determines that the loan has been restructured to be reasonably assured of repayment and of performance according to
the modified terms and is supported by a current, well-documented credit assessment of the borrower’s financial condition and prospects for repayment under the revised terms. 
A modification of a loan with an existing credit risk rating of six or worse or a modification of any other credit, which will result in
a restructured credit risk rating of six or worse must be reviewed for TDR classification. In that event, our Managed Assets Division conducts an overall credit and collateral review. A modification of a loan is considered to be a TDR if both
(1) the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty and (2) for economic or legal reasons, the bank grants a concession to a borrower that it would not otherwise consider. The modification of a loan where the credit risk rating is five
or better both before and after such modification is not considered to be a TDR. Based on the Company’s credit risk rating system, it considers that borrowers whose credit risk rating is five or better are not experiencing financial
difficulties and therefore, are not considered TDRs.  TDRs are reviewed at the time of modification and on a quarterly basis
to determine if a specific reserve is needed. The carrying amount of the loan is compared to the expected payments to be received, discounted at the loan’s original rate, or for collateral dependent loans, to the fair value of the collateral.
Any shortfall is recorded as a specific reserve.  All credits determined to be a TDR will continue to be classified as a TDR
in all subsequent periods, unless the borrower has been in compliance with the loan’s modified terms for a period of six months (including over a calendar year-end) and the modified interest rate represented a market rate at the time of a
restructuring. The Managed Assets Division, in consultation with the respective loan officer, determines whether the modified interest rate represented a current market rate at the time of restructuring. Using knowledge of current market conditions
and rates, competitive pricing on recent loan originations, and an assessment of various characteristics of the modified loan (including collateral position and payment history), an appropriate market rate for a new borrower with similar risk is
determined. If the modified interest rate meets or exceeds this market rate for a new borrower with similar risk, the modified interest rate represents a market rate at the time of restructuring. Additionally, before removing a loan from TDR
classification, a review of the current or previously measured impairment on the loan and any concerns related to future performance by the borrower is conducted. If concerns exist about the future ability of the borrower to meet its obligations
under the loans based on a credit review by the Managed Assets Division, the TDR classification is not removed from the loan. 
Each restructured loan was reviewed for impairment at December 31, 2011 and approximately $2.9 million of impairment was present and
appropriately reserved for through the Company’s normal reserving methodology in the Company’s allowance for loan losses. 
  106 


The tables below present a summary of the post-modification balance of loans restructured during the years
ended December, 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, which represent a troubled debt restructuring:   












































Year ended December 31, 2011 
  
Total (1)
 
  
Extension atBelow MarketTerms
 
  
Reduction ofInterest Rate
 
  
Modification toInterest-onlyPayments
 
  
Forgiveness of Debt
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 

 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
 
24
  
  
$
6,956
  
  
 
11
  
  
$
2,273
  
  
 
14
  
  
$
1,933
  
  
 
13
  
  
$
3,780
  
  
 
2
  
  
$
135
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,105
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,105
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,105
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
8
  
  
 
12,140
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
11,673
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
9,402
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
467
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Land
  
 
7
  
  
 
7,971
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
7,971
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2,981
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Office
  
 
9
  
  
 
8,870
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
4,780
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
4,036
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
4,292
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Industrial
  
 
5
  
  
 
5,334
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5,334
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
3,494
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2,181
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Retail
  
 
14
  
  
 
19,113
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
16,981
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
3,963
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5,191
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Multi-family
  
 
6
  
  
 
4,415
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
4,415
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
3,866
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
33
  
  
 
28,708
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
14,775
  
  
 
28
  
  
 
25,921
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
8,068
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Residential real estate and other
  
 
16
  
  
 
5,916
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
2,326
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
5,262
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
1,390
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Total loans
  
 
123
  
  
$
100,528
  
  
 
82
  
  
$
71,633
  
  
 
80
  
  
$
60,858
  
  
 
39
  
  
$
26,474
  
  
 
2
  
  
$
135
  








 
  
 
 
  
Extension atBelow Market
 
  
 
 
  
Modification toInterest-only
 
  
 
 

Year ended December 31, 2010
  
Total (1)
 
  
Terms
 
  
Reduction ofInterest Rate
 
  
Payments
 
  
Forgiveness of Debt
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 

 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
 
36
  
  
$
14,916
  
  
 
31
  
  
$
12,468
  
  
 
10
  
  
$
4,795
  
  
 
15
  
  
$
5,151
  
  
 
1
  
  
$
1,050
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
8
  
  
 
8,503
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
6,760
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
4,863
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
1,743
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
3
  
  
 
2,005
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
2,005
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
377
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
377
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Land
  
 
12
  
  
 
18,454
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
18,359
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
5,276
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
5,471
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Office
  
 
7
  
  
 
11,164
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,304
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
7,936
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
7,918
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Industrial
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,386
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,386
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
3,149
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
686
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Retail
  
 
11
  
  
 
10,746
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
3,186
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
6,811
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
8,138
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Multi-family
  
 
9
  
  
 
8,808
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
4,191
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5,735
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
6,164
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
2,644
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
20
  
  
 
16,649
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
4,394
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
10,948
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
11,994
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
250
  

 Residential real estate and other
  
 
4
  
  
 
3,269
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2,591
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
1,569
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
1,334
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Total loans
  
 
113
  
  
$
97,900
  
  
 
77
  
  
$
60,644
  
  
 
54
  
  
$
51,459
  
  
 
57
  
  
$
47,233
  
  
 
7
  
  
$
5,687
  








 
  
 
 
  
Extension atBelow Market
 
  
 
 
  
Modification toInterest-only
 
  
 
 

Year ended December 31, 2009
  
Total (1)
 
  
Terms
 
  
Reduction ofInterest Rate
 
  
Payments
 
  
Forgiveness of Debt
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 

 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
 
10
  
  
$
7,023
  
  
 
9
  
  
$
6,973
  
  
 
8
  
  
$
5,173
  
  
 
7
  
  
$
4,130
  
  
 
2
  
  
$
1,143
  

 Other
  
 
1
  
  
 
3,923
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
3,923
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
3,923
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,093
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,093
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Land
  
 
1
  
  
 
2,691
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
2,691
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
2,691
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Office
  
 
4
  
  
 
2,625
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
1,257
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
2,625
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
2,625
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Industrial
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,502
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,502
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,502
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Retail
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,783
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
593
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
3,190
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
3,190
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Multi-family
  
 
9
  
  
 
4,860
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
4,634
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
3,993
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
4,860
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
8
  
  
 
2,698
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
2,698
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
1,804
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
2,378
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Residential real estate and other
  
 
1
  
  
 
234
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
234
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
234
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Total loans
  
 
41
  
  
$
32,432
  
  
 
34
  
  
$
22,173
  
  
 
31
  
  
$
25,135
  
  
 
31
  
  
$
22,608
  
  
 
2
  
  
$
1,143
  
  


(1)
 Restructured loans may have more than one modification representing a concession. As such, restructured loans during the period may be
represented in more than one of the categories noted above. 
  107 


During the year ended December 31, 2011, $100.5 million, or 123 loans, were determined
to be troubled debt restructurings, compared to $97.9 million or 113 loans and $32.4 million or 41 loans, in the years ended 2010 and 2009, respectively. Of these loans extended at below market terms, the weighted average extension had a term of
approximately 11 months in 2011 compared to 13 months in 2010 and 15 months in 2009. Further, the weighted average decrease in the stated interest rate for loans with a reduction of interest rate during the period was approximately 192 basis points,
181 basis points and 170 basis points during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Interest-only payment terms were approximately 9 months during the year ended 2011 compared to 11 months and 10 months for the years
ended 2010 and 2009, respectively. Additionally, approximately $67,000 of principal balance was forgiven during 2011, compared to $5.7 million and $875,000 forgiven during 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
The tables below present a summary of loans restructured during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and subsequently
defaulted under the restructured terms during the relevant period:   




















































 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
Total
 
  
Payments inDefault 
(1)
 
  
Total
 
  
Payments inDefault 
(1)
 
  
Total
 
  
Payments inDefault 
(1)
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 
  
Count
 
  
Balance
 

 Commercial
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial and industrial
  
 
24
  
  
$
6,956
  
  
 
6
  
  
$
1,742
  
  
 
36
  
  
$
14,916
  
  
 
11
  
  
$
4,137
  
  
 
10
  
  
$
7,023
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
3,923
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Commercial real-estate
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Residential construction
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,105
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
8,503
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
6,095
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,093
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Commercial construction
  
 
8
  
  
 
12,140
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
467
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
2,005
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
981
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Land
  
 
7
  
  
 
7,971
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
1,667
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
18,454
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
6,533
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
2,691
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Office
  
 
9
  
  
 
8,870
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2,239
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
11,164
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
2,672
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
2,625
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Industrial
  
 
5
  
  
 
5,334
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
3,224
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,386
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1,502
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Retail
  
 
14
  
  
 
19,113
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2,694
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
10,746
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2,848
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3,783
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Multi-family
  
 
6
  
  
 
4,415
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
8,808
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
7,395
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
4,860
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Mixed use and other
  
 
33
  
  
 
28,708
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
5,283
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
16,649
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
3,747
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
2,698
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
999
  

 Residential real estate and other
  
 
16
  
  
 
5,916
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
908
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
3,269
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
1,936
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
234
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Total loans
  
 
123
  
  
$
100,528
  
  
 
25
  
  
$
18,224
  
  
 
113
  
  
$
97,900
  
  
 
35
  
  
$
36,344
  
  
 
41
  
  
$
32,432
  
  
 
2
  
  
$
999
  
  


(1)
 Restructured loans considered to be in payment default are over 30 days past-due subsequent to the restructuring.

  108 


(6) Loan Securitization 
During the third quarter of 2009, the Company entered into an off-balance sheet revolving period securitization
transaction sponsored by FIFC. In connection with the securitization, premium finance receivables — commercial were transferred to FIFC Premium Funding, LLC (the “securitization entity”). Principal collections on loans in the
securitization entity were initially used to subsequently acquire and transfer additional loans into the securitization entity during the stated revolving period. As of December 31, 2011, the stated revolving period has ended and the majority
of collections are now being accumulated to payoff the issued instruments as scheduled. Additionally, upon the occurrence of certain events established in the representations and warranties, FIFC may be required to repurchase ineligible loans that
were transferred to the entity. The Company’s primary continuing involvement includes servicing the loans, retaining an undivided interest (the “seller’s interest”) in the loans, and holding certain retained interests.
 Instruments issued by the securitization entity included $600 million Class A notes that bear an annual interest rate of
one-month LIBOR plus 1.45% (the “Notes”) and had an expected average term of 2.93 years with any unpaid balance due and payable in full on February 17, 2014. At the time of issuance, the Notes were eligible collateral under the New
York Fed’s TALF. Class B and Class C notes (“subordinated securities”), which are recorded in the form of zero coupon bonds, were also issued and were retained by the Company. 
Subsequent to December 31, 2009, this securitization transaction is accounted for as a secured borrowing and the securitization
entity is treated as a consolidated subsidiary of the Company under ASC 810 and ASC 860. Accordingly, beginning on January 1,  2010, all of the assets and liabilities of the securitization entity are included directly on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Condition. The securitization entity’s receivables
underlying third-party investors’ interests are recorded in loans, net of unearned income, excluding covered loans, an allowance for loan losses was established and the related debt issued is reported in secured borrowings—owed to
securitization investors. Additionally, beginning on January 1, 2010, certain other of the Company’s retained interests in the transaction, principally consisting of subordinated securities, cash collateral, and overcollateralization of
loans, now constitute intercompany positions, which are eliminated in the preparation of the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Condition.  Upon transfer of premium finance receivables — commercial to the securitization entity, the receivables and certain cash flows derived from them become restricted for use in meeting obligations to
the securitization entity’s creditors. The securitization entity has ownership of interest-bearing deposit balances that also have restrictions, the amounts of which are reported in interest-bearing deposits with other banks. Investment of the
interest-bearing deposit balances is limited to investments that are permitted under the governing documents of the transaction. With the exception of the seller’s interest in the transferred receivables, the Company’s interests in the
securitization entity’s assets are generally subordinate to the interests of third-party investors and, as such, may not be realized by the Company if needed to absorb deficiencies in cash flows that are allocated to the investors in the
securitization entity’s debt.  The carrying values and classification of the restricted assets and liabilities relating
to the securitization activities are shown in the table below.   












 
  
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Cash collateral accounts
  
$
4,427
  
 
$
1,759
  

 Collections and interest funding accounts
  
 
268,165
  
 
 
34,861
  

 Interest-bearing deposits with banks—restricted for securitization investors
  
$
272,592
  
 
$
36,620
  

 Loans, net of unearned income—restricted for securitization investors
  
$
412,988
  
 
$
648,439
  

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
(1,456
) 
 
 
(2,171
) 

 Net loans—restricted for securitization investors
  
$
411,532
  
 
$
646,268
  

 Other assets
  
 
2,319
  
 
 
2,289
  

 Total assets
  
$
686,443
  
 
$
685,177
  

 Secured borrowings—owed to securitization investors
  
$
600,000
  
 
$
600,000
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
2,821
  
 
 
4,458
  

 Total liabilities
  
$
602,821
  
 
$
604,458
  
 The assets of the consolidated securitization entity are subject to credit, payment and interest rate
risks on the transferred premium finance receivables — commercial. To protect investors, the securitization structure includes certain features that could result in earlier-than-expected repayment of the securities. Investors are allocated cash
flows derived from activities related to the accounts comprising the securitized pool of receivables, the amounts of which reflect finance charges collected net of agent fees, certain fee assessments, and recoveries on charged-off accounts. From
these cash flows, investors are reimbursed for charge-offs occurring within the securitized pool of receivables and receive the contractual rate of return and FIFC is paid a servicing fee as servicer. Any cash flows remaining in excess of these
requirements are reported to investors as net yield and remitted to the Company. A net yield 
  109 


rate of less than 0% for a three month period would trigger an economic early amortization
event. In addition to this performance measurement associated with the transferred loans, there are additional performance measurements and other events or conditions which could trigger an early amortization event. As of December 31, 2011, no
economic or other early amortization events have occurred. Apart from the restricted assets related to securitization activities, the investors and the securitization entity have no recourse to the Company’s other assets or credit for a
shortage in cash flows.  The Company continues to service the loan receivables held by the securitization entity. FIFC
receives a monthly servicing fee from the securitization entity based on a percentage of the monthly investor principal balance outstanding. Although the fee income to FIFC offsets the fee expense to the securitization entity and thus is eliminated
in consolidation, failure to service the transferred loan receivables in accordance with contractual requirements could lead to a termination of the servicing rights and the loss of future servicing income. 
Securitization Activity Prior to January 1, 2010  The following disclosures apply to the securitization activity of the Company prior to January 1, 2010, when transfers of receivables to the securitization entity were treated as sales in accordance
with prior GAAP.  At December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance of loans transferred to the securitization entity was
$597.9 million, of which  $593.9 million were securitized and $4.0 million were maintained as seller’s interests. The
seller’s interest was carried at historical cost and reported as loans, net of unearned income on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Condition.  Securitization Income  At the time of a loan securitization, the Company
recorded a gain/(loss) on sale, which was calculated as the difference between the proceeds from the sale and the book basis of the loans sold. The book basis was determined by allocating the carrying amount of the sold loans between the loans sold
and the interests retained based on their relative fair values. Such fair values were based on market prices at the date of transfer for the sold loans and on the estimated present value of future cash flows for retained interests. Gains on sale
from securitizations are reported in gain on sales of premium finance receivables in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income and were $5.7 million 2009. The income component resulting from the release of credit reserves upon
classification as held- for-sale was reported as a reduction of provision for credit losses.  Also reported in gain on sales
of premium finance receivables were changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip. This amount was the excess cash flow from interest collections allocated to the investors’ interests after deducting the interest paid on investor
certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees, and other expenses. Changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip of  $2.4 million were reported in gain on sale of premium finance receivables in 2009. 
The Company retained servicing responsibilities for the transferred loans and earns a related fee. Servicing fee income was 
$2.8 million for 2009 and is reported in other non-interest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Retained Interests  The
Company retained subordinated interests in the securitized loans. These interests included the subordinated securities, over-collateralization of loans, cash reserves, a servicing asset, and an interest-only strip. The following table presents the
Company’s retained interests at December 31, 2009:   








(Dollars in thousands)
  
  
 

 Subordinated securities (1)
  
$
47,702
  

 Residual interests held (2)
  
 
42,293
  

 Servicing asset (2)
  
 
1,248
  


  
  
  
 

 Total retained interests
  
$
91,243
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 The subordinated securities were accounted for at fair value and reported as available-for-sale securities on the Company’s Consolidated
Statements of Condition with unrealized gains recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. See Note 15 for further discussion on fair value. 
 


(2)
 The residual interests and servicing asset were accounted for at fair value and reported in other assets on the Company’s Consolidated
Statements of Condition. Retained interests held includes overcollateralization of loans, cash reserve deposits, and an interest-only strip. See Note 15 for further discussion on fair value. 
  110 


Key economic assumptions used in the measuring of fair value and the sensitivity of the fair
value to immediate adverse changes in those assumptions at December 31, 2009 for the Company’s servicing asset and other interests held related to securitized loans are presented in the following table: 
 
















 
  
Subordinated
 
 
Residual
 
 
Servicing
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Securities
 
 
Interests
 
 
Asset
 

 Fair value of interest held
  
$
47,702
  
 
$
42,293
  
 
$
1,248
  

 Expected weighted-average life (in months)
  
 
3.4
  
 
 
3.4
  
 
 
3.4
  

 Decrease in fair value from:
  



 



 




 1 month reduction
  
$
237
  
 
$
(1,248
) 
 
$
(181
) 

 2 month reduction
  
$
476
  
 
$
(2,516
) 
 
$
(363
) 






 Discount rate assumptions
  
 
5.97
% 
 
 
8.75
%(1) 
 
 
8.5
% 

 Decrease in fair value from:
  



 



 




 100 basis point increase
  
$
(305
) 
 
$
(222
) 
 
$
(3
) 

 200 basis point increase
  
$
(608
) 
 
$
(443
) 
 
$
(6
) 






 Credit loss assumption
  



 
 
0.27
% 
 
 
0.27
% 

 Decrease in fair value from:
  



 



 




 10% higher loss
  



 
$
(73
) 
 
$
—
  

 20% higher loss
  
 
 
 
 
$
(153
) 
 
$
—
  
  


(1)
 Excludes the discount rate on cash reserve deposits deemed to be immaterial. 
The sensitivities in the table above are hypothetical and caution should be exercised when relying on this data. Changes in fair value
based on variations in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear.  The following table summarizes the changes in the fair value of the Company’s servicing asset for the year ended December 31, 2009: 
 








(Dollars in thousands)
  
  
 

 Beginning fair value
  
$
—
  

 Fair value determined upon transfer of loans
  
 
2,820
  

 Changes in fair value due to changes in inputs and assumptions (1)
  
 
(1,610
) 

 Other changes (2)
  
 
38
  

 Ending fair value
  
$
1,248
  
  


(1)
 The Company measured servicing assets at fair value and reported change in other non-interest income. 
 


(2)
 Represents accretable yield reported in other non-interest income. 
The key economic assumptions used in measuring the fair value of the servicing asset included the prepayment speed and weighted-average
life, the discount rate, and default rate. The primary risk of material changes in the value of the servicing asset resided in the potential volatility in the economic assumptions used, particularly the prepayment speed and weighted-average life.
 Other Disclosures  The table below summarizes cash flows received from the securitization entity for the year ended December 31, 2009:   








(Dollars in thousands)
  
  
 

 Proceeds from new securitizations during the period
  
$
600,000
  

 Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizations
  
 
462,580
  

 Servicing and other fees received
  
 
2,150
  

 Excess spread received
  
 
7,228
  
 The following table presents quantitative information about the premium finance receivables —
commercial at December 31, 2009:   


















(Dollars in thousands)
  
TotalAmount ofLoans
 
  
Amount
ofLoans 30 days orMore Past Dueor on Nonaccrual
 
  
Net CreditWrite-offs duringthe Year
 

 Premium finance receivables — commercial
  
$
1,324,015
  
  
$
46,072
  
  

  
$
7,537
  

 Less: Premium finance receivables — commercial securitized
  
 
593,871
  
  
 
14,309
  
  
 
  
 
35
  

 Premium finance receivables — commercial on-balance sheet
  
$
730,144
  
  
$
31,763
  
  
 
  
$
7,502
  

  111 


(7) Mortgage Servicing Rights 
Following is a summary of the changes in the carrying value of MSRs, accounted for at fair value, for the years ending
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
















 
  
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
8,762
  
 
$
6,745
  
 
$
3,990
  

 Additions from loans sold with servicing retained
  
 
2,611
  
 
 
4,972
  
 
 
4,786
  

 Estimate of changes in fair value due to:
  



 



 




 Payoffs and paydowns
  
 
(2,430
) 
 
 
(2,468
) 
 
 
(2,321
) 

 Changes in valuation inputs or assumptions
  
 
(2,243
) 
 
 
(487
) 
 
 
290
  

 Fair value at end of year
  
$
6,700
  
 
$
8,762
  
 
$
6,745
  

 Unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans serviced for others
  
$
958,749
  
 
$
942,224
  
 
$
738,372
  
 The Company recognizes MSR assets upon the sale of residential real estate loans when it retains the
obligation to service the loans and the servicing fee is more than adequate compensation. The recognition of MSR assets and subsequent change in fair value are recognized in mortgage banking revenue. MSRs are subject to changes in value from actual
and expected prepayment of the underlying loans. The Company does not specifically hedge the value of its MSRs.  The Company
uses a third party to assist in the valuation of its MSRs. Fair values are determined by using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates the objective characteristics of the portfolio as well as subjective valuation parameters that purchasers
of servicing would apply to such portfolios sold into the secondary market. The subjective factors include loan prepayment speeds, interest rates, servicing costs and other economic factors. 
(8) Business Combinations 
FDIC-Assisted Transactions  Since April 2010, the Company has acquired the banking operations, including the acquisition of certain assets and the assumption of liabilities, of six financial institutions in FDIC-assisted
transactions.  The following table presents details related to these transactions: 
 




























(Dollars in thousands)
  
Lincoln Park
 
  
Wheatland
 
  
Ravenswood
 
  
Community FirstBank - Chicago
 
  
The Bank ofCommerce
 
  
 First
Chicago
 

 Date of acquisition
  
 
April 23, 2010
  
  
 
April 23, 2010
  
  
 
August 6, 2010
  
  
 
February 4, 2011
  
  
 
March 25, 2011
  
  
 
July 8, 2011
  

 Fair value of assets acquired, at the acquisition date
  
$
157,078
  
  
$
343,870
  
  
$
173,919
  
  
$
50,891
  
  
$
173,986
  
  
$
768,873
  

 Fair value of loans acquired, at the acquisition date
  
 
103,420
  
  
 
175,277
  
  
 
97,956
  
  
 
27,332
  
  
 
77,887
  
  
 
330,203
  

 Fair value of liabilities assumed, at the acquisition date
  
 
192,018
  
  
 
415,560
  
  
 
122,943
  
  
 
49,779
  
  
 
168,472
  
  
 
741,508
  
 Loans comprise the majority of the assets acquired in these transactions and are subject to loss sharing
agreements with the FDIC whereby the FDIC has agreed to reimburse the Company for 80% of losses incurred on the purchased loans, other real estate owned, and certain other assets. Additionally, the loss share agreements with the FDIC require the
Company to reimburse the FDIC in the event that actual losses on covered assets are lower than the original loss estimates agreed upon with the FDIC with respect of such assets in the loss share agreements. The Company refers to the loans subject to
these loss-sharing agreements as “covered loans” and uses the term “covered assets” to refer to covered loans, covered OREO and certain other covered assets. At their respective acquisition dates, the Company estimated the fair
value of the reimbursable losses to be approximately $273.3 million for the First Chicago acquisition, $48.9 million for TBOC acquisition and $6.7 million for the CFBC acquisition. For the three acquisitions subject to loss share agreements in 2010,
the Company estimated the fair value of the reimbursable losses as of the acquisition date to be approximately $44.0 million for the Ravenswood acquisition, and $113.8 million for the Lincoln Park and Wheatland acquisitions. The agreements with the
FDIC require that the Company follow certain servicing procedures or risk losing the FDIC reimbursement of covered asset losses.  The loans covered by the loss sharing agreements are classified and presented as covered loans and the estimated reimbursable losses are recorded as an FDIC indemnification asset in the Consolidated
Statements of Condition. The Company recorded the acquired assets and liabilities at their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The fair value for loans reflected expected credit losses at the

  112 



acquisition date. Therefore, the Company will only recognize a provision for credit losses and charge-offs on the acquired loans for any further credit deterioration. See Note 5 — Allowance
for Loan Losses, Allowance for Losses on Lending-Related Commitments and Impaired Loans for further discussion of the allowance on covered loans. These transactions resulted in bargain purchase gains of a total of $38.0 million in 2011, including
$27.4 million for First Chicago, $8.6 million for TBOC and $2.0 million for CFBC, and are shown as a component of non-interest income on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. In 2010, FDIC-assisted transactions resulted in bargain
purchase gains of a total of $33.3 million, including $6.8 million for Ravenswood, $22.3 million for Wheatland, and $4.2 million for Lincoln Park.  As stated above, in conjunction with FDIC-assisted transactions, the Company entered into loss share agreements with the FDIC. These agreements cover realized losses on loans, foreclosed real estate and
certain other assets. These loss share assets are measured separately from the loan portfolios because they are not contractually embedded in the loans and are not transferable with the loans should the Company choose to dispose of them. Fair values
at the acquisition dates were estimated based on projected cash flows available for loss-share based on the credit adjustments estimated for each loan pool and the loss share percentages. The loss share assets are also separately measured from the
related loans and foreclosed real estate and recorded as FDIC indemnification assets on the Consolidated Statements of Condition. Subsequent to the acquisition date, reimbursements received from the FDIC for actual incurred losses will reduce the
loss share assets. Reductions to expected losses, to the extent such reductions to expected losses are the result of an improvement to the actual or expected cash flows from the covered assets, will also reduce the loss share assets. Additions to
expected losses, will require an increase to the allowance for loan losses, and a corresponding increase to the loss share assets.  The
following table summarizes the activity in the Company’s FDIC indemnification asset during the periods indicated:   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Balance at beginning of period
  
$
118,182
  
 
$
—  
  

 Additions
  
 
343,231
  
 
 
160,644
  

 Accretion
  
 
1,081
  
 
 
1,436
  

 Expected reimbursements from the FDIC for changes in expected credit losses
  
 
(25,648
) 
 
 
193
  

 Payments received from the FDIC
  
 
(92,595
) 
 
 
(44,091
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at end of period
  
$
344,251
  
 
$
118,182
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Other Bank Acquisitions  On September 30, 2011, the Company acquired ESBI. ESBI was the parent company of Elgin State Bank, which operated three banking locations in Elgin, Illinois. As part of this transaction, Elgin State
Bank was merged into St. Charles. St. Charles acquired assets with a fair value of approximately $263.2 million, including $146.7 million of loans, and assumed liabilities with a fair value of approximately $248.4 million, including $241.1 million
of deposits. Additionally, the Company recorded goodwill of $5.0 million on the acquisition.  On October 22, 2010, Wheaton
Bank acquired a branch of First National Bank of Brookfield that is located in Naperville, Illinois. The acquired operations are operating as Naperville Bank & Trust. Wheaton Bank acquired assets with a fair value of approximately $22.9
million, including $10.7 million of loans, and assumed liabilities with a fair value of approximately $22.9 million, including $22.8 million of deposits. Additionally, the Company recorded goodwill of $1.7 million on the acquisition. 
Wealth Management Acquisition  On July 1, 2011, the Company acquired Great Lakes Advisors, a Chicago-based investment manager with approximately $2.4 billion in assets under management. The Company acquired assets with a fair
value of approximately $26.0 million and assumed liabilities with a fair value of approximately $8.8 million. The Company recorded goodwill of $15.7 million on the acquisition.  Mortgage Banking Acquisitions  On April 13, 2011, the Company acquired
certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the mortgage banking business of River City of Bloomington, Minnesota. Licensed to originate loans in five states, and with offices in Minnesota, Nebraska and North Dakota, River City originated
nearly $500 million in mortgage loans in 2010.  On February 3, 2011, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed
certain liabilities of the mortgage banking business of Woodfield of Rolling Meadows, Illinois. With offices in Rolling Meadows, Illinois and Crystal Lake, Illinois, Woodfield originated approximately $180 million in mortgage loans in 2010.

  113 


Life Insurance Premium Finance Acquisition 
On July 28, 2009, FIFC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, purchased the majority of the U.S. life insurance premium finance
assets of A.I. Credit Corp. and A.I. Credit Consumer Discount Company (“the sellers”), subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc. After giving effect to post-closing adjustments, an aggregate unpaid loan balance of $949.3 million
was purchased for $685.3 million in cash. At closing, a portion of the portfolio, with an aggregate unpaid loan balance of $321.1 million, and a corresponding portion of the purchase price of $232.8 million were placed in escrow, pending the receipt
of required third party consents. During the first quarter of 2010, based upon receipt of consents, the escrow was terminated and remaining funds released to the sellers and FIFC. Also, as a part of the purchase, $84.4 million of additional life
insurance premium finance assets were available for future purchase by FIFC subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. On October 2, 2009, the conditions were satisfied in relation to the majority of the additional life insurance
premium finance assets and FIFC purchased $83.4 million of the $84.4 million of life insurance premium finance assets available for an aggregate purchase price of $60.5 million in cash. 
Both life insurance premium finance asset purchases were accounted for as a single business combination under the acquisition method of
accounting as required by applicable accounting guidance. Accordingly, the impact related to this transaction is included in the Company’s financial statements only since the effective date of acquisition. The purchased assets and assumed
liabilities were recorded at their respective acquisition date fair values, and identifiable intangible assets were recorded at fair value. Under ASC 805, a gain is recorded equal to the amount by which the fair value of assets purchased exceeded
the fair value of liabilities assumed and consideration paid. As such, the Company recognized a $10.9 million bargain purchase gain in 2010, a $43.0 million bargain purchase gain in the fourth quarter of 2009 and a $113.1 million bargain purchase
gain in the third quarter of 2009, relating to the loans acquired for which all contingencies were removed. As of March 31, 2010, the full amount of the bargain purchase gain had been recognized into income. This gain is shown as a component of
non-interest income on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  Purchased loans with evidence of credit quality deterioration
since origination  Purchased loans acquired in a business combination are recorded at estimated fair value on their
purchase date. Expected future cash flows at the purchase date in excess of the fair value of loans are recorded as interest income over the life of the loans if the timing and amount of the future cash flows is reasonably estimable
(“accretable yield”). The difference between contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition is referred to as the non-accretable difference and represents probable losses in the portfolio.
 In determining the acquisition date fair value of purchased impaired loans, and in subsequent accounting, the Company
aggregates these purchased loans into pools of loans with common risk characteristics. Subsequent to the purchase date, increases in cash flows over those expected at the purchase date are recognized as interest income prospectively. Subsequent
decreases to the expected cash flows will result in a provision for loan losses.  The Company purchased a portfolio of life
insurance premium finance receivables in 2009. These purchased life insurance premium finance receivables are valued on an individual basis with the accretable component being recognized into interest income using the effective yield method over the
estimated remaining life of the loans. The non-accretable portion is evaluated each quarter and if the loans’ credit related conditions improve, a portion is transferred to the accretable component and accreted over future periods. In the event
a specific loan prepays in whole, any remaining accretable and non-accretable discount is recognized in income immediately. If credit related conditions deteriorate, an allowance related to these loans will be established as part of the provision
for credit losses.  See Note 4 — Loans, for more information on loans acquired with evidence of credit quality
deterioration since origination. 
(9) Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
A summary of the Company’s goodwill assets by business segment is presented in the following table: 
 




















(Dollars in thousands)
  
January 1,2011
 
  
GoodwillAcquired
 
  
ImpairmentLoss
 
  
December 31,2011
 

 Community banking
  
$
250,766
  
  
$
8,570
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
259,336
  

 Specialty finance
  
 
16,095
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
16,095
  

 Wealth management
  
 
14,329
  
  
 
15,708
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
30,037
  

 Total
  
$
281,190
  
  
$
24,278
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
305,468
  
 The Community banking segment’s goodwill increased $8.6 million in 2011 as a result of the ESBI
acquisition as well as the acquisition of certain assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of the mortgage banking businesses of Woodfield and River City. The acquisition of ESBI, Woodfield and River City increased goodwill $5.0 million,
$750,000, and $1.4 million, respectively. The remaining $1.5 million increase in the Community banking segment’s goodwill in 2011 relates to additional contingent consideration paid to the former owner of Professional Mortgage Partners
(“PMP”). Pursuant to the acquisition of PMP in December 2008, Wintrust was required to pay contingent consideration to the former owner of PMP as a result of attaining certain performance measures through December 2011. 
  114 


The Wealth management segment’s goodwill increased $15.7 million in 2011 as a result of
the acquisition of Great Lakes Advisors.  A summary of finite-lived intangible assets as of the dates shown and the expected
amortization as of December 31, 2011 is as follows:   












 
  
December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Specialty finance segment:
  



 




 Customer list intangibles:
  



 




 Gross carrying amount
  
$
1,800
  
 
$
1,800
  

 Accumulated amortization
  
 
(460
) 
 
 
(253
) 

 Net carrying amount
  
$
1,340
  
 
$
1,547
  





 Community banking segment:
  



 




 Core deposit intangibles:
  



 




 Gross carrying amount
  
$
35,587
  
 
$
29,608
  

 Accumulated amortization
  
 
(21,457
) 
 
 
(18,580
) 

 Net carrying amount
  
$
14,130
  
 
$
11,028
  





 Wealth management segment:
  



 




 Customer list and other intangibles:
  



 




 Gross carrying amount
  
$
6,790
  
 
$
3,252
  

 Accumulated amortization
  
 
(190
) 
 
 
(3,252
) 

 Net carrying amount
  
$
6,600
  
 
$
—
  





 Total other intangible assets, net
  
$
22,070
  
 
$
12,575
  
  








Estimated amortization
  
  
 

 Estimated—2012
  
$
4,112
  

 Estimated—2013
  
 
3,898
  

 Estimated—2014
  
 
3,421
  

 Estimated—2015
  
 
1,935
  

 Estimated—2016
  
 
1,422
  
 The customer list intangibles recognized in connection with the purchase of U.S. life insurance premium
finance assets in 2009 are being amortized over an 18-year period on an accelerated basis.  The increase in core deposit
intangibles from 2010 was related to the acquisition of Elgin State Bank and the FDIC-assisted acquisitions of First Chicago, CFBC and TBOC during 2011. Core deposit intangibles recognized in connection with the Company’s bank acquisitions are
being amortized over ten-year periods on an accelerated basis.  Intangibles within the Wealth management segment were
recognized in connection with the Company’s acquisition of Great Lakes Advisors during the third quarter of 2011. These intangibles consist of customer list and trademark intangibles, which are being amortized over a 20-year period, as well as
the value of certain executive non-compete agreements, which are being amortized over a two-year period.  Total amortization
expense associated with finite-lived intangibles in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $3.4 million, $2.7 million and $2.8 million, respectively. 
(10) Premises and Equipment, Net 
A summary of premises and equipment at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 
 





$000000000



$000000000


 
  
December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Land
  
$
101,260
  
  
$
88,059
  

 Buildings and leasehold improvements
  
 
340,901
  
  
 
296,590
  

 Furniture, equipment, and computer software
  
 
116,960
  
  
 
102,494
  

 Construction in progress
  
 
19,341
  
  
 
5,974
  


  
 
578,462
  
  
 
493,117
  





 Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
146,950
  
  
 
129,421
  

 Total premises and equipment, net
  
$
431,512
  
  
$
363,696
  
 Depreciation and amortization expense related to premises and equipment, totaled $19.1 million in 2011,
$17.1 million in 2010 and $17.4 million in 2009. 
  115 


(11) Deposits 
The following is a summary of deposits at December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 












(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Balance: 
  



 




 Non-interest bearing
  
$
1,785,433
  
 
$
1,201,194
  

 NOW
  
 
1,698,778
  
 
 
1,561,507
  

 Wealth management deposits
  
 
788,311
  
 
 
658,660
  

 Money market
  
 
2,263,253
  
 
 
1,759,866
  

 Savings
  
 
888,592
  
 
 
744,534
  

 Time certificates of deposit
  
 
4,882,900
  
 
 
4,877,912
  

 Total deposits
  
$
12,307,267
  
 
$
10,803,673
  





 Mix: 
  



 




 Non-interest bearing
  
 
15
% 
 
 
11
% 

 NOW
  
 
14
  
 
 
15
  

 Wealth management deposits
  
 
6
  
 
 
6
  

 Money market
  
 
18
  
 
 
16
  

 Savings
  
 
7
  
 
 
7
  

 Time certificates of deposit
  
 
40
  
 
 
45
  

 Total deposits
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 Wealth management deposits represent deposit balances (primarily money market accounts) at the
Company’s subsidiary banks from brokerage customers of WHI, trust and asset management customers of CTC and brokerage customers from unaffiliated companies.  The scheduled maturities of time certificates of deposit at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:   












(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Due within one year
  
$
3,239,761
  
  
$
3,100,161
  

 Due in one to two years
  
 
1,004,024
  
  
 
1,020,608
  

 Due in two to three years
  
 
235,585
  
  
 
399,507
  

 Due in three to four years
  
 
290,741
  
  
 
117,633
  

 Due in four to five years
  
 
108,511
  
  
 
236,059
  

 Due after five years
  
 
4,278
  
  
 
3,944
  

 Total time certificate of deposits
  
$
4,882,900
  
  
$
4,877,912
  
 The following table sets forth the scheduled maturities of time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or
more at December 31, 2011 and 2010:   












(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Maturing within three months
  
$
550,816
  
  
$
532,745
  

 After three but within six months
  
 
593,851
  
  
 
511,991
  

 After six but within 12 months
  
 
869,243
  
  
 
755,095
  

 After 12 months
  
 
1,160,709
  
  
 
1,131,162
  

 Total
  
$
3,174,619
  
  
$
2,930,993
  

(12) Notes Payable 
At December 31, 2011, the Company had notes payable of $52.8 million. The Company had a $51.0 million outstanding
balance of notes payable, with an interest rate of 4.50%, under a $76.0 million loan agreement (“Agreement”) with unaffiliated banks. The Agreement consists of a $75.0 million revolving credit facility, maturing on October 26, 2012,
and a $1.0 million term loan maturing on June 1, 2015. The Agreement was amended on October 28, 2011, effectively extending the maturity date on the revolving credit facility from October 28, 2011 to October 26, 2012 and
increasing the availability under the credit facility from $50.0 million to $75.0 million. At December 31, 2011, $50.0 million was outstanding on the $75.0 million revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the Agreement that are considered
“Base Rate Loans” will bear interest at a rate equal to the higher of (1) 450 basis points and (2) for the applicable period, the highest of (a) the federal funds rate plus 100 basis points, (b) the lender’s prime
rate plus 50 basis points, and (c) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined below) that would be applicable for an interest period of one month plus 150 basis points. Borrowings under the Agreement that are considered “Eurodollar Rate Loans”
will bear interest at a rate equal to the higher of (1) the British Bankers Association’s LIBOR rate for the applicable period plus 350 basis points (the “Eurodollar Rate”) and (2) 450 basis points. A commitment fee is
payable quarterly equal to 0.50% of the actual daily amount by which the lenders’ commitment under the revolving note exceeded the amount outstanding under such facility. 
  116 


The Agreement is secured by the stock of some of the banks and contains several restrictive
covenants, including the maintenance of various capital adequacy levels, asset quality and profitability ratios, and certain restrictions on dividends and other indebtedness. At December 31, 2011, the Company is in compliance with all debt
covenants. The Agreement is available to be utilized, as needed, to provide capital to fund continued growth at the Company’s banks and to serve as an interim source of funds for acquisitions, common stock repurchases or other general corporate
purposes.  As a result of the acquisition of Great Lakes Advisors, the Company assumed an unsecured promissory note to a Great
Lakes Advisor shareholder (“Promissory Note”) with an outstanding balance of $1.8 million as of December 31, 2011. Under the Promissory Note, the Company will make quarterly principal payments and pay interest at a rate of the federal
funds rate plus 100 basis points. As of December 31, 2011, the current interest rate was 1.25%. 
(13) Federal Home Loan Bank Advances 
A summary of the outstanding FHLB advances at December 31, 2011 and 2010, is as follows: 
 












(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 1.39% advance due February 2012
  
$
8,000
  
  
$
8,000
  

 1.48% advance due April 2012
  
 
52,000
  
  
 
52,000
  

 2.96% advance due January 2013
  
 
5,000
  
  
 
5,000
  

 2.01% advance due February 2013
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
30,000
  

 2.07% advance due April 2013
  
 
69,000
  
  
 
69,000
  

 3.92% advance due April 2013
  
 
1,500
  
  
 
1,500
  

 3.34% advance due June 2013
  
 
42,000
  
  
 
42,000
  

 1.45% advance due July 2013
  
 
26,000
  
  
 
26,000
  

 2.62% advance due April 2014
  
 
25,000
  
  
 
25,000
  

 1.94% advance due July 2014
  
 
10,000
  
  
 
10,000
  

 1.58% advance due September 2014
  
 
25,473
  
  
 
—
  

 1.63% advance due September 2014
  
 
25,508
  
  
 
—
  

 4.12% advance due February 2015
  
 
25,000
  
  
 
25,000
  

 4.55% advance due February 2016
  
 
45,000
  
  
 
45,000
  

 4.83% advance due May 2016
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
50,000
  

 3.47% advance due November 2017
  
 
10,000
  
  
 
10,000
  

 4.18% advance due February 2022
  
 
25,000
  
  
 
25,000
  

 Federal Home Loan Bank advances
  
$
474,481
  
  
$
423,500
  
 Federal Home Loan Bank advances consist of fixed rate obligations of the banks and are collateralized by
qualifying residential real estate and home equity loans and certain securities. FHLB advances are stated at par value adjusted for unamortized fair value adjustments recorded in connection with advances acquired through acquisitions. The Company
did not restructure any FHLB advances in 2011, but restructured $220.0 million of FHLB advances, paying $10.1 million in prepayment fees in 2010. These prepayment fees are classified in other assets on the Consolidated Statements of Condition and
are amortized as an adjustment to interest expense using the effective-interest method. The restructurings in 2010 were done in order to achieve lower interest rates and extend maturities. 
Approximately $40.0 million of the FHLB advances outstanding at December 31, 2011, have varying call dates ranging from January 2012
to February 2012. At December 31, 2011, the weighted average contractual interest rate on FHLB advances was 2.84% and the weighted average effective interest rate, which reflects amortization of fair value adjustments associated with FHLB
advances acquired through acquisitions, was 2.76%.  The banks have arrangements with the FHLB whereby, based on available
collateral, they could have borrowed an additional $131.9 million at December 31, 2011. 
  117 


(14) Subordinated Notes 
A summary of the subordinated notes at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 
 





$00.00



$00.00


(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Subordinated note, due October 29, 2012
  
$
5,000
  
  
$
10,000
  

 Subordinated note, due May 1, 2013
  
 
10,000
  
  
 
15,000
  

 Subordinated note, due May 29, 2015
  
 
20,000
  
  
 
25,000
  

 Total subordinated notes
  
$
35,000
  
  
$
50,000
  
 The original principal balance of each subordinated note was $25.0 million. Each subordinated note
requires annual principal payments of $5.0 million beginning in the sixth year of the note. The first $5.0 million payment was made in the fourth quarter of 2008. The interest rate on each subordinated note is calculated at a rate equal to LIBOR
plus 130 basis points. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the weighted average contractual interest rate on the subordinated notes was 1.83%. In connection with the issuances of subordinated notes, the Company incurred costs totaling $1.0 million.
These costs are included in other assets and are being amortized to interest expense using a method that approximates the effective interest method. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the unamortized balances of these costs were $27,000 and
$77,000, respectively. The subordinated notes qualify as Tier II capital under the regulatory capital requirements, subject to restrictions. 
(15) Other Borrowings 
The following is a summary of other borrowings at December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 





$00.00



$00.00


(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Securities sold under repurchase agreements
  
$
413,333
  
  
 
217,289
  

 Other
  
 
30,420
  
  
 
43,331
  

 Secured borrowings — owed to securitization investors
  
 
600,000
  
  
 
600,000
  

 Total other borrowings
  
$
1,043,753
  
  
$
860,620
  
 Securities sold under repurchase agreements represent $105.1 million and $77.6 million of customer sweep
accounts in connection with master repurchase agreements at the banks at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as well as $308.3 million and $139.7 million of short-term borrowings from banks and brokers at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Securities pledged for these borrowings are maintained under the Company’s control and consist of U.S. Government agency, mortgage-backed and corporate securities. These securities are included in the available-for-sale securities
portfolio as reflected on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Condition.  Other borrowings at December 31, 2011
represent the junior subordinated amortizing notes issued by the Company in connection with the issuance of the TEUs in December 2010. These junior subordinated notes were recorded at their initial principal balance of $44.7 million, net of issuance
costs. These notes have a stated interest rate of 9.5% and require quarterly principal and interest payments of $4.3 million, with an initial payment of $4.6 million that was paid on March 15, 2011. The issuance costs are being amortized to
interest expense using the effective-interest method. The scheduled final installment payment on the notes is December 15, 2013. See Note 24 — Shareholders’ Equity for further discussion of the TEUs. 
During the third quarter of 2009, the Company entered into an off-balance sheet securitization transaction sponsored by FIFC. In
connection with the securitization, premium finance receivables — commercial were transferred to FIFC Premium Funding, LLC, a QSPE. The QSPE issued $600 million Class A notes that bear an annual interest rate of one-month LIBOR plus 1.45%
(the “Notes”) and had an expected average term of 2.93 years with any unpaid balance due and payable in full on February 17, 2014. At the time of issuance, the Notes were eligible collateral under TALF. These notes are reflected on
the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Condition as secured borrowings owed to securitization investors. See Note 8 — Loan Securitization, for more information on the QSPE. 
  118 


(16) Junior Subordinated Debentures 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company owned 100% of the common securities of nine trusts, Wintrust Capital Trust
III, Wintrust Statutory Trust IV, Wintrust Statutory Trust V, Wintrust Capital Trust VII, Wintrust Capital Trust VIII, Wintrust Capital Trust IX, Northview Capital Trust I, Town Bankshares Capital Trust I, and First Northwest Capital Trust I (the
“Trusts”) set up to provide long- term financing. The Northview, Town and First Northwest capital trusts were acquired as part of the acquisitions of Northview Financial Corporation, Town Bankshares, Ltd., and First Northwest Bancorp,
Inc., respectively. The Trusts were formed for purposes of issuing trust preferred securities to third-party investors and investing the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common securities solely in junior subordinated
debentures issued by the Company (or assumed by the Company in connection with an acquisition), with the same maturities and interest rates as the trust preferred securities. The junior subordinated debentures are the sole assets of the Trusts. In
each Trust, the common securities represent approximately 3% of the junior subordinated debentures and the trust preferred securities represent approximately 97% of the junior subordinated debentures. 
The Trusts are reported in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as unconsolidated subsidiaries. Accordingly, in the
Consolidated Statements of Condition, the junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company to the Trusts are reported as liabilities and the common securities of the Trusts, all of which are owned by the Company, are included in
available-for-sale securities.  The following table provides a summary of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The junior subordinated debentures represent the par value of the obligations owed to the Trusts.   








































 
  
Common
 
  
TrustPreferred
 
  
JuniorSubordinatedDebentures
 
  
Rate
 
  
Contractualrate at
 
 
Issue
 
  
Maturity
 
  
EarliestRedemption
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Securities
 
  
Securities
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Structure
 
  
12/31/11
 
 
Date
 
  
Date
 
  
Date
 

 Wintrust Capital Trust III
  
$
774
  
  
$
25,000
  
  
$
25,774
  
  
$
25,774
  
  
 
L+3.25
  
  
 
3.65
% 
 
 
04/2003
  
  
 
04/2033
  
  
 
04/2008
  

 Wintrust Statutory Trust IV
  
 
619
  
  
 
20,000
  
  
 
20,619
  
  
 
20,619
  
  
 
L+2.80
  
  
 
3.38
% 
 
 
12/2003
  
  
 
12/2033
  
  
 
12/2008
  

 Wintrust Statutory Trust V
  
 
1,238
  
  
 
40,000
  
  
 
41,238
  
  
 
41,238
  
  
 
L+2.60
  
  
 
3.18
% 
 
 
05/2004
  
  
 
05/2034
  
  
 
06/2009
  

 Wintrust Capital Trust VII
  
 
1,550
  
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
51,550
  
  
 
51,550
  
  
 
L+1.95
  
  
 
2.50
% 
 
 
12/2004
  
  
 
03/2035
  
  
 
03/2010
  

 Wintrust Capital Trust VIII
  
 
1,238
  
  
 
40,000
  
  
 
41,238
  
  
 
41,238
  
  
 
L+1.45
  
  
 
2.03
% 
 
 
08/2005
  
  
 
09/2035
  
  
 
09/2010
  

 Wintrust Captial Trust IX
  
 
1,547
  
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
51,547
  
  
 
51,547
  
  
 
L+1.63
  
  
 
2.18
% 
 
 
09/2006
  
  
 
09/2036
  
  
 
09/2011
  

 Northview Capital Trust I
  
 
186
  
  
 
6,000
  
  
 
6,186
  
  
 
6,186
  
  
 
L+3.00
  
  
 
3.43
% 
 
 
08/2003
  
  
 
11/2033
  
  
 
08/2008
  

 Town Bankshares Capital Trust I
  
 
186
  
  
 
6,000
  
  
 
6,186
  
  
 
6,186
  
  
 
L+3.00
  
  
 
3.43
% 
 
 
08/2003
  
  
 
11/2033
  
  
 
08/2008
  

 First Northwest Capital Trust I
  
 
155
  
  
 
5,000
  
  
 
5,155
  
  
 
5,155
  
  
 
L+3.00
  
  
 
3.58
% 
 
 
05/2004
  
  
 
05/2034
  
  
 
05/2009
  

 Total
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
$
249,493
  
  
$
249,493
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
2.73
% 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 The junior subordinated debentures totaled $249.5 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010.  The interest rates on the variable rate junior subordinated debentures are based on the three-month LIBOR rate and
reset on a quarterly basis. The interest rate on the Wintrust Capital Trust IX junior subordinated debentures, previously fixed at 6.84%, changed to a variable rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 1.63% effective September 15, 2011. At
December 31, 2011, the weighted average contractual interest rate on the junior subordinated debentures was 2.73%. The Company entered into $225 million of interest rate swaps to hedge the variable cash flows on certain junior subordinated
debentures. The hedge-adjusted rate on the junior subordinated debentures on December 31, 2011, was 5.27%. Distributions on the common and preferred securities issued by the Trusts are payable quarterly at a rate per annum equal to the interest
rates being earned by the Trusts on the junior subordinated debentures. Interest expense on the junior subordinated debentures is deductible for income tax purposes.  The Company has guaranteed the payment of distributions and payments upon liquidation or redemption of the trust preferred securities, in each case to the extent of funds held by the Trusts. The Company
and the Trusts believe that, taken together, the obligations of the Company under the guarantees, the junior subordinated debentures, and other related agreements provide, in the aggregate, a full, irrevocable and unconditional guarantee, on a
subordinated basis, of all of the obligations of the Trusts under the trust preferred securities. Subject to certain limitations, the Company has the right to defer the payment of interest on the junior subordinated debentures at any time, or from
time to time, for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters. The trust preferred securities are subject to mandatory redemption, in whole or in part, upon repayment of the junior subordinated debentures at maturity or their earlier redemption.
The junior subordinated debentures are redeemable in whole or in part prior to maturity at any time after the earliest redemption dates shown in the table, and earlier at the discretion of the Company if certain conditions are met, and, in any
event, only after the Company has obtained Federal Reserve approval, if then required under applicable guidelines or regulations.  The junior subordinated debentures, subject to certain limitations, qualify as Tier 1 capital of the Company for regulatory purposes. The amount of junior subordinated debentures and certain other capital
elements in excess of those certain limitations could be included in Tier 2 capital, subject to restrictions. At December 31, 2011, all of the junior subordinated debentures, net of the Common Securities, were included in the Company’s
Tier 1 regulatory capital. 
  119 


(17) Minimum Lease Commitments 
The Company occupies certain facilities under operating lease agreements. Gross rental expense related to the
Company’s operating leases was $7.9 million in 2011, $6.2 million in 2010 and $5.5 million in 2009. The Company also leases certain owned premises and receives rental income from such lease agreements. Gross rental income related to the
Company’s buildings totaled $3.8 million, $2.4 million and $2.2 million, in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The approximate minimum annual gross rental payments and gross rental income under noncancelable agreements for office space with
remaining terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2011, are as follows (in thousands):   












  
  
Payments
 
  
Income
 

 2012
  
$
4,189
  
  
$
2,454
  

 2013
  
 
3,989
  
  
 
2,157
  

 2014
  
 
3,313
  
  
 
1,694
  

 2015
  
 
2,933
  
  
 
1,541
  

 2016
  
 
2,927
  
  
 
1,043
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
9,011
  
  
 
1,513
  

 Total minimum future amounts
  
$
26,362
  
  
$
10,402
  

(18) Income Taxes 
Income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is summarized as follows: 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current income taxes:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
40,312
  
 
$
46,169
  
 
$
(7,361
) 

 State
  
 
10,785
  
 
 
7,281
  
 
 
517
  

 Total current income taxes
  
$
51,097
  
 
$
53,450
  
 
$
(6,844
) 






 Deferred income taxes:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
(555
) 
 
 
(14,233
) 
 
 
44,800
  

 State
  
 
(84
) 
 
 
(1,739
) 
 
 
6,479
  

 Total deferred income taxes
  
 
(639
) 
 
 
(15,972
) 
 
 
51,279
  






 Total income tax expense
  
$
50,458
  
 
$
37,478
  
 
$
44,435
  
 Tax expense in 2011 includes approximately $408,000 related to increases in deferred tax liabilities for
enacted changes in tax laws or increases in tax rates.  Tax (benefits) expense of ($129,000), ($895,000) and $145,000 in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively, related to the exercise of certain stock options and vesting and issuance of shares pursuant to the Stock Incentive Plans and the issuance of shares pursuant to the Directors Deferred Fee and Stock Plan, are not
reflected in the above table and were recorded directly to shareholders’ equity.  A reconciliation of the differences
between taxes computed using the statutory Federal income tax rate of 35% and actual income tax expense is as follows:   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Income tax expense based upon the Federal statutory rate on income before income taxes
  
$
44,812
  
 
$
35,282
  
 
$
41,126
  

 Increase (decrease) in tax resulting from:
  



 



 




 Tax-exempt interest, net of interest expense disallowance
  
 
(1,139
) 
 
 
(963
) 
 
 
(988
) 

 State taxes, net of federal tax benefit
  
 
6,955
  
 
 
3,602
  
 
 
4,547
  

 Income earned on bank owned life insurance
  
 
(854
) 
 
 
(795
) 
 
 
(677
) 

 Non-deductible compensation costs
  
 
644
  
 
 
707
  
 
 
1,136
  

 Meals, entertainment and related expenses
  
 
802
  
 
 
669
  
 
 
527
  

 Tax credits
  
 
(562
) 
 
 
(704
) 
 
 
(885
) 

 Other, net
  
 
(200
) 
 
 
(320
) 
 
 
(351
) 

 Income tax expense
  
$
50,458
  
 
$
37,478
  
 
$
44,435
  

  120 


The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the
deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:   












 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 


  
  
  
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



  




 Allowance for credit losses
  
$
44,538
  
  
$
45,467
  

 Net unrealized losses on derivatives included in other comprehensive income
  
 
4,623
  
  
 
5,021
  

 Deferred compensation
  
 
10,855
  
  
 
5,881
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
10,757
  
  
 
9,332
  

 Nonaccrued interest
  
 
2,414
  
  
 
2,016
  

 Other real estate owned
  
 
9,724
  
  
 
3,628
  

 Mortgage banking recourse obligation
  
 
992
  
  
 
3,433
  

 Goodwill and intangible assets
  
 
264
  
  
 
—
  

 Other
  
 
3,696
  
  
 
1,298
  

 Total gross deferred tax assets
  
 
87,863
  
  
 
76,076
  





 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



  




 Discount on purchased loans
  
 
37,657
  
  
 
35,341
  

 Premises and equipment
  
 
20,591
  
  
 
17,668
  

 Goodwill and intangible assets
  
 
—
  
  
 
7,649
  

 Deferred loan fees and costs
  
 
5,809
  
  
 
5,054
  

 FHLB stock dividends
  
 
3,322
  
  
 
2,810
  

 Capitalized servicing rights
  
 
2,650
  
  
 
3,375
  

 Net unrealized gains on securities included in other comprehensive income
  
 
2,807
  
  
 
1,691
  

 Deferred gain on termination of derivatives
  
 
68
  
  
 
145
  

 Debt finance/prepayment charges
  
 
1,450
  
  
 
2,659
  

 Covered assets
  
 
30,058
  
  
 
16,933
  

 Other
  
 
829
  
  
 
490
  

 Total gross deferred liabilities
  
 
105,241
  
  
 
93,815
  

 Net deferred tax liabilities
  
$
17,378
  
  
$
17,739
  
 Management believes that it is more likely than not that the recorded deferred tax assets will be fully
realized and therefore no valuation allowance is necessary. The conclusion that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized is based on the Company’s historical earnings, its current level of earnings and prospects
for continued growth and profitability.  The Company is required to record a liability (or a reduction of an asset) for the
uncertainty associated with certain tax positions. This liability, if any, reflects the fact that the Company has not recognized the benefit associated with the tax position. The Company had no unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2010 and
it did not have increases or decreases in unrecognized tax benefits during 2011 and does not have any tax positions for which unrecognized tax benefits must be recorded at December 31, 2011. In addition, for the year ended December 31,
2011, the Company has no interest or penalties relating to income tax positions recognized in the income statement or in the balance sheet. If the Company were to record interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions or as a result
of an audit by a tax jurisdiction, the interest and penalties would be included in income tax expense. The Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will significantly change in the next 12 months. 
The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the US federal jurisdiction and various state jurisdictions, and in the
ordinary course of business we are routinely subject to audit by the taxing authorities of these jurisdictions. Currently, the Company’s federal income tax returns are open and subject to audit for the 2006 tax return year forward, and in
general, the Company’s state income tax returns from the 2008 tax return year forward are open and subject to audit, subject to individual state statutes of limitation. 
  121 


(19) Stock Compensation Plans and Other Employee Benefit Plans 
Stock Incentive Plan  The 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (“the 2007 Plan”), which was approved by the Company’s shareholders in January 2007, permits the grant of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options,
rights and restricted stock, as well as the conversion of outstanding options of acquired companies to Wintrust options. The 2007 Plan initially provided for the issuance of up to 500,000 shares of common stock. In May 2009 and May 2011, the
Company’s shareholders approved an additional 325,000 shares and 2,860,000 shares, respectively, of common stock that may be offered under the 2007 Plan. All grants made after 2006 have been made pursuant to the 2007 Plan, and as of
December 31, 2011, 2,253,036 shares were available for future grants. The 2007 Plan replaced the Wintrust Financial Corporation 1997 Stock Incentive Plan (“the 1997 Plan”) which had substantially similar terms. The 2007 Plan and the
1997 Plan are collectively referred to as “the Plans.” The Plans cover substantially all employees of Wintrust.  The
Company historically awarded stock-based compensation in the form of nonqualified stock options and time-vested restricted share awards (“restricted shares”.) In general, the grants of options provide for the purchase shares of
Wintrust’s common stock at the fair market value of the stock on the date the options are granted. Options under the 2007 Plan generally vest ratably over a five- year period and have a maximum term of seven years from the date of grant. Stock
options granted under the 1997 Plan provided for a maximum term of ten years. Restricted shares entitle the holders to receive, at no cost, shares of the Company’s common stock. Restricted shares generally vest over periods of one to five years
from the date of grant.  In August 2011, awards were granted to key employees under a Long-Term Incentive Program
(“LTIP”) administered under the 2007 Plan. The LTIP was designed in part to align the interests of management with the interests of shareholders, foster retention, create a long-term focus based on sustainable results and provide
participants a target long-term incentive opportunity. The target awards include three components – time vested nonqualified stock options, performance-vested stock awards and performance-vested cash awards. Stock options granted under the LTIP
have a 7-year term and will generally vest equally over three years based on continued service, and the performance stock awards and performance cash awards are measured based on the achievement of pre-established targets at the end of the
performance period. The actual performance-based award payouts will vary based on the achievement of the pre-established targets and can range from 0% to 200% of the target award. The first grant of these awards was made in August 2011 and has a
final vesting date and a performance measurement date of December 31, 2013, resulting in an initial period of less than three years. It is anticipated that awards will be granted annually with a new three year performance cycle beginning each
year.  Holders of restricted share awards and performance-vested stock awards are not entitled to vote or receive cash
dividends (or cash payments equal to the cash dividends) on the underlying common shares until the awards are vested. Except in limited circumstances, these awards are canceled upon termination of employment without any payment of consideration by
the Company.  The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors administers all stock-based compensation programs and
authorizes all awards granted pursuant to the Plans.  Stock-based compensation is measured as the fair value of an award on the
date of grant, and the measured cost is recognized over the period which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the award. Performance-vested stock awards are measured based on the expected achievement of pre-established
targets at the end of the performance period. The fair values of restricted shares and performance-vested stock awards are determined based on the average of the high and low trading prices on the grant date, and the fair value of stock options is
estimated using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model that utilizes the assumptions outlined in the following table. Option-pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions and are sensitive to changes in the option’s expected
life and the price volatility of the underlying stock, which can materially affect the fair value estimate. Expected life has been based on historical exercise and termination behavior as well as the term of the option, but the expected life of the
options granted pursuant to the LTIP awards was based on the safe harbor rule of the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 “Share-Based Payment” as the Company believes historical exercise data may not provide a reasonable basis to
estimate the expected term of these options. Expected stock price volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock, which correlates with the expected life of the options, and the risk-free interest rate is based on
comparable U.S. Treasury rates. Management reviews and adjusts the assumptions used to calculate the fair value of an option on a periodic basis to better reflect expected trends. The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to
determine the fair value of options granted in the years ending December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Expected dividend yield
  
 
0.5
% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
1.7
%  

 Expected volatility
  
 
61.8
% 
 
 
48.5
% 
 
 
46.3
% 

 Risk-free rate
  
 
1.0
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.5
% 

 Expected option life (in years)
  
 
4.4
  
 
 
6.2
  
 
 
5.9
  
 Stock based compensation is recognized based on the number of awards that are ultimately expected to
vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical forfeiture experience. For performance-vested stock awards, an estimate is made of the number of shares expected to vest as a result of actual performance against the performance criteria to
determine the amount of compensation expense to be recognized. The estimate is reevaluated quarterly and total compensation expense is adjusted for any change in the current period. 
  122 



Stock-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income was $5.6 million, $4.4 million and $6.7 million and the related tax benefits were $2.2 million, $1.7 million
and $2.6 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  A summary of the Plans’ stock option activity for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows:   


















Stock Options
  
CommonShares
 
 
WeightedAverageStrike Price
 
  
RemainingContractualTerm
(1)
  
IntrinsicValue
(2)($000)
 

 Outstanding at January 1, 2009
  
 
2,388,174
  
 
$
35.61  
  
  

  




 Granted
  
 
54,500
  
 
 
20.72  
  
  

  




 Exercised
  
 
(213,012
) 
 
 
11.84  
  
  

  




 Forfeited or canceled
  
 
(73,453
) 
 
 
34.57  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2009
  
 
2,156,209
  
 
$
37.61  
  
  
3.9
  
$
8,959  
  

 Exercisable at December 31, 2009
  
 
1,842,508
  
 
$
37.15  
  
  
3.7
  
$
8,382  
  







 Outstanding at January 1, 2010
  
 
2,156,209
  
 
$
37.61  
  
  

  




 Granted
  
 
86,865
  
 
 
33.63  
  
  

  




 Exercised
  
 
(159,637
) 
 
 
14.95  
  
  

  




 Forfeited or canceled
  
 
(42,736
) 
 
 
51.46  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
2,040,701
  
 
$
38.92  
  
  
3.3
  
$
8,028  
  

 Exercisable at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,803,298
  
 
$
39.63  
  
  
3.0
  
$
7,368  
  







 Outstanding at January 1, 2011
  
 
2,040,701
  
 
$
38.92  
  
  

  




 Granted
  
 
221,003
  
 
 
33.15  
  
  

  




 Exercised
  
 
(85,706
) 
 
 
17.20  
  
  

  




 Forfeited or canceled
  
 
(111,464
) 
 
 
46.01  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
2,064,534
  
 
$
38.83  
  
  
2.7
  
$
3,809  
  

 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,779,218
  
 
$
39.93  
  
  
2.3
  
$
3,558  
  







 Vested or expected to vest at December 31, 2011
  
 
2,058,850
  
 
$
38.85  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  


(1)
 Represents the weighted average contractual remaining life in years. 
 


(2)
 Aggregate intrinsic value represents the total pretax intrinsic value (i.e., the difference between the Company’s average of the high and
low stock price at year end and the option exercise price, multiplied by the number of shares) that would have been received by the option holders if they had exercised their options on the last day of the year. Options with exercise prices above
the year end stock price are excluded from the calculation of intrinsic value. This amount will change based on the fair market value of the Company’s stock. 
The weighted average per share grant date fair value of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was
$15.84, $15.83 and $8.55, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $1.2 million, $3.2 million and $2.6 million, respectively. 
Cash received from option exercises under the Plans for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1.5 million, $2.4
million and $2.5 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled $468,000, $1.2 million and $1.0 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
A summary of the Plans’ restricted share and performance-vested stock award activity for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009 is as follows:   




























 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

Restricted Shares
  
CommonShares
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant-DateFair Value
 
  
CommonShares
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant-DateFair Value
 
  
CommonShares
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant-DateFair Value
 

 Outstanding at January 1
  
 
299,040
  
 
$
39.44
  
  
 
208,430
  
 
$
43.24
  
  
 
262,997
  
 
$
44.09  
  

 Granted
  
 
98,394
  
 
 
32.85
  
  
 
149,656
  
 
 
35.20
  
  
 
28,550
  
 
 
24.22  
  

 Vested and issued
  
 
(56,641
) 
 
 
35.17
  
  
 
(58,411
) 
 
 
42.21
  
  
 
(81,492
) 
 
 
39.84  
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(4,084
) 
 
 
34.73
  
  
 
(635
) 
 
 
34.74
  
  
 
(1,625
) 
 
 
30.56  
  

 Outstanding at end of year
  
 
336,709
  
 
$
38.29
  
  
 
299,040
  
 
$
39.44
  
  
 
208,430
  
 
$
43.24  
  

 Vested, but not issuable at end of year
  
 
85,000
  
 
$
51.88
  
  
 
85,000
  
 
$
51.88
  
  
 
—
  
 
$
—  
  









 Performance Shares
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Outstanding at January 1
  
 
—
  
 



  



 



  



 




 Granted
  
 
100,993
  
 
$
33.25
  
  



 



  



 




 Vested and issued
  
 
—
  
 



  



 



  



 




 Net decrease due to estimated performance
  
 
(28,062
) 
 
 
33.25
  
  



 



  



 




 Forfeited
  
 
(773
) 
 
 
33.28
  
  



 



  



 




 Outstanding at end of year
  
 
72,158
  
 
$
33.25
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  123 


The number of performance shares granted is reflected in the above table at the target
performance level. The actual performance- based award payouts will vary based on the achievement of the pre-established targets and can range from 0% to 200% of the target award. 
The actual tax benefit realized upon the vesting of restricted shares is based on the fair value of the shares on the vesting date and
the estimated tax benefit of the awards is based on fair value of the awards on the grant date. The actual tax benefit realized upon the vesting of restricted shares in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $72,000, $28,000 and $754,000, respectively, less than
the estimated tax benefit for those shares. These differences in actual and estimated tax benefits were recorded directly to shareholders’ equity.  Beginning in the third quarter of 2009 through January 2011, the Company paid a portion of the base pay of certain executives in shares of the Company’s stock. The number of shares granted as of each
payroll date was based on the compensation earned during the period and the average of the high and low price of the Company’s common stock on the last day of the payroll period. In 2011, 446 shares were granted and issued at an average price
of $32.59, and in 2010, 5,279 shares were granted and issued at an average price of $33.15. Shares granted under this arrangement are granted under the 2007 Plan.  As of December 31, 2011, there was $10.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested share based arrangements under the Plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of approximately two years. The total fair value of shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $4.1 million, $9.5 million and 
$6.9 million, respectively.  The Company issues new shares to satisfy its obligation to issue shares granted pursuant to the Plans.  Cash Incentive and Retention Plan  In April 2008, the Company approved a
Cash Incentive and Retention Plan (“CIRP”) which allows the Company to provide cash compensation to the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ officers and employees. The CIRP is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors. The CIRP generally provides for the grants of cash awards, as determined by the Compensation Committee, which may be earned pursuant to the achievement of performance criteria established by the Committee and/or continued employment.
The performance criteria, if any, established by the Committee must relate to one or more of the criteria specified in the CIRP, which includes: earnings, earnings growth, revenues, stock price, return on assets, return on equity, improvement of
financial ratings, achievement of balance sheet or income statement objectives and expenses. These criteria may relate to the Company, a particular line of business or a specific subsidiary of the Company. The Company’s expense related to the
CIRP was approximately $295,000, $368,000 and $275,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Other Employee Benefits 
Wintrust and its subsidiaries also provide 401(k) Retirement Savings Plans (“401(k) Plans”). The 401(k) Plans cover all
employees meeting certain eligibility requirements. Contributions by employees are made through salary deferrals at their direction, subject to certain Plan and statutory limitations. Employer contributions to the 401(k) Plans are made at the
employer’s discretion. Generally, participants completing 501 hours of service are eligible to share in an allocation of employer contributions. The Company’s expense for the employer contributions to the 401(k) Plans was approximately
$4.0 million in 2011, $3.6 million in 2010, and $3.2 million in 2009.  The Wintrust Financial Corporation Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (“SPP”) is designed to encourage greater stock ownership among employees, thereby enhancing employee commitment to the Company. The SPP gives eligible employees the right to accumulate funds over an offering period to
purchase shares of common stock. All shares offered under the SPP will be either newly issued shares of the Company or shares issued from treasury, if any. In accordance with the SPP, the purchase price of the shares of common stock may not be lower
than the lesser of 85% of the fair market value per share of the common stock on the first day of the offering period or 85% of the fair market value per share of the common stock on the last date for the offering period. The Company’s Board of
Directors authorized a purchase price calculation at 90% of fair market value for each of the offering periods. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, a total of 71,077 shares, 53,909 shares and 119,341 shares, respectively, were earned by participants and
approximately $300,000, $274,000 and $963,000, respectively, was recognized as compensation expense. The current offering period concludes on March 31, 2012. The Company plans to continue to periodically offer common stock through this SPP
subsequent to March 31, 2012. At December 31, 2011, 87,353 shares were available for future grants under the SPP. 
The Company does not currently offer other postretirement benefits such as health care or other pension plans. 
Directors Deferred Fee and Stock Plan  The Wintrust Financial Corporation Directors Deferred Fee and Stock Plan (“DDFS Plan”) allows directors of the Company and its subsidiaries to choose to receive payment of directors’ fees
in either cash or common stock of the Company and to defer the receipt of the fees. The DDFS Plan is designed to encourage stock ownership by directors. All shares offered under the DDFS Plan will be

  124 



either newly issued shares of the Company or shares issued from treasury. The number of shares issued is determined on a quarterly basis based on the fees earned during the quarter and the fair
market value per share of the common stock on the last trading day of the preceding quarter. The shares are issued annually and the directors are entitled to dividends and voting rights upon the issuance of the shares. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, a
total of 25,242 shares, 47,830 shares and 51,627 shares, respectively, were issued to directors. For those directors that elect to defer the receipt of the common stock, the Company maintains records of stock units representing an obligation to
issue shares of common stock. The number of stock units equals the number of shares that would have been issued had the director not elected to defer receipt of the shares. Additional stock units are credited at the time dividends are paid, however
no voting rights are associated with the stock units. The shares of common stock represented by the stock units are issued in the year specified by the directors in their participation agreements. In October 2011, the Company’s Board of
Directors authorized an additional 150,000 shares of common stock that may be offered under the DDFS Plan. At December 31, 2011, the Company has an obligation to issue 219,391 shares of common stock to directors and has 151,181 shares available
for future grants under the DDFS Plan. 
(20) Regulatory Matters 
Banking laws place restrictions upon the amount of dividends which can be paid to Wintrust by the banks. Based on
these laws, the banks could, subject to minimum capital requirements, declare dividends to Wintrust without obtaining regulatory approval in an amount not exceeding (a) undivided profits, and (b) the amount of net income reduced by
dividends paid for the current and prior two years. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, cash dividends totaling $27.8 million, $11.5 million and $100.0 million, respectively, were paid to Wintrust by the banks. As of January 1, 2012, the banks had
approximately $94.7 million available to be paid as dividends to Wintrust without prior regulatory approval and without reducing their capital below the well-capitalized level. 
The banks are also required by the Federal Reserve Act to maintain reserves against deposits. Reserves are held either in the form of
vault cash or balances maintained with the Federal Reserve Bank and are based on the average daily deposit balances and statutory reserve ratios prescribed by the type of deposit account. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, reserve balances of
approximately $122.2 million and $77.2 million, respectively, were required to be maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank.  The
Company and the banks are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory — and possibly additional
discretionary—actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company’s financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company
and the banks must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Company’s assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The Company’s and the
banks’ capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors.  Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and the banks to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and Tier 1 capital (as defined in the
regulations) to risk-weighted assets (as defined) and Tier 1 leverage capital (as defined) to average quarterly assets (as defined).  The Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines require bank holding companies to maintain a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8.0%, of which at least 4.0% must be in the
form of Tier 1 Capital. The Federal Reserve also requires a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio (Tier 1 Capital to total assets) of 3.0% for strong bank holding companies (those rated a composite “1” under the Federal Reserve’s rating
system). For all other banking holding companies, the minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio is 4.0%. In addition the Federal Reserve continues to consider the Tier 1 leverage ratio in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. As reflected in the
following table, the Company met all minimum capital requirements at December 31, 2011 and 2010:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Total Capital to Risk Weighted Assets
  
 
13.0
% 
 
 
13.8
%  

 Tier 1 Capital to Risk Weighted Assets
  
 
11.8
% 
 
 
12.5
%  

 Tier 1 Leverage Ratio
  
 
9.4
% 
 
 
10.1
%  
 Wintrust is designated as a financial holding company. Bank holding companies approved as financial
holding companies may engage in an expanded range of activities, including the businesses conducted by its wealth management subsidiaries. As a financial holding company, Wintrust’s banks are required to maintain their capital positions at the
“well-capitalized” level. As of December 31, 2011, the banks were categorized as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. The ratios required for the banks to be “well capitalized” by
regulatory definition are 10.0%, 6.0%, and 5.0% for Total Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets, Tier 1 Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets and Tier 1 Leverage Ratio, respectively. 
  125 


The banks’ actual capital amounts and ratios as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are
presented in the following table (dollars in thousands):   




































  
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Actual
 
 
To Be WellCapitalized byRegulatory Definition
 
 
Actual
 
 
To Be WellCapitalized byRegulatory Definition
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 

 Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets):
   
  



 



  



 



  



 



  




 Lake Forest Bank
  
 
$223,451    
  
  
 
11.0
% 
 
$
203,441    
  
  
 
10.0
% 
 
$
244,642    
  
  
 
11.3
% 
 
$
217,140    
  
  
 
10.0
%  

 Hinsdale Bank
  
 
148,804    
  
  
 
12.3
  
 
 
120,808    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
149,582    
  
  
 
12.7
  
 
 
118,260    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 North Shore Bank
  
 
176,141    
  
  
 
11.2
  
 
 
157,708    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
164,869    
  
  
 
13.1
  
 
 
126,268    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Libertyville Bank
  
 
121,105    
  
  
 
13.2
  
 
 
91,887    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
117,082    
  
  
 
13.2
  
 
 
88,606    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Barrington Bank
  
 
126,516    
  
  
 
12.7
  
 
 
99,813    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
114,689    
  
  
 
12.5
  
 
 
91,849    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Crystal Lake Bank
  
 
79,963    
  
  
 
13.0
  
 
 
61,523    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
80,453    
  
  
 
14.1
  
 
 
57,234    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Northbrook Bank
  
 
149,325    
  
  
 
14.4
  
 
 
103,395    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
88,769    
  
  
 
12.3
  
 
 
72,476    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Schaumburg Bank
  
 
58,860    
  
  
 
12.9
  
 
 
45,660    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
53,608    
  
  
 
12.4
  
 
 
43,292    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Village Bank
  
 
82,743    
  
  
 
11.7
  
 
 
70,753    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
78,335    
  
  
 
13.3
  
 
 
59,129    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Beverly Bank
  
 
40,484    
  
  
 
11.7
  
 
 
34,562    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
37,825    
  
  
 
12.9
  
 
 
29,283    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Town Bank
  
 
83,099    
  
  
 
12.2
  
 
 
68,122    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
75,853    
  
  
 
12.0
  
 
 
63,444    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Wheaton Bank
  
 
59,164    
  
  
 
11.9
  
 
 
49,551    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
64,049    
  
  
 
13.8
  
 
 
46,426    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 State Bank of the Lakes
  
 
68,673    
  
  
 
11.1
  
 
 
61,683    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
62,391    
  
  
 
11.6
  
 
 
53,947    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 Old Plank Trail Bank
  
 
33,826    
  
  
 
12.2
  
 
 
27,724    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
34,442    
  
  
 
13.9
  
 
 
24,722    
  
  
 
10.0
  

 St. Charles Bank
  
 
61,738    
  
  
 
11.5
  
 
 
53,868    
  
  
 
10.0
  
 
 
36,743    
  
  
 
13.4
  
 
 
27,404    
  
  
 
10.0
  










 Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets):
   
  



 



  



 



  



 



  




 Lake Forest Bank
  
 
$202,206    
  
  
 
9.9
% 
 
$
122,065    
  
  
 
6.0
% 
 
$
172,514    
  
  
 
7.9
% 
 
$
130,284    
  
  
 
6.0
%  

 Hinsdale Bank
  
 
134,488    
  
  
 
11.1
  
 
 
72,485    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
128,769    
  
  
 
10.9
  
 
 
70,956    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 North Shore Bank
  
 
124,202    
  
  
 
7.9
  
 
 
94,625    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
114,393    
  
  
 
9.1
  
 
 
75,761    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Libertyville Bank
  
 
93,613    
  
  
 
10.2
  
 
 
55,132    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
85,958    
  
  
 
9.7
  
 
 
53,164    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Barrington Bank
  
 
119,534    
  
  
 
12.0
  
 
 
59,888    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
104,340    
  
  
 
11.4
  
 
 
55,109    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Crystal Lake Bank
  
 
73,235    
  
  
 
11.9
  
 
 
36,914    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
74,505    
  
  
 
13.0
  
 
 
34,341    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Northbrook Bank
  
 
136,273    
  
  
 
13.2
  
 
 
62,037    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
83,099    
  
  
 
11.5
  
 
 
43,486    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Schaumburg Bank
  
 
53,741    
  
  
 
11.8
  
 
 
27,396    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
45,184    
  
  
 
10.4
  
 
 
25,975    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Village Bank
  
 
77,692    
  
  
 
11.0
  
 
 
42,452    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
72,284    
  
  
 
12.2
  
 
 
35,478    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Beverly Bank
  
 
37,612    
  
  
 
10.9
  
 
 
20,737    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
35,207    
  
  
 
12.0
  
 
 
17,570    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Town Bank
  
 
75,157    
  
  
 
11.0
  
 
 
40,873    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
68,572    
  
  
 
10.8
  
 
 
38,066    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Wheaton Bank
  
 
52,911    
  
  
 
10.7
  
 
 
29,730    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
59,197    
  
  
 
12.8
  
 
 
27,856    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 State Bank of the Lakes
  
 
57,627    
  
  
 
9.3
  
 
 
37,010    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
56,800    
  
  
 
10.5
  
 
 
32,368    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Old Plank Trail Bank
  
 
29,072    
  
  
 
10.5
  
 
 
16,634    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
28,575    
  
  
 
11.6
  
 
 
14,833    
  
  
 
6.0
  

 St. Charles Bank
  
 
51,874    
  
  
 
9.6
  
 
 
32,321    
  
  
 
6.0
  
 
 
34,279    
  
  
 
12.5
  
 
 
16,442    
  
  
 
6.0
  










 Tier 1 Leverage Ratio:
   
  



 



  



 



  



 



  




 Lake Forest Bank
  
 
$202,206    
  
  
 
7.9
% 
 
$
127,653    
  
  
 
5.0
% 
 
$
172,514    
  
  
 
6.6
% 
 
$
130,398    
  
  
 
5.0
%  

 Hinsdale Bank
  
 
134,488    
  
  
 
9.2
  
 
 
73,227    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
128,769    
  
  
 
9.2
  
 
 
70,021    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 North Shore Bank
  
 
124,202    
  
  
 
7.3
  
 
 
85,389    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
114,393    
  
  
 
7.9
  
 
 
72,902    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Libertyville Bank
  
 
93,613    
  
  
 
8.1
  
 
 
58,017    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
85,958    
  
  
 
7.5
  
 
 
57,037    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Barrington Bank
  
 
119,534    
  
  
 
9.8
  
 
 
61,060    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
104,340    
  
  
 
9.1
  
 
 
57,064    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Crystal Lake Bank
  
 
73,235    
  
  
 
9.7
  
 
 
37,696    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
74,505    
  
  
 
10.4
  
 
 
36,001    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Northbrook Bank
  
 
136,273    
  
  
 
7.2
  
 
 
94,611    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
83,099    
  
  
 
7.1
  
 
 
58,447    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Schaumburg Bank
  
 
53,741    
  
  
 
9.2
  
 
 
29,335    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
45,184    
  
  
 
9.0
  
 
 
25,177    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Village Bank
  
 
77,692    
  
  
 
9.0
  
 
 
43,306    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
72,284    
  
  
 
9.5
  
 
 
38,239    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Beverly Bank
  
 
37,612    
  
  
 
9.7
  
 
 
19,446    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
35,207    
  
  
 
9.6
  
 
 
18,422    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Town Bank
  
 
75,157    
  
  
 
9.9
  
 
 
37,801    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
68,752    
  
  
 
9.8
  
 
 
34,941    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Wheaton Bank
  
 
52,911    
  
  
 
7.7
  
 
 
34,456    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
59,197    
  
  
 
8.1
  
 
 
36,433    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 State Bank of the Lakes
  
 
57,627    
  
  
 
8.0
  
 
 
35,813    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
56,800    
  
  
 
8.3
  
 
 
34,404    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 Old Plank Trail Bank
  
 
29,072    
  
  
 
9.0
  
 
 
16,137    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
28,575    
  
  
 
9.4
  
 
 
15,134    
  
  
 
5.0
  

 St. Charles Bank
  
 
51,874    
  
  
 
8.3
  
 
 
31,101    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
34,279    
  
  
 
10.3
  
 
 
16,628    
  
  
 
5.0
  
 Wintrust’s mortgage banking division and broker/dealer subsidiary are also required to maintain
minimum net worth capital requirements with various governmental agencies. The mortgage banking division’s net worth requirements are governed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the broker/dealer’s net worth
requirements are governed by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. As of December 31, 2011, these subsidiaries met their minimum net worth capital requirements. 
(21) Commitments and Contingencies 
The Company has outstanding, at any time, a number of commitments to extend credit. These commitments include
revolving home equity line and other credit agreements, term loan commitments and standby and commercial letters of credit. Standby and commercial letters of credit are conditional commitments issued to guarantee the performance of a customer to a
third party. Standby letters of credit are contingent upon the failure of the customer to perform according to the terms of the underlying contract with the third party, while commercial letters of credit are issued specifically to facilitate
commerce and typically result in the commitment being drawn on when the underlying transaction is consummated between the customer and the third party.  These commitments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Condition. Since many of the commitments are
expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The Company uses the same credit policies in making commitments as it does for on-balance sheet instruments. Commitments
to extend commercial, commercial real estate and construction loans totaled $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and unused home equity lines totaled $762.2 million and 
  126 



$829.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Standby and commercial letters of credit totaled $199.0 million at December 31, 2011 and $187.9 million at
December 31, 2010.  In addition, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had approximately $272.9 million and
$303.1 million, respectively, in commitments to fund residential mortgage loans to be sold into the secondary market. These lending commitments are also considered derivative instruments. The Company also enters into forward contracts for the future
delivery of residential mortgage loans at specified interest rates to reduce the interest rate risk associated with commitments to fund loans as well as mortgage loans held-for-sale. These forward contracts are also considered derivative instruments
and had contractual amounts of approximately $591.5 million at December 31, 2011 and $670.1 million at December 31, 2010. See Note 22 for further discussion on derivative instruments. 
The Company enters into residential mortgage loan sale agreements with investors in the normal course of business. These agreements
usually require certain representations concerning credit information, loan documentation, collateral and insurability. On occasion, investors have requested the Company to indemnify them against losses on certain loans or to repurchase loans which
the investors believe do not comply with applicable representations. Management maintains a liability for estimated losses on loans expected to be repurchased or on which indemnification is expected to be provided and regularly evaluates the
adequacy of this recourse liability based on trends in repurchase and indemnification requests, actual loss experience, known and inherent risks in the loans, and current economic conditions. 
The Company sold approximately $2.5 billion of mortgage loans in 2011 and $3.7 billion in 2010. During 2011 and 2010, the Company
provided an additional $439,000 and $11.0 million, respectively, related to loss indemnification claims for residential mortgage loans previously sold to investors. These estimated losses primarily related to mortgages obtained through wholesale and
correspondent channels which experienced early payment and other defaults meeting certain representation and warranty recourse requirements. Losses charged against the liability for estimated losses were $8.0 million and $8.1 million for 2011 and
2010, respectively. The liability for estimated losses on repurchase and indemnification was $2.5 million and $8.9 million at December 31,  2011 and 2010, respectively, and was included in other liabilities on the balance sheet.  The Company utilizes an out-sourced securities clearing platform and has agreed to indemnify the clearing broker of WHI for losses that it may sustain from the customer accounts introduced by WHI. At
December, 31, 2011, the total amount of customer balances maintained by the clearing broker and subject to indemnification was approximately $27.9 million. WHI seeks to control the risks associated with its customers’ activities by requiring
customers to maintain margin collateral in compliance with various regulatory and internal guidelines.  In the ordinary course
of business, there are legal proceedings pending against the Company and its subsidiaries. Management does not believe that a material loss related to these matters is reasonably possible. 
(22) Derivative Financial Instruments 
The Company enters into derivative financial instruments as part of its strategy to manage its exposure to changes in
interest rates. Derivative instruments represent contracts between parties that result in one party delivering cash to the other party based on a notional amount and an underlying (such as a rate, security price or price index) as specified in the
contract. The amount of cash delivered from one party to the other is determined based on the interaction of the notional amount of the contract with the underlying. Derivatives are also implicit in certain contracts and commitments. 
The derivative financial instruments currently used by the Company to manage its exposure to interest rate risk include:
(1) interest rate swaps and caps to manage the interest rate risk of certain variable rate liabilities; (2) interest rate lock commitments provided to customers to fund certain mortgage loans to be sold into the secondary market;
(3) forward commitments for the future delivery of such mortgage loans to protect the Company from adverse changes in interest rates and corresponding changes in the value of mortgage loans available-for-sale; and (4) covered call options
related to specific investment securities to enhance the overall yield on such securities. The Company also enters into derivatives (typically interest rate swaps) with certain qualified borrowers to facilitate the borrowers’ risk management
strategies and concurrently enters into mirror-image derivatives with a third party counterparty, effectively making a market in the derivatives for such borrowers.  As required by ASC 815, the Company recognizes derivative financial instruments in the consolidated financial statements at fair value regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments are included in other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, on the Consolidated Statements of Condition. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are either recognized in income or in
shareholders’ equity as a component of other comprehensive income depending on whether the derivative financial instrument qualifies for hedge accounting and, if so, whether it qualifies as a fair value hedge or cash flow hedge. Generally,
changes in fair values of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges are recorded in income in the same period and in the same income statement line as changes in the fair values of the hedged items that relate to the hedged risk(s). Changes in
fair values of derivative financial instruments accounted for as cash flow hedges, to the extent they are effective hedges, are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income, net of deferred taxes, and reclassified to earnings when the
hedged transaction affects earnings. Changes in fair values of derivative financial instruments not designated in a hedging relationship pursuant to ASC 815, 
  127 



including changes in fair value related to the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges, are reported in non-interest income during the period of the change. Derivative financial instruments are
valued by a third party and are periodically validated by comparison with valuations provided by the respective counterparties. Fair values of certain mortgage banking derivatives (interest rate lock commitments and forward commitments to sell
mortgage loans on a best efforts basis) are estimated based on changes in mortgage interest rates from the date of the loan commitment.  The table below presents the fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments as well as their classification on the Consolidated Statements of Condition as of December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010:   


























 
  
Derivative Assets
 
  
Derivative Liabilities
 

  
  
Fair Value
 
  
Fair Value
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
 Balance
Sheet
Location
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 
  
 Balance
Sheet
Location
 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments under ASC 815:
  

  



  



  



  



  












 Interest rate derivatives designated as Cash Flow Hedges
  
Other assets
  
 
$     119
  
  
 
$     —  
  
  
 
Other liabilities
  
  
 
$11,032
  
  
 
$12,986  
  









 Derivatives not designed as hedging instruments under ASC 815:
  

  



  



  



  



  












 Interest rate derivatives
  
Other assets
  
 
34,002
  
  
 
13,769
  
  
 
Other liabilities
  
  
 
33,892
  
  
 
14,226  
  

 Interest rate lock commitments
  
Other assets
  
 
4,307
  
  
 
396
  
  
 
Other liabilities
  
  
 
127
  
  
 
2,320  
  

 Forward commitments to sell mortgage loans
  
Other assets
  
 
179
  
  
 
4,505
  
  
 
Other liabilities
  
  
 
5,030
  
  
 
442  
  

 Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under ASC 815
  
 
  
 
$38,488
  
  
 
$18,670
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
$39,049
  
  
 
$16,988  
  









 Total derivatives
  
 
  
 
$38,607
  
  
 
$18,670
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
$50,081
  
  
 
$29,974  
  
 Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk  The Company’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to net interest income and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish these objectives, the
Company primarily uses interest rate swaps and interest rate caps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange
for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements without the exchange of the underlying notional amount. Interest rate caps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of payments at the end of each period in which
the interest rate specified in the contract exceeds the agreed upon strike price.  In May 2011, the Company entered into four
new interest rate derivatives, two interest rate swaps and two interest rate caps, to replace derivatives maturing in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 that hedge the variable cash outflows associated with interest expense on the Company’s
junior subordinated debentures and create a hedge associated with the interest rate expense on Wintrust Capital Trust IX which changed from a fixed rate to a variable rate in September 2011. See Note 16 – Junior Subordinated Debentures for more
detail. The two new interest rate swap derivatives as cash flow hedges have an aggregate notional amount of $75 million. The two new interest rate cap derivatives designated as cash flow hedges have an aggregate notional amount of $60 million.

  128 


As of December 31, 2011, the Company had four interest rate swaps and two interest rate
caps with an aggregate notional amount of $225 million that were designated as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk. The table below provides details on each of these cash flow hedges as of December 31, 2011: 
 












 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 (Dollars in thousands)         Maturity Date
  
NotionalAmount
 
  
Fair ValueGain (Loss)
 

 Interest Rate Swaps:
  



  




 September 2013
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
(3,918)  
  

 September 2013
  
 
40,000
  
  
 
(3,206)  
  

 September 2016
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
(2,567)  
  

 October 2016
  
 
25,000
  
  
 
(1,341)  
  

 Total Interest Rate Swaps
  
 
165,000
  
  
 
(11,032)  
  





 Interest Rate Caps:
  



  




 September 2014
  
 
20,000
  
  
 
40   
  

 September 2014
  
 
40,000
  
  
 
79   
  

 Total Interest Rate Caps
  
 
60,000
  
  
 
119   
  

 Total Cash Flow Hedges
  
$
225,000
  
  
$
(10,913)  
  
 Since entering into these interest rate derivatives, the Company has used them to hedge the variable cash
outflows associated with interest expense on the Company’s junior subordinated debentures. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of these cash flow hedges is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and is subsequently
reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company’s variable rate junior subordinated debentures. The changes in fair value (net of tax) are separately disclosed in the statements of changes in shareholders’
equity as a component of comprehensive income. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of these derivatives is recognized directly in earnings; however, no hedge ineffectiveness was recognized during 2011 or 2010. The Company uses the
hypothetical derivative method to assess and measure effectiveness.  A rollforward of the amounts in accumulated other
comprehensive income related to interest rate derivatives designated as cash flow hedges follows:   












 
  
December 31,
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Unrealized loss at beginning of period
  
$
(13,323
) 
 
$
(15,487
) 

 Amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest expense on junior subordinated
debentures
  
 
8,120
  
 
 
8,736
  

 Amount of loss recognized in other comprehensive income
  
 
(6,430
) 
 
 
(6,572
) 

 Unrealized loss at end of period
  
$
(11,633
) 
 
$
(13,323
) 
 As of December 31, 2011, the Company estimates that during the next twelve months, $5.5 million will
be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income as an increase to interest expense.  Non-Designated Hedges 
The Company does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. Derivatives not designated as hedges are used to manage the Company’s
exposure to interest rate movements and other identified risks but do not meet the strict hedge accounting requirements of ASC 815. Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated in hedging relationships are recorded directly in earnings.
 Interest Rate Derivatives — The Company has interest rate derivatives, including swaps and option products,
resulting from a service the Company provides to certain qualified borrowers. The Company’s banking subsidiaries execute certain derivative products (typically interest rate swaps) directly with qualified commercial borrowers to facilitate
their respective risk management strategies. For example, doing so allows the Company’s commercial borrowers to effectively convert a variable rate loan to a fixed rate. In order to minimize the Company’s exposure on these transactions,
the Company simultaneously executes offsetting derivatives with third parties. In most cases the offsetting derivatives have mirror-image terms, which result in the positions’ changes in fair value substantially offsetting through earnings each
period. However, to the extent that the derivatives are not a mirror-image and because of differences in counterparty credit risk, changes in fair value will not completely offset resulting in some earnings impact each period. Changes in the fair
value of these derivatives are included in other non-interest income. At December 31, 2011, the Company had interest rate derivative transactions with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $1.3 billion (all interest rate swaps) related
to this program. These interest rate derivatives had maturity dates ranging from February 2012 to January 2033. 
  129 


Mortgage Banking Derivatives — These derivatives include interest rate lock
commitments provided to customers to fund certain mortgage loans to be sold into the secondary market and forward commitments for the future delivery of such loans. It is the Company’s practice to enter into forward commitments for the future
delivery of residential mortgage loans when interest rate lock commitments are entered into in order to economically hedge the effect of future changes in interest rates on its commitments to fund the loans as well as on its portfolio of mortgage
loans held-for-sale. The Company’s mortgage banking derivatives have not been designated as being in hedge relationships. At December 31, 2011, the Company had forward commitments to sell mortgage loans with an aggregate notional amount of
approximately $591.5 million. At December 31, 2011, the Company had interest rate lock commitments with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $272.9 million. Additionally, the Company’s total mortgage loans held-for-sale at
December 31, 2011 was $320.5 million. The fair values of these derivatives were estimated based on changes in mortgage rates from the dates of the commitments. Changes in the fair value of these mortgage banking derivatives are included in
mortgage banking revenue.  Other Derivatives — Periodically, the Company will sell options to a bank or dealer for
the right to purchase certain securities held within the Banks’ investment portfolios (covered call options). These option transactions are designed primarily to increase the total return associated with the investment securities portfolio.
These options do not qualify as hedges pursuant to ASC 815, and, accordingly, changes in fair value of these contracts are recognized as other non-interest income. There were no covered call options outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010.  Amounts included in the consolidated statements of income related to derivative instruments not
designated in hedge relationships were as follows:   














(Dollars in thousands)
  
 
  
December 31,
 

Derivative
  
Location in income statement
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Interest rate swaps and floors
  
Other income
  
$
42
  
 
$
(59
) 

 Mortgage banking derivatives
  
Mortgage banking revenue
  
 
(1,301
) 
 
 
286
  

 Covered call options
  
Fees from covered call options
  
 
13,570
  
 
 
2,235
  
 Credit Risk  Derivative instruments have inherent risks, primarily market risk and credit risk. Market risk is associated with changes in interest rates and credit risk relates to the risk that the counterparty will
fail to perform according to the terms of the agreement. The amounts potentially subject to market and credit risks are the streams of interest payments under the contracts and the market value of the derivative instrument and not the notional
principal amounts used to express the volume of the transactions. Market and credit risks are managed and monitored as part of the Company’s overall asset-liability management process, except that the credit risk related to derivatives entered
into with certain qualified borrowers is managed through the Company’s standard loan underwriting process since these derivatives are secured through collateral provided by the loan agreements. Actual exposures are monitored against various
types of credit limits established to contain risk within parameters. When deemed necessary, appropriate types and amounts of collateral are obtained to minimize credit exposure. 
The Company has agreements with certain of its interest rate derivative counterparties that contain cross-default provisions, which
provide that if the Company defaults on any of its indebtedness, including default where repayment of the indebtedness has not been accelerated by the lender, then the Company could also be declared in default on its derivative obligations. The
Company also has agreements with certain of its derivative counterparties that contain a provision allowing the counter party to terminate the derivative positions if the Company fails to maintain its status as a well or adequate capitalized
institution, which would require the Company to settle its obligations under the agreements. As of December 31, 2011 the fair value of interest rate derivatives in a net liability position, which includes accrued interest related to these
agreements, was $46.0 million. As of December 31, 2011 the Company has minimum collateral posting thresholds with certain of its derivative counterparties and has posted collateral consisting of $7.4 million of cash and $33.3 million of
securities. If the Company had breached any of these provisions at December 31, 2011 it would have been required to settle its obligations under the agreements at the termination value and would have been required to pay any additional amounts
due in excess of amounts previously posted as collateral with the respective counterparty.  The Company is also exposed to the
credit risk of its commercial borrowers who are counterparties to interest rate derivatives with the Banks. This counterparty risk related to the commercial borrowers is managed and monitored through the Banks’ standard underwriting process
applicable to loans since these derivatives are secured through collateral provided by the loan agreement. The counterparty risk associated with the mirror-image swaps executed with third parties is monitored and managed in connection with the
Company’s overall asset liability management process. 
  130 


(23) Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities 
The Company measures, monitors and discloses certain of its assets and liabilities on a fair value basis. These
financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value in three levels, based on the markets in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the observability of the assumptions used to determine fair value. These levels are:
  


 
•
 
 Level 1 — unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
 


 
•
 
 Level 2 — inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or
indirectly. These include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the
asset or liability or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.   


 
•
 
 Level 3 — significant unobservable inputs that reflect the Company’s own assumptions that market participants would use in pricing
the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of
fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.  A financial instrument’s
categorization within the above valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in
its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the assets or liabilities. Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the Company’s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
 Available-for-sale and trading account securities — Fair values for available-for-sale and trading securities are
typically based on prices obtained from independent pricing vendors. Securities measured with these valuation techniques are generally classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Typically, standard inputs such as benchmark yields, reported
trades for similar securities, issuer spreads, benchmark securities, bids, offers and reference data including market research publications are used to fair value a security. When these inputs are not available, broker/dealer quotes may be obtained
by the vendor to determine the fair value of the security. We review the vendor’s pricing methodologies to determine if observable market information is being used, versus unobservable inputs. Fair value measurements using significant inputs
that are unobservable in the market due to limited activity or a less liquid market are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Such measurements include securities valued using internal valuation techniques where the unobservable inputs
are significant to the overall fair value measurement.  Mortgage loans held-for-sale — Mortgage loans originated
by Wintrust Mortgage are carried at fair value. The fair value of mortgage loans held-for-sale is determined by reference to investor price sheets for loan products with similar characteristics. 
Mortgage servicing rights — Fair value for mortgage servicing rights is determined utilizing a third party valuation model
which stratifies the servicing rights into pools based on product type and interest rate. The fair value of each servicing rights pool is calculated based on the present value of estimated future cash flows using a discount rate commensurate with
the risk associated with that pool, given current market conditions. Estimates of fair value include assumptions about prepayment speeds, interest rates and other factors which are subject to change over time. 
Derivative instruments — The Company’s derivative instruments include interest rate swaps and caps, commitments to fund
mortgages for sale into the secondary market (interest rate locks) and forward commitments to end investors for the sale of mortgage loans. Interest rate swaps are valued by a third party, using models that primarily use market observable inputs,
such as yield curves, and are validated by comparison with valuations provided by the respective counterparties. The fair value for mortgage derivatives is based on changes in mortgage rates from the date of the commitments. 
Nonqualified deferred compensation assets — The underlying assets relating to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan are
included in a trust and primarily consist of non-exchange traded institutional funds which are priced based by an independent third party service. 
  131 


The following tables present the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value
on a recurring basis for the periods presented:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Total
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 

 Available-for-sale securities
  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury
  
$
16,173
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
16,173
  
  
$
—
  

 U.S. Government agencies
  
 
765,916
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
765,916
  
  
 
—
  

 Municipal
  
 
60,098
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
35,887
  
  
 
24,211
  

 Corporate notes and other
  
 
169,936
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
169,936
  
  
 
—
  

 Mortgage-backed
  
 
248,551
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
248,551
  
  
 
—
  

 Equity securities
  
 
31,123
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
12,152
  
  
 
18,971
  

 Trading account securities
  
 
2,490
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,490
  
  
 
—
  

 Mortgage loans held-for-sale
  
 
306,838
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
306,838
  
  
 
—
  

 Mortgage servicing rights
  
 
6,700
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
6,700
  

 Nonqualified deferred compensations assets
  
 
4,299
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,299
  
  
 
—
  

 Derivative assets
  
 
38,607
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
38,607
  
  
 
—
  

 Total
  
$
1,650,731
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
1,600,849
  
  
$
49,882
  







 Derivative liabilities
  
$
50,081
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
50,081
  
  
$
—
  




 
  
December 31, 2010
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Total
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 

 Available-for-sale securities
  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury
  
$
96,097
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
96,097
  
  
$
—
  

 U.S. Government agencies
  
 
884,055
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
884,055
  
  
 
—
  

 Municipal
  
 
52,303
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
35,887
  
  
 
16,416
  

 Corporate notes and other
  
 
261,915
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
252,074
  
  
 
9,841
  

 Mortgage-backed
  
 
161,681
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
159,221
  
  
 
2,460
  

 Equity securities
  
 
40,251
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
11,579
  
  
 
28,672
  

 Trading account securities
  
 
4,879
  
  
 
71
  
  
 
436
  
  
 
4,372
  

 Mortgage loans held-for-sale
  
 
356,662
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
356,662
  
  
 
—
  

 Mortgage servicing rights
  
 
8,762
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
8,762
  

 Nonqualified deferred compensations assets
  
 
3,613
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,613
  
  
 
—
  

 Derivative assets
  
 
18,670
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
18,670
  
  
 
—
  

 Total
  
$
1,888,888
  
  
$
71
  
  
$
1,818,294
  
  
$
70,523
  







 Derivative liabilities
  
$
29,974
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
29,974
  
  
$
—
  
 The aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
for mortgage loans held- for-sale measured at fair value under ASC 825 was $300.0 million and $353.1 million, respectively, while the aggregate fair value of mortgage loans held-for-sale was $306.8 million and $356.7 million, respectively, as shown
in the above tables. There were no nonaccrual loans or loans past due greater than 90 days and still accruing in the mortgage loans held-for-sale portfolio measured at fair value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
The changes in Level 3 assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis during the year ended December 31, 2011 are summarized as
follows:   
































(Dollars in thousands)
  
U.S.Agencies
 
  
Municipal
 
 
Corporatenotes andother debt
 
 
Mortgage-backed
 
 
Equitysecurities
 
 
TradingAccountSecurities
 
 
Mortgageservicingrights
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
$
—
  
  
$
16,416
  
 
$
9,841
  
 
$
2,460
  
 
$
28,672
  
 
$
4,372
  
 
$
8,762
  

 Total net gains (losses) included in:
  



  



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income (1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(274
) 
 
 
(53
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,062
) 

 Other comprehensive income
  
 
—
  
  
 
77
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(6,101
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Purchases
  
 
—
  
  
 
26,425
  
 
 
7,246
  
 
 
1,126
  
 
 
1,800
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Issuances
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Sales
  
 
—
  
  
 
(19,469
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4,372
) 
 
 
—
  

 Settlements
  
 
—
  
  
 
(1,230
) 
 
 
(333
) 
 
 
(116
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Net transfers into (out of) Level 3 (2)
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,992
  
 
 
(16,480
) 
 
 
(3,417
) 
 
 
(5,400
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
—
  
  
$
24,211
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
18,971
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
6,700
  
  


(1)
 Income for Corporate notes and other debt, and mortgage-backed are recognized as a component of interest income on securities. Additionally,
changes in the balance of mortgage servicing rights are recorded as a component of mortgage banking revenue in non-interest income.   


(2)
 The transfer of available for sale securities into Level 3 is the result of the use of significant inputs that are unobservable in the market due
to limited activity or a less liquid market. Transfers out of Level 3 result from the availability and use of observable market information that market participatnts would use in pricing these securities. Transfers into/out of Level 3 are recognized
at the end of the reporting period. 
  132 


The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
during the year ended December 31, 2010 are summarized as follows:   
































(Dollars in thousands)
  
Municipal
 
 
Corporatenotes andother debt
 
 
Mortgage-backed
 
 
Equitysecurities
 
 
TradingAccountSecurities
 
 
Mortgageservicingrights
 
  
Retainedinterests
 

 Balance at January 1, 2010
  
$
17,152
  
 
$
51,194
  
 
$
158,449
  
 
$
26,800
  
 
$
31,924
  
 
$
6,745
  
  
$
43,541
  

 Total net gains (losses) included in:
  



 



 



 



 



 



  




 Net income (1)
  
 
—
  
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
(7,947
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,140
  
 
 
2,017
  
  
 
—
  

 Other comprehensive income
  
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
2,520
  
 
 
(419
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Purchases, issuances, sales and settlements, net
  
 
3,551
  
 
 
(40,781
) 
 
 
(145,736
) 
 
 
2,291
  
 
 
(32,692
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
(43,541
) 

 Net transfers out of Level 3
  
 
(4,287
) 
 
 
(538
) 
 
 
(4,826
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
16,416
  
 
$
9,841
  
 
$
2,460
  
 
$
28,672
  
 
$
4,372
  
 
$
8,762
  
  
$
—
  
  


(1)
 Income for Corporate notes, other debt and mortgage-backed is recognized as a component of interest income on securities. Income for trading
account securities is recognized as a component of trading income in non-interest income and trading account securities interest income. Changes in the balance of mortgage servicing rights are recorded as a component of mortgage banking revenue in
non-interest income.  Also, the Company may be required, from time to time, to measure certain other
financial assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in accordance with GAAP. These adjustments to fair value usually result from application of lower of cost or market accounting or impairment charges of individual assets. For assets measured at
fair value on a nonrecurring basis that were still held in the balance sheet at the end of the period, the following table provides the carrying value of the related individual assets or portfolios at December 31, 2011. 
 
























 
  
    
   
December 31, 2011
 
  

Twelve MonthsEndedDecember 31,2011 Fair ValueLosses (Gains) Recognized
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
Total
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  

 Impaired loans
  
$
226,538
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
226,538
  
  
$
48,461
  

 Other real estate owned
  
 
86,523
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
86,523
  
  
 
26,620
  

 Mortgage loans held-for-sale, at lower of cost or market
  
 
13,686
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
13,686
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(358
) 

 Total
  
$
326,747
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
13,686
  
  
$
313,061
  
  
$
74,723
  
 Impaired loans — A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current information and
events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due pursuant to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. A loan restructured in a troubled debt restructuring is an impaired loan according to applicable accounting
guidance. Impairment is measured by estimating the fair value of the loan based on the present value of expected cash flows, the market price of the loan, or the fair value of the underlying collateral. Impaired loans are considered a fair value
measurement where an allowance is established based on the fair value of collateral. Appraised values, which may require adjustments to market-based valuation inputs, are generally used on real estate collateral-dependant impaired loans. 
Other real estate owned — Other real estate owned is comprised of real estate acquired in partial or full satisfaction of
loans and is included in other assets. Other real estate owned is recorded at its estimated fair value less estimated selling costs at the date of transfer, with any excess of the related loan balance over the fair value less expected selling costs
charged to the allowance for loan losses. Subsequent changes in value are reported as adjustments to the carrying amount and are recorded in other non-interest expense. Gains and losses upon sale, if any, are also charged to other non-interest
expense. Fair value is generally based on third party appraisals and internal estimates and is therefore considered a Level 3 valuation.  Mortgage loans held-for-sale, at lower of cost or market — Fair value is based on either quoted prices for the same or similar loans, or values obtained from third parties, or is estimated for
portfolios of loans with similar financial characteristics and is therefore considered a Level 2 valuation. 
  133 


The Company is required under applicable accounting guidance to report the fair value of all
financial instruments on the consolidated statements of condition, including those financial instruments carried at cost. The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments as of the dates shown: 
 






















 
  
At December 31, 2011
 
  
  
  
At December 31, 2010
 

(Dollars in thousands)
  
CarryingValue
 
  
 Fair
Value
 
  
  
  
 Carrying
Value
 
  
 Fair
Value
 

 Financial Assets:
  



  



  

  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
169,704
  
  
$
169,704
  
  

  
$
172,580
  
  
$
172,580
  

 Interest bearing deposits with banks
  
 
749,287
  
  
 
749,287
  
  

  
 
865,575
  
  
 
865,575
  

 Available-for-sale securities
  
 
1,291,797
  
  
 
1,291,797
  
  

  
 
1,496,302
  
  
 
1,496,302
  

 Trading account securities
  
 
2,490
  
  
 
2,490
  
  

  
 
4,879
  
  
 
4,879
  

 Brokerage customer receivables
  
 
27,925
  
  
 
27,925
  
  

  
 
24,549
  
  
 
24,549
  

 Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal
  



  



  

  



  




 Reserve Bank stock, at cost
  
 
100,434
  
  
 
100,434
  
  

  
 
82,407
  
  
 
82,407
  

 Mortgage loans held-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
306,838
  
  
 
306,838
  
  

  
 
356,662
  
  
 
356,662
  

 Mortgage loans held-for-sale, at lower of cost or market
  
 
13,686
  
  
 
13,897
  
  

  
 
14,785
  
  
 
14,841
  

 Total loans
  
 
11,172,745
  
  
 
11,590,729
  
  

  
 
9,934,239
  
  
 
10,088,429
  

 Mortgage servicing rights
  
 
6,700
  
  
 
6,700
  
  

  
 
8,762
  
  
 
8,762
  

 Nonqualified deferred compensation assets
  
 
4,299
  
  
 
4,299
  
  

  
 
3,613
  
  
 
3,613
  

 Derivative assets
  
 
38,607
  
  
 
38,607
  
  

  
 
18,670
  
  
 
18,670
  

 FDIC indemnification asset
  
 
344,251
  
  
 
344,251
  
  

  
 
118,182
  
  
 
118,182
  

 Accrued interest receivable and other
  
 
147,207
  
  
 
147,207
  
  
 
  
 
137,744
  
  
 
137,744
  

 Total financial assets
  
$
14,375,970
  
  
$
14,794,165
  
  
 
  
$
13,238,949
  
  
$
13,393,195
  








 Financial Liabilities
  



  



  

  



  




 Non-maturity deposits
  
$
7,424,367
  
  
 
7,424,367
  
  

  
$
5,925,761
  
  
$
5,925,761
  

 Deposits with stated maturities
  
 
4,882,900
  
  
 
4,917,740
  
  

  
 
4,877,912
  
  
 
4,925,403
  

 Notes payable
  
 
52,822
  
  
 
52,822
  
  

  
 
1,000
  
  
 
1,000
  

 Federal Home Loan Bank advances
  
 
474,481
  
  
 
507,368
  
  

  
 
423,500
  
  
 
440,644
  

 Subordinated notes
  
 
35,000
  
  
 
35,000
  
  

  
 
50,000
  
  
 
50,000
  

 Other borrowings
  
 
443,753
  
  
 
443,753
  
  

  
 
260,620
  
  
 
260,620
  

 Secured borrowings owed to securitization investors
  
 
600,000
  
  
 
603,294
  
  

  
 
600,000
  
  
 
600,333
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
  
 
249,493
  
  
 
185,199
  
  

  
 
249,493
  
  
 
183,818
  

 Derivative liabilities
  
 
50,081
  
  
 
50,081
  
  

  
 
29,974
  
  
 
29,974
  

 Accrued interest payable and other
  
 
12,952
  
  
 
12,952
  
  
 
  
 
15,518
  
  
 
15,518
  

 Total financial liabilities
  
$
14,225,849
  
  
$
14,232,576
  
  
 
  
$
12,433,778
  
  
$
12,433,071
  
 The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating fair values of financial
instruments that were not previously disclosed.  Cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include cash and
demand balances from banks, Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value due to the short maturity of those instruments. 
Interest bearing deposits with banks. The carrying value of interest bearing deposits with banks approximates fair value due to
the short maturity of those instruments.  Brokerage customer receivables. The carrying value of brokerage customer
receivables approximates fair value due to the relatively short period of time to repricing of variable interest rates. 
Loans held-for-sale, at lower of cost or market. Fair value is based on either quoted prices for the same or similar loans, or
values obtained from third parties, or is estimated for portfolios of loans with similar financial characteristics.  Loans.
Fair values are estimated for portfolios of loans with similar financial characteristics. Loans are analyzed by type such as commercial, residential real estate, etc. Each category is further segmented by interest rate type (fixed and variable)
and term. For variable-rate loans that reprice frequently, estimated fair values are based on carrying values. The fair value of residential loans is based on secondary market sources for securities backed by similar loans, adjusted for differences
in loan characteristics. The fair value for other fixed rate loans is estimated by discounting scheduled cash flows through the estimated maturity using estimated market discount rates that reflect credit and interest rate risks inherent in the
loan. The primary impact of credit risk on the present value of the loan portfolio, however, was accommodated through the use of the allowance for loan losses, which is believed to represent the current fair value of probable incurred losses for
purposes of the fair value calculation. 
  134 


FDIC indemnification asset. The fair value of the FDIC indemnification asset is
based on the discounted value of cash flows to be received from the FDIC.  Accrued interest receivable and accrued interest
payable. The carrying values of accrued interest receivable and accrued interest payable approximate market values due to the relatively short period of time to expected realization. 
Deposit liabilities. The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, such as non-interest bearing deposits, savings, NOW
accounts and money market accounts, is equal to the amount payable on demand as of period-end (i.e. the carrying value). The fair value of certificates of deposit is based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. The discount rate is
estimated using the rates currently in effect for deposits of similar remaining maturities.  Notes payable. The
carrying value of notes payable approximates fair value due to the relatively short period of time to repricing of variable interest rates.  Federal Home Loan Bank advances. The fair value of Federal Home Loan Bank advances is obtained from the Federal Home Loan Bank which uses a discounted cash flow analysis based on current market
rates of similar maturity debt securities to discount cash flows.  Subordinated notes. The carrying value of the
subordinated notes payable approximates fair value due to the relatively short period of time to repricing of variable interest rates.  Other borrowings. The carrying value of other borrowings approximates fair value primarily due to the relatively short period of time to maturity or repricing. Other borrowings also includes the
debt component of the Company’s issuance of tangible equity units. The fair value of the debt component is based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. The discount rate is estimated using the rates currently in effect for debt
securities of similar remaining maturities.  Junior subordinated debentures. The fair value of the junior subordinated
debentures is based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. 
(24) Shareholders’ Equity 
A summary of the Company’s common and preferred stock at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 


  
  
  
 

 Common Stock:
  



  




 Shares authorized
  
 
60,000,000
  
  
 
60,000,000
  

 Shares issued
  
 
35,981,950
  
  
 
34,864,068
  

 Shares outstanding
  
 
35,978,349
  
  
 
34,864,068
  

 Cash dividend per share
  
$
0.18
  
  
$
0.18
  





 Preferred Stock:
  



  




 Shares authorized
  
 
20,000,000
  
  
 
20,000,000
  

 Shares issued
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
50,000
  

 Shares outstanding
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
50,000
  
 The Company reserves shares of its authorized common stock specifically for its Stock Incentive Plan, its
Employee Stock Purchase Plan and its Directors Deferred Fee and Stock Plan. The reserved shares and these plans are detailed in Note 19 -Employee Benefit and Stock Plans.  Common Stock Offering  In March 2010, the Company issued through a public
offering a total of 6.7 million shares of its common stock at $33.25 per share. Net proceeds to the Company totaled $210.3 million. Additionally, in December 2010, the Company issued through a public offering a total of 3.7 million shares
of common stock at $30.00 per share. Net proceeds to the Company totaled $104.8 million.  Tangible Equity Units
 In December 2010, the Company sold 4.6 million 7.50% tangible equity units at a public offering price of $50.00 per
unit. The Company received net proceeds of $222.7 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. Each tangible equity unit is composed of a prepaid common stock purchase contract and a junior
subordinated amortizing note due December 15, 2013. The prepaid stock purchase contracts have been recorded as surplus (a component of shareholders’ 
  135 



equity), net of issuance costs, and the junior subordinated amortizing notes have been recorded as debt within other borrowings. Issuance costs associated with the debt component are recorded as
a discount within other borrowings and will be amortized over the term of the instrument to December 15, 2013. The Company allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEU to equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the
respective components of each unit. The aggregate fair values assigned to each component of the TEU offering are as follows:   
















(Dollars in thousands, except per unit amounts)
  
EquityComponent
 
  
DebtComponent
 
  
 TEU
Total
 

 Units issued (1)
  
 
4,600
  
  
 
4,600
  
  
 
4,600
  

 Unit price
  
$
40.271818
  
  
$
9.728182
  
  
$
50.00
  

 Gross proceeds
  
 
185,250
  
  
 
44,750
  
  
 
230,000
  

 Issuance costs, including discount
  
 
5,934
  
  
 
1,419
  
  
 
7,353
  

 Net proceeds
  
$
179,316
  
  
$
43,331
  
  
$
222,647
  






 Balance sheet impact 
  



  



  




 Other borrowings
  
 
—
  
  
 
43,331
  
  
 
43,331
  

 Surplus
  
 
179,316
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
179,316
  
  


(1)
 TEUs consist of two components: one unit of the equity component and one unit of the debt component. 
The fair value of the debt component was determined using a discounted cash flow model using the following assumptions:
(1) quarterly cash payments of 7.5%; (2) a maturity date of December 15, 2013; and (3) an assumed discount rate of 9.5%. The discount rate used for estimating the fair value was determined by obtaining yields for comparably-rated
issuers trading in the market. The debt component was recorded at fair value, and the discount is being amortized using the level yield method over the term of the instrument to the settlement date of December 15, 2013. 
The fair value of the equity component was determined using Black-Scholes valuation models applied to the range of stock prices
contemplated by the terms of the TEU and using the following assumptions: (1) risk-free interest rate of 0.95%; (2) expected stock price volatility in the range of 35%-45%; (c) dividend yield plus stock borrow cost of 0.85%; and
(4) term of 3.02 years.  Each junior subordinated amortizing note, which had an initial principal amount of $9.728182, is
bearing interest at 9.50% per annum, and has a scheduled final installment payment date of December 15, 2013. On each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, the Company will pay equal quarterly
installments of $0.9375 on each amortizing note. The quarterly installment payable at March 15, 2011, however, was $0.989583. Each payment will constitute a payment of interest and a partial repayment of principal. The Company may defer
installment payments at any time and from time to time, under certain circumstances and subject to certain conditions, by extending the installment period so long as such period of time does not extend beyond December 15, 2015. 
Each prepaid common stock purchase contract will automatically settle on December 15, 2013 and the Company will deliver not more
than 1.6666 shares and not less than 1.3333 shares of its common stock based on the applicable market value (the average of the volume weighted average price of Company common stock for the twenty (20) consecutive trading days ending on the
third trading day immediately preceding December 15, 2013) as follows:   






 Applicable market value of Company common stock 
  
Settlement Rate

 Less than or equal to $30.00
  
1.6666

 Greater than $30.00 but less than $37.50
  
$50.00, divided by the applicable market value

 Greater than or equal to $37.50
  
1.3333
 At any time prior to the third business day immediately preceding December 15, 2013, the holder may
settle the purchase contract early and receive 1.3333 shares of Company common stock, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. Upon settlement, an amount equal to $1.00 per common share issued will be reclassified from additional paid-in capital to
common stock.  Series A Preferred Stock  In August 2008, the Company issued and sold 50,000 shares of non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred stock, Series A, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (the “Series A Preferred
Stock”) for $50 million in a private transaction. If declared, dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are payable quarterly in arrears at a rate of 8.00% per annum. The Series A Preferred Stock is convertible into common stock at the
option of the holder at a conversion rate of 38.88 shares of common stock per share of Series A Preferred Stock. On and after August 26, 2010, the Series A Preferred Stock will be subject to mandatory conversion into common

  136 



stock in connection with a fundamental transaction, or on and after August 26, 2013 if the closing price of the Company’s common stock exceeds a certain amount. 
Series B Preferred Stock 
Pursuant to the U.S. Treasury’s CPP, on December 19, 2008, the Company issued to the U.S. Treasury, in exchange for aggregate
consideration of $250 million, (i) 250,000 shares of the Company’s fixed rate cumulative perpetual preferred Stock, Series B, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (the “Series B Preferred Stock”), and (ii) a warrant to
purchase 1,643,295 shares of Wintrust common stock at a per share exercise price of $22.82 and with a term of 10 years. The Series B Preferred Stock paid a cumulative dividend at a coupon rate of 5%. 
In December 2010, the Company repurchased all 250,000 shares of its Series B Preferred Stock. The Series B Preferred Stock was
repurchased at a price of $251.3 million, which included accrued and unpaid dividends of $1.3 million. The repurchase of the Series B Preferred Stock resulted in a non-cash deemed preferred stock dividend that reduced net income applicable to common
shares in the fourth quarter of 2010 by approximately $11.4 million. This amount represents the difference between the repurchase price and the carrying amount of the Series B Preferred Stock, or the accelerated accretion of the applicable discount
on the preferred shares. In February 2011, the U.S. Treasury sold all of its interest in the warrant issued to it in a secondary underwritten public offering.  Other  In July 2011, the Company issued 529,087 shares of its common stock
in the acquisition of Great Lakes Advisors. In September 2011, the Company issued 353,650 shares of its common stock in the acquisition of ESBI.  The Company previously issued other warrants to acquire common stock. These warrants entitle the holders to purchase one share of the Company’s common stock at a purchase price of $30.50 per share.
Warrants outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010 totaled 19,000. The expiration date on these remaining outstanding warrants is February 2013.  At the January 2012 Board of Directors meeting, a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.09 per share ($0.18 on an annualized basis) was declared. It was paid on February 23, 2012 to shareholders of record
as of February 9, 2012.  The following table summarizes the components of other comprehensive income (loss), including
the related income tax effects, for the years ending December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:   
















(In thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Unrealized net gains on available-for-sale securities
  
$
4,467
  
 
$
9,579
  
 
$
680
  

 Related tax expense
  
 
(1,862
) 
 
 
(3,754
) 
 
 
(277
) 

 Net after tax unrealized ganis on available-for-sale securities
  
 
2,605
  
 
 
5,825
  
 
 
403
  






 Less: reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) realized in net income during the year
  
$
1,792
  
 
$
9,832
  
 
$
(268
) 

 Related tax expense (benefit)
  
 
(712
) 
 
 
(3,787
) 
 
 
103
  

 Net after reclassification adjustment
  
 
1,080
  
 
 
6,045
  
 
 
(165
) 






 Cumulative effect of change in accounting
  
 
—
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
309
  

 Unrealized net gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, net of reclassification adjustment
  
 
1,525
  
 
 
(64
) 
 
 
877
  






 Unrealized net gains (losses) on derivative used as cash flow hedges
  
 
1,690
  
 
 
2,164
  
 
 
5,062
  

 Related tax (expense) benefit
  
 
(581
) 
 
 
(834
) 
 
 
(1,950
) 

 After-tax unrealized net gains (losses) on derivatives used as cash flow hedges
  
 
1,109
  
 
 
1,330
  
 
 
3,112
  






 Total other comprehensive income
  
 
2,634
  
 
 
1,266
  
 
 
3,989
  
 A roll-forward of the change in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the years ending
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows:   
















(In thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss at beginning of year
  
$
(5,512
) 
 
$
(6,622
) 
 
$
(10,302
) 

 Cumulative effect of change in accounting
  
 
—
  
 
 
(156
) 
 
 
(309
) 

 Other comprehensive income
  
 
2,634
  
 
 
1,266
  
 
 
3,989
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss at end of year
  
 
(2,878
) 
 
 
(5,512
) 
 
 
(6,622
) 
 Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is comprised of the following components:
  
















(In thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Accumulated unrealized gains on securities available-for-sale
  
$
4,204
  
 
$
2,679
  
 
$
2,899
  

 Accumulated unrealized losses on derivatives used as cash flow hedges
  
 
(7,082
) 
 
 
(8,191
) 
 
 
(9,521
) 

 Total accumulated other comprehensive loss at end of year
  
 
(2,878
) 
 
 
(5,512
) 
 
 
(6,622
) 

  137 


(25) Segment Information 
The Company’s operations consist of three primary segments: community banking, specialty finance and wealth
management.  The three reportable segments are strategic business units that are separately managed as they offer different
products and services and have different marketing strategies. In addition, each segment’s customer base has varying characteristics. The community banking segment has a different regulatory environment than the specialty finance and wealth
management segments. While the Company’s management monitors each of the fifteen bank subsidiaries’ operations and profitability separately, these subsidiaries have been aggregated into one reportable operating segment due to the
similarities in products and services, customer base, operations, profitability measures, and economic characteristics.  The
net interest income, net revenue and segment profit of the community banking segment includes income and related interest costs from portfolio loans that were purchased from the specialty finance segment. For purposes of internal segment
profitability analysis, management reviews the results of its specialty finance segment as if all loans originated and sold to the community banking segment were retained within that segment’s operations, thereby causing intersegment
eliminations. Similarly, for purposes of analyzing the contribution from the wealth management segment, management allocates a portion of the net interest income earned by the community banking segment on deposit balances of customers of the wealth
management segment to the wealth management segment. See Note 11 — Deposits, for more information on these deposits.  The
segment financial information provided in the following tables has been derived from the internal profitability reporting system used by management to monitor and manage the financial performance of the Company. The accounting policies of the
segments are generally the same as those described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1. The Company evaluates segment performance based on after-tax profit or loss and other appropriate profitability measures common to each
segment. Certain indirect expenses have been allocated based on actual volume measurements and other criteria, as appropriate. Intersegment revenue and transfers are generally accounted for at current market prices. The parent and intersegment
eliminations reflect parent company information and intersegment eliminations. In the first quarter of 2009, the Company combined the premium finance and Tricom segments into the specialty finance segment. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of
2009, the contribution attributable to the wealth management deposits was redefined to measure the value as an alternative source of funding for each bank. In previous periods, the contribution from these deposits was measured as the full net
interest income contribution. The redefined measure better reflects the value of these deposits to the Company. 
  138 


The following is a summary of certain operating information for reportable segments (in
thousands):   
























 
  
CommunityBanking
 
 
SpecialtyFinance
 
  
WealthManagement
 
  
Parent &IntersegmentEliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 2011 
  



 



  



  



 




 Net interest income (expense)
  
$
428,068
  
 
 
112,508
  
  
 
8,460
  
  
 
(87,659
) 
 
 
461,377
  

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
102,544
  
 
 
864
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(770
) 
 
 
102,638
  

 Noninterest income
  
 
140,392
  
 
 
3,071
  
  
 
54,940
  
  
 
(8,705
) 
 
 
189,698
  

 Noninterest expense
  
 
331,006
  
 
 
28,876
  
  
 
51,431
  
  
 
9,091
  
 
 
420,404
  

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
51,338
  
 
 
39,427
  
  
 
4,879
  
  
 
(45,186
) 
 
 
50,458
  

 Net income (loss)
  
$
83,572
  
 
 
46,412
  
  
 
7,090
  
  
 
(59,499
) 
 
 
77,575
  








 Total assets at end of year
  
$
15,188,133
  
 
 
3,271,323
  
  
 
92,089
  
  
 
(2,657,737
) 
 
 
15,893,808
  








 2010 
  



 



  



  



 




 Net interest income (expense)
  
$
386,594
  
 
 
89,870
  
  
 
12,275
  
  
 
(72,903
) 
 
 
415,836
  

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
105,018
  
 
 
22,586
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(2,940
) 
 
 
124,664
  

 Noninterest income
  
 
133,110
  
 
 
13,643
  
  
 
45,447
  
  
 
(40
) 
 
 
192,160
  

 Noninterest expense
  
 
304,223
  
 
 
27,021
  
  
 
46,576
  
  
 
4,705
  
 
 
382,525
  

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
39,032
  
 
 
21,367
  
  
 
4,257
  
  
 
(27,178
) 
 
 
37,478
  

 Net income (loss)
  
$
71,431
  
 
 
32,539
  
  
 
6,889
  
  
 
(47,530
) 
 
 
63,329
  








 Total assets at end of year
  
$
13,258,238
  
 
 
2,944,388
  
  
 
65,274
  
  
 
(2,287,744
) 
 
 
13,980,156
  








 2009 
  



 



  



  



 




 Net interest income (expense)
  
$
300,552
  
 
 
69,855
  
  
 
12,286
  
  
 
(70,817
) 
 
 
311,876
  

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
165,302
  
 
 
7,537
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(4,907
) 
 
 
167,932
  

 Noninterest income
  
 
92,578
  
 
 
162,075
  
  
 
38,281
  
  
 
24,713
  
 
 
317,647
  

 Noninterest expense
  
 
273,467
  
 
 
24,768
  
  
 
41,660
  
  
 
4,192
  
 
 
344,087
  

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
(19,780
) 
 
 
79,263
  
  
 
3,330
  
  
 
(18,378
) 
 
 
44,435
  

 Net income (loss)
  
$
(25,859
) 
 
 
120,362
  
  
 
5,577
  
  
 
(27,011
) 
 
 
73,069
  








 Total assets at end of year
  
$
12,019,936
  
 
 
2,185,225
  
  
 
62,458
  
  
 
(2,051,999
) 
 
 
12,215,620
  

  139 


(26) Condensed Parent Company Financial Statements 
Condensed parent company only financial statements of Wintrust follow: 
Balance Sheets  (In thousands)
  





$00000



$00000


 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 


  
  
  
 

 Assets
  



  




 Cash
  
$
94,275
  
  
 
127,803
  

 Available-for-sale securities, at fair value
  
 
489
  
  
 
7,419
  

 Investment in and receivable from subsidiaries
  
 
1,738,484
  
  
 
1,601,047
  

 Loans, net of unearned income
  
 
2,574
  
  
 
5,489
  

 Less: Allowance for loan losses
  
 
664
  
  
 
905
  


  
  
  
 

 Net Loans
  
 
1,910
  
  
 
4,584
  

 Goodwill
  
 
8,347
  
  
 
8,347
  

 Other assets
  
 
86,612
  
  
 
41,844
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
1,930,117
  
  
 
1,791,044
  


  
  
  
 





 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
  



  




 Other liabilities
  
$
20,671
  
  
 
10,671
  

 Notes payable
  
 
51,000
  
  
 
1,000
  

 Subordinated notes
  
 
35,000
  
  
 
50,000
  

 Other borrowings
  
 
30,420
  
  
 
43,331
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
  
 
249,493
  
  
 
249,493
  

 Shareholders’ equity
  
 
1,543,533
  
  
 
1,436,549
  


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
1,930,117
  
  
 
1,791,044
  

  
 
 Statements of Income  (In thousands)   





$00



$00



$00


 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Income
  



  



  




 Dividends and interest from subsidiaries
  
$
30,783
  
  
 
15,592
  
  
 
103,410
  

 Trading revenue
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,839
  
  
 
26,864
  

 Gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
164
  
  
 
57
  
  
 
(1,210)
  

 Other income
  
 
(487)
  
  
 
1,421
  
  
 
1,931
  

 Total income
  
 
30,460
  
  
 
21,909
  
  
 
130,995
  






 Expenses 
  



  



  




 Interest expense
  
 
21,342
  
  
 
18,667
  
  
 
19,139
  

 Salaries and employee benefits
  
 
12,435
  
  
 
8,975
  
  
 
7,238
  

 Other expenses
  
 
14,037
  
  
 
10,838
  
  
 
10,635
  

 Total expenses
  
 
47,814
  
  
 
38,480
  
  
 
37,012
  

 (Loss) income before income taxes and equity in undistributed loss of subsidiaries
  
 
(17,354)
  
  
 
(16,571)
  
  
 
93,983
  

 Income tax benefit
  
 
16,573
  
  
 
8,997
  
  
 
1,241
  

 (Loss) income before equity in undistributed net loss of subsidiaries
  
 
(781)
  
  
 
(7,574)
  
  
 
95,224
  

 Equity in undistributed net income (loss) of subsidiaries
  
 
78,356
  
  
 
70,903
  
  
 
(22,155)
  

 Net income 
  
$
77,575
  
  
 
63,329
  
  
 
73,069
  

  
 

  140 


Statements of Cash Flows  (In thousands)   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Operating Activities: 
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
77,575
  
 
 
63,329
  
 
 
73,069
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
  



 



 




 Provision for credit losses
  
 
608
  
 
 
905
  
 
 
—
  

 (Gains) losses on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
(164
) 
 
 
(57
) 
 
 
1,210
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
2,178
  
 
 
757
  
 
 
711
  

 Deferred income tax (benefit) expense
  
 
(1,785
) 
 
 
(9,747
) 
 
 
10,990
  

 Stock-based compensation expense
  
 
2,008
  
 
 
1,976
  
 
 
2,837
  

 Tax (expense) benefit from stock-based compensation arrangements
  
 
129
  
 
 
896
  
 
 
81
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation arrangements
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(432
) 
 
 
(377)
  

 Decrease (increase) in trading securities, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
27,332
  
 
 
(26,864)
  

 (Increase) decrease in other assets
  
 
(28,389
) 
 
 
(3,071
) 
 
 
3,523
  

 Increase (decrease) in other liabilities
  
 
122
  
 
 
(4,386
) 
 
 
(8,999)
  

 Equity in undistributed net (income) loss of subsidiaries
  
 
(78,356
) 
 
 
(70,903
) 
 
 
22,155
  

 Net Cash Provided by (Used for) Operating Activities 
  
 
(26,093
) 
 
 
6,599
  
 
 
78,336
  






 Investing Activities: 
  



 



 




 Capital contributions to subsidiaries
  
 
(22,361
) 
 
 
(194,524
) 
 
 
(203,775)
  

 Other investing activity, net
  
 
440
  
 
 
(808
) 
 
 
20,086
  

 Net Cash Used for Investing Activities 
  
 
(21,921
) 
 
 
(195,332
) 
 
 
(183,689)
  






 Financing Activities: 
  



 



 




 Increase (decrease) in notes payable and other borrowings, net
  
 
36,337
  
 
 
43,331
  
 
 
—
  

 Repayment of subordinated note
  
 
(15,000
) 
 
 
(10,000
) 
 
 
(10,000)
  

 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation arrangements
  
 
19
  
 
 
432
  
 
 
377
  

 Repayment of Series B preferred stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
(250,000
) 
 
 
—
  

 Net proceeds from issuance of prepaid common stock purchase contracts
  
 
—
  
 
 
179,316
  
 
 
—
  

 Issuance of common stock in a public offering
  
 
—
  
 
 
315,108
  
 
 
—
  

 Issuance of common shares resulting from exercise of stock options, employee stock purchase plan and conversion of
common stock warrants
  
 
3,586
  
 
 
3,956
  
 
 
4,912
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(10,344
) 
 
 
(22,776
) 
 
 
(21,783)
  

 Treasury stock purchases
  
 
(112
) 
 
 
(218
) 
 
 
(443)
  

 Net Cash Provided by (Used for) Financing Activities 
  
 
14,486
  
 
 
259,149
  
 
 
(26,937)
  

 Net (Decrease) Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  
 
(33,528
) 
 
 
70,416
  
 
 
(132,290)
  

 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 
  
 
127,803
  
 
 
57,387
  
 
 
189,677
  

 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year 
  
$
94,275
  
 
 
127,803
  
 
 
57,387
  

  
 

  141 


(27) Earnings Per Share 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for 2011, 2010 and 2009:
  


















(In thousands, except per share data)
 
  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Net income
 

  
$
77,575
  
  
$
63,329
  
  
$
73,069
  

 Less: Preferred stock dividends and discount accretion
 

  
 
4,128
  
  
 
19,643
  
  
 
19,556
  

 Less: Non-cash deemed preferred stock dividend
 

  
 
—
  
  
 
11,361
  
  
 
—
  

 Net income applicable to common shares—Basic 
 
    (A)
  
 
73,447
  
  
 
32,325
  
  
 
53,513
  

 Add: Dividends on convertible preferred stock
 

  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,000
  

 Net income applicable to common shares—Diluted 
 
    (B)
  
 
73,447
  
  
 
32,325
  
  
 
57,513
  

 Weighted average common shares outstanding 
 
    (C)
  
 
35,355
  
  
 
30,057
  
  
 
24,010
  

 Effect of dilutive potential common shares
 

  
 
8,636
  
  
 
1,513
  
  
 
2,335
  

 Weighted average common shares and effect of dilutive potential common shares 
 
    (D)
  
 
43,991
  
  
 
31,570
  
  
 
26,345
  

 Net income per common share:
 

  



  



  




 Basic 
 
(A/C)
  
$
2.08
  
  
$
1.08
  
  
$
2.23
  

 Diluted 
 
(B/D)
  
$
1.67
  
  
$
1.02
  
  
$
2.18
  

  
 
 Potentially dilutive common shares can result from stock options, restricted stock unit awards, stock
warrants, the Company’s convertible preferred stock, tangible equity unit shares and shares to be issued under the SPP and the DDFS Plan, being treated as if they had been either exercised or issued, computed by application of the treasury
stock method. While potentially dilutive common shares are typically included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, potentially dilutive common shares are excluded from this computation in periods in which the effect would reduce the
loss per share or increase the income per share. For diluted earnings per share, net income applicable to common shares can be affected by the conversion of the Company’s convertible preferred stock. Where the effect of this conversion would
reduce the loss per share or increase the income per share, net income applicable to common shares is adjusted by the associated preferred dividends. 
(28) Quarterly Financial Summary (Unaudited) 
The following is a summary of quarterly financial information for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
  





$00.00



$00.00



$00.00



$00.00



$00.00



$00.00



$00.00



$00.00


 
  
2011 Quarters
 
  
2010 Quarters
 

(In thousands, except per share data)  
  
First
 
  
Second
 
  
Third
 
  
Fourth
 
  
First
 
  
Second
 
  
Third
 
  
Fourth
 

 Interest income
  
$
147,780
  
  
 
145,445
  
  
 
154,951
  
  
 
157,617
  
  
 
142,496
  
  
 
149,248
  
  
 
147,401
  
  
 
153,962
  

 Interest expense
  
 
38,166
  
  
 
36,739
  
  
 
36,541
  
  
 
32,970
  
  
 
46,631
  
  
 
44,934
  
  
 
44,421
  
  
 
41,285
  

 Net interest income
  
 
109,614
  
  
 
108,706
  
  
 
118,410
  
  
 
124,647
  
  
 
95,865
  
  
 
104,314
  
  
 
102,980
  
  
 
112,677
  

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
25,344
  
  
 
29,187
  
  
 
29,290
  
  
 
18,817
  
  
 
29,044
  
  
 
41,297
  
  
 
25,528
  
  
 
28,795
  

 Net interest income after provision for credit losses
  
 
84,270
  
  
 
79,519
  
  
 
89,120
  
  
 
105,830
  
  
 
66,821
  
  
 
63,017
  
  
 
77,452
  
  
 
83,882
  

 Non-interest income, excluding net securities gains
  
 
40,781
  
  
 
35,500
  
  
 
67,022
  
  
 
44,603
  
  
 
42,215
  
  
 
50,390
  
  
 
45,421
  
  
 
44,302
  

 Net securities gains
  
 
106
  
  
 
1,152
  
  
 
225
  
  
 
309
  
  
 
392
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
9,235
  
  
 
159
  

 Non-interest expense
  
 
98,109
  
  
 
97,206
  
  
 
106,321
  
  
 
118,768
  
  
 
83,938
  
  
 
92,663
  
  
 
99,723
  
  
 
106,201
  

 Income before income taxes
  
 
27,048
  
  
 
18,965
  
  
 
50,046
  
  
 
31,974
  
  
 
25,490
  
  
 
20,790
  
  
 
32,385
  
  
 
22,142
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
10,646
  
  
 
7,215
  
  
 
19,844
  
  
 
12,753
  
  
 
9,473
  
  
 
7,781
  
  
 
12,287
  
  
 
7,937
  

 Net Income
  
$
16,402
  
  
 
11,750
  
  
 
30,202
  
  
 
19,221
  
  
 
16,017
  
  
 
13,009
  
  
 
20,098
  
  
 
14,205
  

 Preferred stock dividends and discount accretion
  
 
1,031
  
  
 
1,033
  
  
 
1,032
  
  
 
1,032
  
  
 
4,943
  
  
 
4,943
  
  
 
4,943
  
  
 
4,814
  

 Non-cash deemed preferred stock dividend
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
11,361
  

 Net income (loss) applicable to common shares
  
$
15,371
  
  
 
10,717
  
  
 
29,170
  
  
 
18,189
  
  
 
11,074
  
  
 
8,066
  
  
 
15,155
  
  
 
(1,970)
  

 Net income (loss) per common share:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Basic
  
$
0.44
  
  
 
0.31
  
  
 
0.82
  
  
 
0.51
  
  
 
0.43
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
0.49
  
  
 
(0.06)
  

 Diluted
  
$
0.36
  
  
 
0.25
  
  
 
0.65
  
  
 
0.41
  
  
 
0.41
  
  
 
0.25
  
  
 
0.47
  
  
 
(0.06)
  

 Cash dividends declared per common share
  
$
0.09
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
0.09
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
0.09
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
0.09
  
  
 
—
  

  142 


(29) Subsequent events 
On January 13, 2012, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary bank, Old Plank Trail Bank, entered into a
definitive agreement to acquire a branch of Suburban Bank & Trust Company (“Suburban”) that is located in Orland Park, Illinois. Through this transaction, subject to final adjustments, Old Plank Trail Bank will acquire
approximately $50 million of deposits, approximately $4 million of performing loans, the property, bank facility and various other assets. This transaction is subject to regulatory approval and certain closing conditions. 
Also on January 13, 2012, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, CTC, entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the trust
operations of Suburban. Through this transaction, subject to final adjustments, CTC will acquire trust accounts having assets under administration of approximately $160 million, in addition to land trust accounts and various other assets.
 On February 10, 2012, the Company announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary bank, Barrington Bank, acquired certain
assets and liabilities and the banking operations of Charter National Bank and Trust (“Charter National”) in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Charter National operated two locations: one in Hoffman Estates and one in Hanover Park and had
approximately $94 million in total assets and $89 million in total deposits as of December 31, 2011. Barrington Bank acquired substantially all of Charter National’s assets at a discount of approximately 4.1% and assumed all of the
non-brokered deposits at no premium. In connection with the acquisition, Barrington Bank entered into a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC whereby Barrington Bank will share in losses with the FDIC on certain loans and foreclosed real estate at
Charter National.  On February 14, 2012, the Company announced plans to expand its premium finance business into the
Canadian marketplace by entering into an agreement, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Lake Forest Bank, to purchase Macquarie Premium Funding Inc., the Canadian insurance premium funding unit of Macquarie Group. The business to be acquired
originates approximately $600 million of premium finance receivables on an annual basis and currently has approximately $230 million of premium finance receivables outstanding. The transaction is expected to be completed late in the first quarter or
early in the second quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approval and certain closing conditions. 
  143 


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  The Company made no changes in or had no disagreements with its independent accountants during the
two most recent fiscal years or any subsequent interim period.  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures  As of the end of the period covered by this report, management of the Company, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined under Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Based upon,
and as of the date of that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective, in ensuring the information relating to the Company (and its
consolidated subsidiaries) required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act was recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner. 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
  144 


Report on Management’s Assessment of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
Wintrust Financial Corporation is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of the consolidated financial
statements included in this annual report. The consolidated financial statements and notes included in this annual report have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include
some amounts that are based on management’s best estimates and judgments.  We, as management of Wintrust Financial
Corporation, are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting that is designed to produce reliable financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States. The system of internal control over financial reporting as it relates to the financial statements is evaluated for effectiveness by management and tested for reliability through a program of internal audits. Actions are taken to correct
potential deficiencies as they are identified. Any system of internal control, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility that a control can be circumvented or overridden and misstatements due to error or fraud
may occur and not be detected. Also, because of changes in conditions, internal control effectiveness may vary over time. Accordingly, even an effective system of internal control will provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial
statement preparation.  Management assessed the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, in relation to criteria for the effective internal control over financial reporting as described in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework,” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this assessment, management concludes that, as of December 31, 2011, its system of internal control over financial reporting is effective and meets the criteria of the “Internal Control -Integrated Framework.”
Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting. Their report expresses an unqualified
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.   






 /s/ Edward J. Wehmer
 
 /s/ David L. Stoehr

 Edward J. Wehmer
 
David L. Stoehr

 President and
 
Executive Vice President &

 Chief Executive Officer
 
Chief Financial Officer
 Lake Forest, Illinois  February 29, 2012 
  145 


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Wintrust Financial Corporation and subsidiaries 
We have audited Wintrust Financial Corporation and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Wintrust Financial Corporation and subsidiaries’ management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report on Management’s Assessment of Internal
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, Wintrust Financial Corporation and subsidiaries maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statements of condition of Wintrust Financial Corporation and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 and our report dated February 29,
2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  /s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
Chicago, Illinois  February 29, 2012

  146 


ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 
None.  
PART III  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The information required in response to this item will be contained in the Company’s Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held May 24, 2012 (the “Proxy Statement”) under the captions “Election of Directors,” “Executive Officers of the Company,” “Board of Directors’ Committees and Governance” and
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” and is incorporated herein by reference.  The Company has
adopted a Corporate Code of Ethics which complies with the rules of the SEC and the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The code applies to all of the Company’s directors, officers and employees and is included as Exhibit 14.1
and posted on the Company’s website (www.wintrust.com). The Company will post on its website any amendments to, or waivers from, its Corporate Code of Ethics as the code applies to its directors or executive officers. 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  The information required in response to this item will be contained in the Company’s Proxy Statement under the captions “Executive Compensation,” “Director Compensation” and
“Compensation Committee Report” and is incorporated herein by reference. The information included under the heading “Compensation Committee Report” in the Proxy Statement shall not be deemed “soliciting” materials or to
be “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT 
Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference to the section
“Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners, Directors and Management” that will be included in the Company’s Proxy Statement.  The following table summarizes information as of December 31, 2011, relating to the Company’s equity compensation plans pursuant to which common stock is authorized for issuance: 
 










EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION
  
  
  
  

Plan Category
  
Number ofsecurities to be issuedupon exercise ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights(a)
  
Weighted-averageexercise price ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights(b)
  
 Number of securitiesremaining available
for future issuance
under equity
compensation plans(excluding securitiesreflected in column (a))(c)

  

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
  

  

  


 WTFC 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended
  
1,564,622
  
$39.56
  
          —

 WTFC 2007 Stock Incentive Plan
  
    828,345
  
$19.67
  
2,253,036

 WTFC Employee Stock Purchase Plan
  
            —
  
      —
  
    87,353

 WTFC Directors Deferred Fee and Stock Plan
  
            —
  
      —
  
  370,572

  


  
2,392,967
  
$32.67
  
2,710,961

  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders (1)
  

  

  


 N/A
  
          —
  
      —
  
          —

  

 Total
  
2,392,967
  
$32.67
  
2,710,961

  
  


(1)
 Excludes 80,434 shares of the Company’s common stock issuable pursuant to the exercise of options previously granted under the plans of
Advantage National Bancorp, Inc., Northview Financial Corporation, Town Bankshares, Ltd. and First Northwest Bancorp, Inc. The weighted average exercise price of those options is $24.48. No additional awards will be made under these plans.

  147 


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE  The information required in response to this item will be contained in the Company’s Proxy Statement
under the sub-caption “Related Party Transactions” and is incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
The information required in response to this item will be contained in the Company’s Proxy Statement under the caption “Audit
and Non-Audit Fees Paid” and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  148 


PART IV  ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  (a) Documents filed as part of this Report.   


 
1., 2. 
 Financial Statements and Schedules  The following financial statements of Wintrust Financial Corporation, incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: 
 


 
•
 
     Consolidated Statements of Condition as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 
 


 
•
 
     Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 


 
•
 
     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  


 
•
 
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  


 
•
 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 


 
•
 
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
Financial statement schedules have been omitted as they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or notes thereto.   









 
3.
 
Exhibits (Exhibits marked with a “*” denote management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements)






 
3.1
 
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Wintrust Financial Corporation, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 29, 2011).






 
3.2
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Designations of Wintrust Financial Corporation filed on December 18, 2008 with the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois designating the
preferences, limitations, voting powers and relative rights of the Series A Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 24,
2008).






 
3.3
 
Amended and Restated By-laws of Wintrust Financial Corporation, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on April 15, 2011).






 
4.1
 
Certain instruments defining the rights of the holders of long-term debt of the Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, none of which authorize a total amount of indebtedness
in excess of 10% of the total assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, have not been filed as Exhibits. The Corporation hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any of these agreements to the Commission upon
request.






 
4.2
 
Warrant Agreement, dated as of February 8, 2011, between Wintrust Financial Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. as Warrant Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
Company’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 9, 2011).






 
4.3
 
Form of Warrant (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
February 9, 2011).






 
4.4
 
Junior Subordinated Indenture dated December 10, 2010 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).






 
4.5
 
First Supplemental Indenture dated December 10, 2010 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).






 
4.6
 
Purchase Contract Agreement dated December 10, 2010 among the Company, U.S. Bank National Association, as purchase contract agent, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10, 2010).






 
4.7
 
Form of Amortizing Note (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10,
2010).






 
4.8
 
Form of Purchase Contract (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December
10, 2010).

  149 


 









 
4.9
 
Form of Equity Unit (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 10,
2010).






 
10.1
 
Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of August 2, 2005, between Wintrust Financial Corporation and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 4, 2005).






 
10.2
 
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of August 2, 2005, among Wintrust Financial Corporation, as depositor, Wilmington Trust Company, as property trustee and Delaware
trustee, and the Administrative Trustees listed therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 4, 2005).






 
10.3
 
Guarantee Agreement, dated as of August 2, 2005, between Wintrust Financial Corporation, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.3 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 4, 2005).






 
10.4
 
$25 million Subordinated Note between Wintrust Financial Corporation and LaSalle Bank National Association, dated October 29, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2002).






 
10.5
 
Amendment and Allonge made as of June 7, 2005 to that certain $25 million Subordinated Note dated October 29, 2002 executed by Wintrust Financial Corporation in favor of LaSalle
Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 5, 2005).






 
10.6
 
$25 million Subordinated Note between Wintrust Financial Corporation and LaSalle Bank National Association, dated April 30, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30, 2003).






 
10.7
 
Amendment and Allonge made as of June 7, 2005 to that certain $25 million Subordinated Note dated April 30, 2003 executed by Wintrust Financial Corporation in favor of LaSalle Bank
National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 5, 2005).






 
10.8
 
$25.0 million Subordinated Note between Wintrust Financial Corporation and LaSalle Bank, National Association, dated October 25, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 28, 2005).






 
10.9
 
Second Amended and Restated Pledge and Security Agreement, dated as of November 5, 2009 by Wintrust Financial Corporation for the benefit of Bank of America, N.A. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.9 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010).






 
10.10
 
Indenture dated as of September 1, 2006, between Wintrust Financial Corporation and LaSalle Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 6, 2006).






 
10.11
 
Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, dated as of September 1, 2006, among Wintrust Financial Corporation, as depositor, LaSalle Bank National Association, as institutional
trustee, Christiana Bank & Trust Company, as Delaware trustee, and the Administrators listed therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
September 6, 2006).






 
10.12
 
Guarantee Agreement, dated as of September 1, 2006, between Wintrust Financial Corporation, as Guarantor, and LaSalle Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8- K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 6, 2006).






 
10.13
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement entered into between the Company and Edward J. Wehmer, President and Chief Executive Officer, dated December 19, 2008 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 24, 2008).*






 
10.14
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement entered into between the Company and David A. Dykstra, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, dated December 19, 2008
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 24, 2008).*






 
10.15
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement entered into between the Company and Richard B. Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, dated December 19, 2008
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 24, 2008).*

  150 


 









 
10.16
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement entered into between the Company and David L. Stoehr, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, dated December 19, 2008
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 24, 2008).*






 
10.17
 
Employment Agreement entered into between the Company and Leona A. Gleason, dated January 4, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010).*






 
10.18
 
Employment Agreement entered into between the Company and Lisa Reategui, dated August 30, 2011.*






 
10.19
 
Wintrust Financial Corporation 1997 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Proxy Statement relating to the May 22, 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
of the Company).*






 
10.20
 
First Amendment to Wintrust Financial Corporation 1997 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2000).*






 
10.21
 
Second Amendment to Wintrust Financial Corporation 1997 Stock Incentive Plan adopted by the Board of Directors on January 24, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 of the
Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 1, 2004.).*






 
10.22
 
Third Amendment to Wintrust Financial Corporation 1997 Stock Incentive Plan adopted by the Board of Directors on May 27, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 of the
Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 1, 2004.).*






 
10.23
 
Wintrust Financial Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on January 16, 2007).*






 
10.24
 
Wintrust Financial Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Appendix B of the Proxy Statement relating to the May 28, 2009 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders of the Company).*






 
10.25
 
Wintrust Financial Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Proxy Statement relating to the May 26, 2011 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders of the Company).*






 
10.26
 
Wintrust Financial Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8, filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 8, 2011).*






 
10.27
 
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31,
2004).*






 
10.28
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2004).*






 
10.29
 
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement under the Company’s 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 of the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2006).*






 
10.30
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award under the Company’s 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ending December 31, 2006).*






 
10.31
 
Wintrust Financial Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Proxy Statement relating to the May 28, 2009 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders of the Company).*






 
10.32
 
Wintrust Financial Corporation Directors Deferred Fee and Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix B of the Proxy Statement relating to the May 24, 2001 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders of the Company).*






 
10.33
 
Wintrust Financial Corporation 2005 Directors Deferred Fee and Stock Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A of the Proxy Statement relating to the May 28, 2008
Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company).*






 
10.34
 
First Amendment to the Wintrust Financial Corporation 2005 Directors Deferred Fee and Stock Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 15, 2011).*






 
10.35
 
Wintrust Financial Corporation 2005 Directors Deferred Fee and Stock Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 of the Company’s Current Report on Form S-8,
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 8, 2011).*






 
10.36
 
Form of Cash Incentive and Retention Award Agreement under Wintrust Financial Corporation’s 2008 Long-Term Cash and Incentive Retention Plan with Minimum Payout (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008).*






 
10.37
 
Form of Cash Incentive and Retention Award Agreement under Wintrust Financial Corporation’s 2008 Long-Term Cash and Incentive Retention Plan with no Minimum Payout
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008).*

  151 


 









 
10.38
 
Form of Senior Executive Officer Capital Purchase Program Waiver, executed by each of Messrs. David A. Dykstra, Richard B. Murphy, David L. Stoehr and Edward J. Wehmer (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 24, 2008).*






 
10.39
 
Form of Senior Executive Officer Capital Purchase Program Letter Agreement, executed by each of Messrs. David A. Dykstra, Richard B. Murphy, David L. Stoehr, and Edward J. Wehmer
with Wintrust Financial Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 24, 2008).*






 
10.40
 
Investment Agreement dated as of August 26, 2008 between Wintrust Financial Corporation and CIVC-WTFC LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 2, 2008).






 
10.41
 
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 28, 2009, between American International Group, Inc. and First Insurance Funding Corp. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 28, 2009).






 
10.42
 
Form of Director Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2009).






 
10.43
 
Form of Officer Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2009).






 
10.44
 
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2009 among Wintrust Financial Corporation, the lenders named therein, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative
agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 5, 2009).






 
10.45
 
First Amendment Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2009, to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, among Wintrust Financial Corporation, the lenders named therein, and Bank of
America, N.A., as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 16, 2009).






 
10.46
 
Second Amendment Agreement, dated as of October 29, 2010, to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, among Wintrust Financial Corporation, the lenders named therein, and Bank of
America, N.A., as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010).






 
10.47
 
Third Amendment Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2010, to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, among Wintrust Financial Corporation, the lenders named therein, and Bank of
America, N.A., as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).






 
10.48
 
Fourth Amendment Agreement, dated as of October 28, 2011, to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, among Wintrust Financial Corporation, the lenders named therein, and Bank of
America, N.A., as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 2, 2011).






 
12.1
 
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.






 
12.2
 
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends






 
13.1
 
2011 Annual Report to Shareholders






 
14.1
 
Corportate Code of Ethics






 
21.1
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.






 
23.1
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.






 
31.1
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.






 
31.2
 
Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.






 
32.1
 
Certification Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

  152 


 






101.INS
 
XBRL Instance Document (1)




101.SCH
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document




101.CAL
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document




101.LAB
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document




101.PRE
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document




101.DEF
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
  


(1)
 Includes the following financial information included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011,
formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Statements of Condition, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity,
(iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  153 


PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
  154 


SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   











 

 
WINTRUST FINANCIAL CORPORATION (Registrant)






February 29, 2012
 

 
By:  
 
/s/ EDWARD J. WEHMER


 

 

 
Edward J. Wehmer, President and


 

 

 
Chief Executive Officer
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 /s/ PETER D. CRIST Peter D. Crist
  
 Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ EDWARD J. WEHMER
Edward J. Wehmer
  
 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
(Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ DAVID L. STOEHR
David L. Stoehr
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ BRUCE K. CROWTHER
Bruce K. Crowther
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ JOSEPH F. DAMICO
Joseph F. Damico
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ BERT A. GETZ, JR.
Bert A. Getz, Jr.
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ H. PATRICK HACKETT, JR.
H. Patrick Hackett, Jr.
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ SCOTT K. HEITMANN
Scott K. Heitmann
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ CHARLES H. JAMES III
Charles H. James III
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ ALBIN F. MOSCHNER
Albin F. Moschner
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ THOMAS J. NEIS Thomas J. Neis
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ CHRISTOPHER J. PERRY
Christopher J. Perry
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ HOLLIS W. RADEMACHER
Hollis W. Rademacher
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012





 /s/ INGRID S. STAFFORD
Ingrid S. Stafford
  
 Director
 
February 29, 2012

  155 


PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
  156 



