
10-K
1
d284845d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D. C. 20549 
   
FORM 10-K  (Mark One)
  


 
þ
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
   For the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 
OR   


 
¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
   For the transition period from
                     to                     
 Commission file number 1-12107  ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO.  (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)   






Delaware
 
31-1469076

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




6301 Fitch Path, New Albany, Ohio
 
43054

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (614) 283-6500  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

 Class A Common Stock, $.01 Par Value
 
New York Stock Exchange




 Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred
Stock Purchase Rights
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    þ  Yes    ¨  No 
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    ¨  Yes    þ  No 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    þ  Yes    ¨  No 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files).)     þ  Yes    ¨  No  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act: 
 










Large accelerated filer  þ
 
 Accelerated filer  ¨
 
Non-accelerated filer  ¨
 
Smaller reporting company  ¨


 
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    ¨  Yes    þ  No 
Aggregate market value of the Registrant’s Class A Common Stock (the only outstanding common equity of the Registrant) held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant (for this purpose, executive officers and directors of the Registrant are considered affiliates) as of July 29, 2011: $6,358,940,247.  Number of shares outstanding of the Registrant’s common stock as of March 16, 2012: 84,723,859 shares of Class A Common Stock. 
DOCUMENT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:  Portions of the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be held on June 14, 2012, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.     
 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  PART I    








 ITEM 1.
  
BUSINESS
  
1

 ITEM 1A.
  
RISK FACTORS
  
7

 ITEM 1B.
  
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
  
25

 ITEM 2.
  
PROPERTIES
  
26

 ITEM 3.
  
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
  
27

 ITEM 4.
  
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
  
29

 SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM.
  
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
  
30




PART II 
  


 ITEM 5.
  
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  
31

 ITEM 6.
  
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
  
34

 ITEM 7.
  
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  
36


  
FINANCIAL SUMMARY 
  
39


  
CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK 
  
39

 ITEM 7A.
  
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
  
58

 ITEM 8.
  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  
60


  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
  
60


  
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  
61


  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’EQUITY
  
62


  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  
63


  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  
64

 ITEM 9.
  
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
  
102

 ITEM 9A.
  
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
  
103

 ITEM 9B.
  
OTHER INFORMATION
  
105




PART III 
  


 ITEM 10.
  
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
  
106

 ITEM 11.
  
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
  
107

 ITEM 12.
  
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
  
108

 ITEM 13.
  
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
  
109

 ITEM 14.
  
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
  
110


Table of Contents








PART IV 
  


 ITEM 15.
  
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  
111

 EX-12.1
  

  


 EX-21.1
  

  


 EX-23.1
  

  


 EX-24.1
  

  


 EX-31.1
  

  


 EX-31.2
  

  


 EX-32.1
  

  


 EX-101
  
INSTANCE DOCUMENT
  


 EX-101
  
SCHEMA DOCUMENT
  


 EX-101
  
CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT
  


 EX-101
  
LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT
  


 EX-101
  
PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT
  


 EX-101
  
DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT
  




Table of Contents
PART I 
 


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS.  GENERAL.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co.
(“A&F”), a company incorporated in Delaware in 1996, through its subsidiaries (collectively, A&F and its subsidiaries, are referred to as “Abercrombie & Fitch” or the “Company”), is a specialty retailer
that operates stores and direct-to-consumer operations. Through these channels, the Company sells a broad array of products, including: casual sportswear apparel, including knit and woven shirts, graphic t-shirts, fleece, jeans and woven pants,
shorts, sweaters, and outerwear; personal care products; and accessories for men, women and kids under the Abercrombie & Fitch, abercrombie kids, and Hollister brands. The Company also operates stores and direct-to-consumer operations
offering bras, underwear, personal care products, sleepwear and at-home products for girls under the Gilly Hicks brand. As of January 28, 2012, the Company operated 946 stores in the United States (“U.S.”) and 99 stores outside
of the U.S.  The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31, typically resulting in a fifty-two
week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a fifty-three week year. Fiscal years are designated in the consolidated financial statements and notes by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. All
references herein to “Fiscal 2011” represent the 52-week fiscal year ended January 28, 2012; to “Fiscal 2010” represent the 52-week fiscal year ended January 29, 2011; and to “Fiscal 2009” represent the
52-week fiscal year ended January 30, 2010. In addition, all references herein to “Fiscal 2012” represent the 53-week fiscal year that will end on February 2, 2013. 
A&F makes available free of charge on its Internet website, www.abercrombie.com, under “Investors, SEC Filings,” its annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange
Act”), as well as A&F’s definitive proxy materials filed pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after A&F electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The SEC maintains a website that contains electronic filings by A&F and other issuers at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials A&F files with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 
The Company has included its Internet website addresses throughout this filing as textual references only. The information contained
within these Internet websites is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  DESCRIPTION OF
OPERATIONS.  Brands.  Abercrombie & Fitch.    Rooted in East Coast traditions and Ivy League heritage, Abercrombie & Fitch is the essence of privilege and casual luxury. The
Adirondacks supply a clean inspiration to this preppy, youthful All-American lifestyle. A combination of classic and sexy creates a charged atmosphere that is confident and just a bit provocative. Idolized and respected, Abercrombie & Fitch
is timeless and always cool. 
  1 


Table of Contents
abercrombie kids.    The essence of privilege and prestigious
East Coast prep schools, abercrombie kids directly follows in the footsteps of Abercrombie & Fitch. With an energetic attitude, abercrombie kids are popular, wholesome and athletic. Casual, with classic, preppy style, abercrombie kids
aspire to be like their older sibling, Abercrombie & Fitch. The perfect combination of maturity and mischief, abercrombie kids are the signature of All-American cool.  Hollister.    Hollister is the fantasy of Southern California. It’s all about hot lifeguards and beautiful beaches. Young and fun, with a sense of humor, Hollister never
takes itself too seriously. Hollister’s laidback lifestyle and All-American image is timeless and effortlessly cool. Hollister brings Southern California to the world.  Gilly Hicks.    Gilly Hicks is the cheeky cousin of Abercrombie & Fitch. Inspired by the free spirit of Sydney, Australia, Gilly Hicks makes the hottest Push ‘Em
Up bras and the cutest Down Undies for young, naturally beautiful, confident girls. Carefree and undeniably pretty, Gilly Hicks is the All-American brand with a Sydney sensibility. 
Though each of the Company’s brands embodies its own heritage and handwriting, the brands share common elements and characteristics.
The brands are classic, casual, confident, intelligent, privileged and possess a sense of humor.  Refer to the “FINANCIAL
SUMMARY” in “ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding net sales and other financial and operational data by
segment and by brand.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS. 
The Company determines its segments on the same basis that it uses to evaluate performance. In connection with international expansion,
the way the Company allocates resources and assesses performance has changed. All of the Company’s segments sell a similar group of products — casual sportswear apparel, personal care products and accessories for men, women and kids and
bras, underwear and sleepwear for women. The Company has three reportable segments, U.S. Stores, International Stores and Direct-to-Consumer. Refer to Note 2, “Segment Reporting,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in “ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the Company’s reportable segments.  IN-STORE EXPERIENCE AND STORE OPERATIONS. 
The Company views the customer’s in-store experience as the primary means for communicating the spirit of each brand. The Company
emphasizes the senses of sight, sound, smell, touch and energy by utilizing the visual presentation of merchandise, in-store marketing, music, fragrances, rich fabrics and its sales associates to reinforce the aspirational lifestyles represented by
the brands.  The Company’s in-store marketing is designed to convey the principal elements and personality of each brand.
The store design, furniture, fixtures and music are all carefully planned and coordinated to create a shopping experience that reflects the Abercrombie & Fitch, abercrombie kids, Hollister or Gilly Hicks lifestyle. 
The Company’s sales associates and managers are a central element in creating the atmosphere of the stores. In addition to serving
customers, sales associates and managers reflect the casual, energetic and aspirational attitude of the brands. 
  2 


Table of Contents
Merchandise is similarly displayed, regardless of location, to ensure a consistent in-store
experience. Store managers receive detailed plans designating fixture and merchandise placement to ensure coordinated execution of the Company-wide merchandising strategy. In addition, standardization of each brand’s store design and
merchandise presentation enables the Company to open new stores efficiently.  At the end of Fiscal 2011, the Company operated
1,045 stores. The following table details the number of retail stores operated by the Company at January 28, 2012:   
























 Fiscal 2011
  
Abercrombie &Fitch
 
  
abercrombiekids
 
  
Hollister
 
  
Gilly Hicks
 
  
Total
 

 U.S.
  
 
280
 
  
 
154
 
  
 
494
 
  
 
18
 
  
 
946
 

 International
  
 
14
 
  
 
5
 
  
 
77
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
99
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
294
 
  
 
159
 
  
 
571
 
  
 
21
 
  
 
1,045
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 DIRECT-TO-CONSUMER BUSINESS. 
The Company operates websites for each brand, both domestically and internationally. The websites reinforce each particular brand’s
lifestyle, and are designed to complement the in-store experience. Aggregate total net sales through direct-to-consumer operations, including shipping and handling revenue, were $552.6 million for Fiscal 2011, representing 13.3% of total net sales.
The Company believes its direct-to-consumer operations have broadened its market and brand recognition worldwide.  MARKETING
AND ADVERTISING.  The Company considers the in-store experience to be its primary marketing
vehicle. The Company’s marketing strategy emphasizes the senses to reinforce the aspirational lifestyle represented by each brand. The Company’s flagship stores represent the pinnacle of the Company’s in-store branding efforts. The
Company also engages its customers through the internet, social media and mobile commerce in ways that reinforce the aspirational lifestyle of the brands. Flagship stores and social media both attract a substantial number of international consumers
and have significantly contributed to the worldwide status of the Company’s iconic brands.  MERCHANDISE
SUPPLIERS.  During Fiscal 2011, the Company sourced merchandise through approximately 170 vendors located
throughout the world; primarily in Asia and Central and South America. The Company did not source more than 10% of its merchandise from any single factory or supplier during Fiscal 2011. The Company pursues a global sourcing strategy that includes
relationships with vendors in 16 countries as well as the United States. The Company’s foreign sourcing of merchandise is negotiated and settled in U.S. dollars.  All product sources, including independent manufacturers and suppliers, must achieve and maintain the Company’s high quality standards, which are an integral part of the Company’s identity. The
Company has established supplier product quality standards to ensure the high quality of fabrics and other materials used in the Company’s products. The Company utilizes both home office and field employees to help monitor compliance with the
Company’s product quality standards.  Before the Company begins production with any factory, the factory must first go
through a rigorous quality assurance inspection to ensure it meets Company standards. This includes factories that are subcontractors to the factories and vendors with whom the Company works. All business partners are

  3 


Table of Contents

contractually required to adhere to our vendor Code of Conduct, and all new factories go through an initial social audit, which includes a factory walk-through to appraise the physical working
conditions and health and safety practices. Social audits on the factories are also performed once a year after the initial audit. The Company strives to partner with suppliers who respect local laws and share our dedication to utilize best
practices in human rights, labor rights and workplace safety.  DISTRIBUTION AND MERCHANDISE
INVENTORY.  The Company’s merchandise is shipped to the Company’s distribution centers
(“DCs”) where it is received and inspected before being shipped to stores or direct-to-consumer customers. The Company uses its two DCs in New Albany, Ohio to support its North American stores, and North American and Asian
direct-to-consumer customers. The Company is in the process of consolidating the operations of its two DCs in New Albany, Ohio into one, with an expected completion date by the end of Fiscal 2012. The Company uses a third-party DC in the Netherlands
for the distribution of merchandise to stores and direct-to-consumer customers located in Europe, and a third-party DC in Hong Kong for the distribution of merchandise to stores located in Asia. The Company utilizes primarily one contract carrier to
ship merchandise and related materials to its North American stores and direct-to-consumer customers, and a separate contract carrier for its European and Asian stores and direct-to-consumer customers. 
The Company strives to maintain sufficient quantities of inventory in its retail stores and DCs to offer customers a full selection of
current merchandise. The Company attempts to balance in-stock levels and inventory turnover, and to take markdowns when required to keep merchandise fresh and current with fashion trends.  INFORMATION SYSTEMS.  The Company’s
management information systems consist of a full range of retail, merchandising and financial systems. The systems include applications related to point-of-sale, direct-to-consumer, inventory management, supply chain, planning, sourcing,
merchandising and financial reporting. The Company continues to invest in technology to upgrade core systems to make the Company scalable, efficient, and more accurate, including support of its international expansion. 
SEASONAL BUSINESS.  The retail apparel market has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters (“Spring”); and the Fall season which includes the third and
fourth fiscal quarters (“Fall”). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to the Back-to-School (August) and Holiday (November and December) selling periods,
particularly in the U.S.  TRADEMARKS. 
The Abercrombie & Fitch®, abercrombie®, Hollister®, Gilly Hicks®, “Moose” and “Seagull” trademarks are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries of countries where stores are
located or likely to be located in the future. In addition, these trademarks are either registered, or the Company has applications for registration pending, with the registries of many of the foreign countries in which the manufacturers of the
Company’s products are located. The Company has also registered, or has applied to register, certain other trademarks in the U.S. and around the world. The Company believes its products are identified by its trademarks and, therefore, its
trademarks are of significant value. Each 
  4 


Table of Contents

registered trademark has a duration of ten to 20 years, depending on the date it was registered, and the country in which it is registered, and is subject to an indefinite number of renewals for
a like period upon continued use and appropriate application. The Company intends to continue using its core trademarks and to renew each of its registered trademarks that remain in use.  OTHER INFORMATION.  Additional information
about the Company’s business, including its revenues and profits for the last three fiscal years and gross square footage of stores, is set forth under “ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  COMPETITION. 
The sale of apparel, accessories and personal care products through stores and direct-to-consumer channels is a highly competitive
business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional and national department stores. As the Company continues expanding internationally, it also faces competition in local markets from
established chains, as well as local specialty stores. Brand recognition, fashion, price, service, store location, selection and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store and direct-to-consumer sales. 
The competitive challenges facing the Company include anticipating and quickly responding to changing fashion trends; and maintaining the
aspirational positioning of its brands. Furthermore, the Company faces additional competitive challenges as many retailers continue promotional activities regardless of economic conditions, particularly in the U.S. In response to these conditions,
the Company has engaged in promotional activity in the U.S. while continuing to focus on preserving the value of its brands. 
ASSOCIATE RELATIONS.  As of March 16, 2012, the Company employed approximately 90,000 associates. Approximately 80,000 of the Company’s associates were part-time associates. 
On average, the Company employed approximately 27,000 full-time equivalents during Fiscal 2011 which included approximately 17,000
full-time equivalents comprised of part-time associates, including temporary associates hired during peak periods, such as the Back-to-School and Holiday seasons.  The Company believes it maintains a good relationship with its associates. However, in the normal course of business, the Company is party to lawsuits involving former and current associates. Please see
the discussion in “ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS.  Compliance with domestic and international regulations related to environmental matters has not
had, nor is it expected to have, any material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or the Company’s competitive position based on information and circumstances known to us at this time. 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.  On June 16, 2009, A&F’s Board of Directors approved the closure of the Company’s 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of
the RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. 
  5 


Table of Contents

Accordingly, the results of operations of RUEHL are reflected in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income
included in “ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for all periods presented. Results from discontinued operations were immaterial for the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011.

  6 


Table of Contents


ITEM 1A.    RISK
FACTORS 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS. 
We caution that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or made by us, our management or our spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which may be beyond our control. Words such as “estimate,”
“project,” “plan,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Except as may be required by applicable law, we assume no
obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.  The following factors could affect our financial
performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements:   


 
•
 
 changes in economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity;   


 
•
 
 if we are unable to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner, and manage our inventory
commensurate with customer demand, our sales levels and profitability may decline;   


 
•
 
 fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs;
  


 
•
 
 equity-based compensation awarded under the employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer could adversely impact our cash flows, financial
position or results of operations and could have a dilutive effect on our outstanding Common Stock;   


 
•
 
 our growth strategy relies significantly on international expansion, which adds complexity to our operations and may strain our resources and adversely
impact current store performance;   


 
•
 
 our international expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into new markets or
could adversely affect the profitability of our international operations;   


 
•
 
 our direct-to-consumer sales are subject to numerous risks that could adversely impact sales; 
 


 
•
 
 we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs related to store closures; 
 


 
•
 
 our development of a new brand concept such as Gilly Hicks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations;
  


 
•
 
 fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations; 
 


 
•
 
 our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; 
 


 
•
 
 comparable store sales may continue to fluctuate on a regular basis and impact the volatility of the price of our Common Stock;
  


 
•
 
 our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with
ours; 
  7 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 our stock price may be volatile and investors may not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price paid to acquire the shares;
  


 
•
 
 our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls in which most of our stores are located;
  


 
•
 
 our net sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis, causing our results of operations to be susceptible to changes in Back-to-School and Holiday shopping
patterns;   


 
•
 
 our inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results;
  


 
•
 
 our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands; 
 


 
•
 
 we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business;
  


 
•
 
 interruption in the flow of merchandise from our key vendors and international manufacturers could disrupt our supply chain, which could result in lost
sales and could increase our costs;   


 
•
 
 we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and, therefore, depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all our merchandise;
  


 
•
 
 our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and two third-party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or
adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers;   


 
•
 
 our reliance on third parties to deliver merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores and direct-to-consumer customers could result in
disruptions to our business;   


 
•
 
 we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of
revenues;   


 
•
 
 modifications and/or upgrades to our information technology systems may disrupt our operations; 
 


 
•
 
 our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters,
pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results;   


 
•
 
 our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; 
 


 
•
 
 our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new
markets;   


 
•
 
 fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results; 
 


 
•
 
 the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition;
  


 
•
 
 our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self-insured exposures might increase our
expenses and adversely impact our financial results;   


 
•
 
 operating results and cash flows at the store level may cause us to incur impairment charges; 
  8 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 we are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to
modify our current business practices, incur increased costs or harm our reputation if we do not comply;   


 
•
 
 changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations; 
 


 
•
 
 our unsecured Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”) and our Term Loan Agreement include
financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations;   


 
•
 
 our operations may be affected by regulatory changes related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions; and 
 


 
•
 
 compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business,
results of operations and reported financial results.  The following sets forth a description of the
preceding risk factors that we believe may be relevant to an understanding of our business. These risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of our forward-looking statements. 
Changes in economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity.  Our business depends on consumer
demand for our merchandise. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. Our performance is subject to factors
that affect worldwide economic conditions including unemployment, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on declines in the financial, residential real estate and mortgage markets, sales tax rates and rate
increases, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence in future economic and political conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, the value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies and other
macroeconomic factors.  During Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2009, the combination of these factors caused consumer spending in the
U.S. to deteriorate significantly. While consumer spending began to improve in Fiscal 2010 and continued to improve in Fiscal 2011, these factors may cause levels of spending to remain depressed relative to historical levels for the foreseeable
future. In addition, these factors may cause consumers to purchase products from lower-priced competitors or to defer purchases of apparel and personal care products altogether. 
In addition, we have significantly expanded our presence in the European market. The ongoing Euro financial crisis may impact consumer
demand for our merchandise. The economic conditions and factors described above could adversely affect the productivity of our stores, as well as adversely affect the pace of opening new international stores, or their productivity once opened.
 Economic uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and capital resources if
reduced consumer demand for our merchandise should occur. It could also impact our ability to fund growth and/or result in our becoming reliant on external financing, the availability of which may be uncertain. 
  9 


Table of Contents
In addition, the economic environment may exacerbate some of the risks noted below,
including consumer demand, strain on available resources, international growth strategy, store growth, interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and manufacturers, and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The risks could be
exacerbated individually, or collectively.  If we are unable to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion
trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner, and manage our inventory commensurate with customer demand, our sales levels and profitability may decline.  Our success largely depends on our ability to anticipate and gauge the fashion preferences of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies constantly shifting demands in a timely manner. Our
merchandise must appeal to our consumers, whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are also subject to rapid change. We must translate market trends into appropriate, saleable merchandise far in advance of its sale in our stores or
through our websites. Because we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and demand, pricing shifts, and the
sub-optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will continue to anticipate consumer demands successfully in the future. To the extent we fail to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to
changing consumer preferences and fashion trends, our sales will be adversely affected. Inventory levels for certain merchandise styles no longer considered to be “on trend” may increase, leading to higher markdowns to sell through excess
inventory or increases in inventory valuation reserves. A distressed economic and retail environment, in which many of our competitors continue to engage in aggressive promotional activities, particularly in the U.S., increases the importance of
reacting appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our merchandise, or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory
shortages, which may negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost sales. Any of these events could significantly harm our operating results and financial condition. 
Fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays
and increase our costs.  Fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials
used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods, or our ability to meet customer demand. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them,
particularly cotton. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. Such factors may be exacerbated by legislation and regulations associated with
global climate change.  In addition, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing
significantly, and as the middle class in developing countries continues to grow, it is unlikely such cost pressure will abate. The cost of transportation has been increasing as well and, if the price of oil continues to increase, and there
continues to be significant unrest in the Middle East, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate.  We may not be able
to pass all or a portion of higher raw materials prices or labor or transportation costs on to our customers, which could adversely affect our gross margin and results of our operations. 
  10 


Table of Contents
Equity-based compensation awarded under the employment agreement with our Chief
Executive Officer could adversely impact our cash flows, financial position or results of operations and could have a dilutive effect on our outstanding Common Stock. 
Under the Employment Agreement entered into as of December 19, 2008, between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, our Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer (the “Employment Agreement”), Mr. Jeffries received grants (the “Retention Grants”) of stock appreciation rights. In addition to the Retention Grants, Mr. Jeffries is eligible to receive two
equity-based grants during each fiscal year of the term of the Employment Agreement starting with Fiscal 2009 (each, a “Semi-Annual Grant”). The value of a Semi-Annual Grant is uncertain and dependent on the future market price of our
Common Stock and our financial performance. To date, Mr. Jeffries has received Semi-Annual Grants, in the aggregate, of 3,752,259 stock appreciation rights.  In connection with the Semi-Annual Grants contemplated by the Employment Agreement, the related compensation expense could significantly impact our results of operations. In addition, the significant
number of shares of Common Stock which could be issued to settle the Retention Grants and the Semi-Annual Grants is uncertain and dependent on the future market price of our Common Stock and our financial performance and would, if issued, have a
dilutive effect with respect to our outstanding shares of Common Stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.  In the event that there are not sufficient shares of Common Stock available to be issued under our Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2007 LTIP”), or under a successor or
replacement plan at the time these equity-based awards are ultimately settled, we will be required to settle some portion of the awards in cash, which could have an adverse impact on our cash flow from operations, financial position or results of
operations. Furthermore, the awards may not be deductible pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). In addition, under applicable accounting rules, if our stock price increases to a point where, as of any measurement date, we would be
unable to settle outstanding equity-based awards in shares of Common Stock from our existing plans, we will be required to classify and account for all or a portion of the equity-based awards as liabilities. This could further adversely impact our
results of operations.  Our growth strategy relies significantly on international expansion, which adds complexity to
our operations and may strain our resources and adversely impact current store performance.  Our growth strategy
largely depends on the opening of new international stores. This international expansion has placed, and will continue to place, increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources at all levels of the Company. These
increased demands may cause us to operate our business less efficiently, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of our existing stores or could adversely affect our inventory levels. Furthermore, our ability to conduct business
in international markets may be adversely affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our international expansion strategy and success could also be adversely impacted by the global economy. Failure to properly implement our growth
strategy could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or could otherwise adversely affect our ability to achieve our objectives.  In addition, as we continue to expand our overseas operations, we are subject to certain U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the laws of the foreign countries in which
we operate. We must use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure our employees comply with these laws. If any of our overseas operations, or our employees or agents, violate such laws, we could become subject to sanctions or other penalties
that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Our international expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors, any of which
could delay or prevent successful penetration into new markets or could adversely affect the profitability of our international operations.  As we expand internationally, we may incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining foreign operations. Costs may include, but are not limited to, obtaining prime locations for stores,
setting up foreign offices and distribution centers, as well as hiring experienced management. We may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully, or we may face operational issues that delay our intended pace of international store
openings, and, in any such case, our growth may be limited, unless we can:   


 
•
 
 identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; 
 


 
•
 
 address the different operational characteristics present in each country to which we expand, including employment and labor, transportation,
logistics, real estate, lease provisions and local reporting or legal requirements;   


 
•
 
 negotiate acceptable lease terms, in some cases in locations in which the relative rights and obligations of landlords and tenants differ significantly
from the customs and practices in the United States;   


 
•
 
 hire, train and retain competent store personnel;   


 
•
 
 gain and retain acceptance from foreign customers;   


 
•
 
 manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; 
 


 
•
 
 expand infrastructure to accommodate growth;   


 
•
 
 foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise;
  


 
•
 
 generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plan;
  


 
•
 
 manage foreign currency exchange risks effectively; and 
 


 
•
 
 achieve acceptable operating margins from new stores.  Failure to implement our international expansion plan consistent with our internal expectations, whether as a result of one or more of the factors listed above or other factors could adversely affect our
ability to achieve the objectives that we have established for ourselves.  Our direct-to-consumer sales are subject
to numerous risks that could adversely impact sales.  We sell merchandise for each brand over the Internet, both
domestically and internationally. Our direct-to-consumer operations are subject to numerous risks, including:   


 
•
 
 reliance on third-party computer hardware/software providers; 
 


 
•
 
 rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems and platforms; 
 


 
•
 
 diversions of sales from our stores;   


 
•
 
 liability for online content;   


 
•
 
 violations of state, federal or international laws, including those relating to online privacy; 
  12 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 credit card fraud;   


 
•
 
 the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses;
  


 
•
 
 telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions; and 
 


 
•
 
 disruption of Internet service, whether for technical reasons or as a result of state-sponsored censorship. 
Our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our direct-to-consumer business, as well as damage our
reputation and brands.  We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs related to store closures.
 We may incur costs associated with store closures resulting from, among other things, lease termination agreements
associated with closing stores prior to the stores’ lease expiration date. These costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We previously announced our intention to
close underperforming domestic stores, primarily through natural lease expirations, as part of our efforts to increase domestic store productivity.  Our development of a new brand concept such as Gilly Hicks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 
Historically, we have developed and launched new brands internally that have contributed to our sales growth. Our most recent brand, Gilly
Hicks, offers bras, underwear, personal care products, sleepwear and at-home products for girls. The development of new brand concepts such as Gilly Hicks requires management’s focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments.
Furthermore, a new brand concept is susceptible to risks, including lack of customer acceptance, competition from existing or new retailers, product differentiation, production and distribution inefficiencies and unanticipated operating issues.
There is no assurance that a new brand concept, including Gilly Hicks, will achieve successful results. The failure of Gilly Hicks to be launched successfully, and to achieve profitability, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. The costs of exiting a brand are significant. In Fiscal 2009, we incurred pre-tax exit costs of $56.1 million and pre-tax impairment charges of $51.5 million associated with the closure of RUEHL. In
addition, the ongoing development of new concepts may place a strain on available resources.  Fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  The functional
currency of our international subsidiaries is generally the local currency in which each operates, which includes British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Danish Kroner, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen, Singapore Dollars, Swedish
Kronor and Swiss Francs. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, we must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or
at the end of the reporting period. In addition, our international subsidiaries transact in currencies other than their functional currency, including intercompany transactions, which could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses. The
fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could impact our financial results. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Furthermore, we purchase substantially our entire inventory in U.S. dollars. As a result,
our gross margin rate from international operations is subject to volatility from movements in exchange rates over time, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and profitability from the growth
desired from international operations.  Our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted
or cease to operate effectively.  We rely heavily on our information technology systems: to operate our websites;
record and process transactions; respond to customer inquiries; manage inventory; purchase; sell and ship merchandise on a timely basis; and maintain cost-efficient operations. Given the significant number of transactions that are completed
annually, it is vital to maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems and maintain cyber security. Despite efforts to prevent such an occurrence, our information technology systems are vulnerable from time-to-time to
damage or interruption from computer viruses, power outages, third-party intrusions and other technical malfunctions. If our systems are damaged, or fail to function properly, we may have to make monetary investments to repair or replace the
systems, and we could endure delays in our operations. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related
to customer orders, to be lost or delayed. Such a loss or delay could — especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during our peak selling seasons — result in delays of merchandise delivery to our stores and customers, which could
reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales and profitability to decline.  Comparable store sales may
continue to fluctuate on a regular basis and impact the volatility of the price of our Common Stock.  Our
comparable store sales, defined as year-over-year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and the square footage of which has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20%, have fluctuated significantly in the past
on an annual and quarterly basis and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that a variety of factors affect comparable store sales results including, but not limited to, fashion trends, actions by competitors or mall anchor
tenants, changes in economic conditions and consumer spending patterns, weather conditions, opening and/or closing of our stores in proximity to each other, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our
merchandise mix and the calendar shifts of tax free and holiday periods.  Comparable store sales fluctuations may impact our
ability to leverage fixed direct expenses, including store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, comparable store sales fluctuations may have been an important factor in the volatility of the price of our Common Stock in the past, and it is likely that future comparable store sales
fluctuations will contribute to stock price volatility in the future.  Our market share may be negatively impacted by
increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours.  The
sale of apparel and personal care products through stores and direct-to-consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional, national and
international department stores. The substantial sales growth in the 
  14 


Table of Contents

direct-to-consumer channel within the last few years has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and an increase in competition from established companies. We face a variety of competitive
challenges, including:   


 
•
 
 anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands or preferences better than our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse demographic markets;
  


 
•
 
 sourcing merchandise efficiently;   


 
•
 
 developing innovative, high-quality merchandise in styles that appeal to our consumers and in ways that favorably distinguish us from our competitors;
and   


 
•
 
 countering the aggressive promotional activities of many of our competitors without diminishing the aspirational nature of our brands and brand equity.
 In light of the competitive challenges we face, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future.
Further, increases in competition could reduce our sales and harm our operating results and business. 
Our stock price may be volatile and investors may not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at or above
the price paid to acquire the shares.  The price of our Common Stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in
losses for investors. The market price of our Common Stock has been volatile. From February 1, 2009 to January 28, 2012, the price of our Common Stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $16.95 per share to a high
of $78.25 per share. We expect our Common Stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control.  Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls in which most of our stores are located. 
In order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls. Our stores
benefit from the ability of the malls’ “anchor” tenants, generally large department stores and other area attractions, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of malls in the U.S. and,
increasingly, in many international locations as shopping destinations. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls in the United States or around the world; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new
shopping malls; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping malls. All of these factors may impact our ability to meet our productivity targets for our domestic stores and our growth objectives for
our international stores, which are primarily mall-based, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions, particularly in certain regions, have affected mall traffic and
resulted in the closing of certain anchor stores. The viability of certain commercial and real estate firms, which operate major shopping malls, has also been threatened. In addition, some malls that were in prominent locations when we opened stores
may cease to be viewed as prominent. If this trend continues or if the popularity of mall shopping continues to decline generally among our customers, our sales may decline, which would impact our gross profits and net income. 
 
  15 


Table of Contents
Part of our future growth is dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable
locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. We cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. 
Our net sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis, causing our results of operations to be susceptible to changes in Back-to-School
and Holiday shopping patterns.  Historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a significant amount of net
sales and net income occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, due to the increased sales during the Holiday selling season and, to a lesser extent, the third fiscal quarter, reflecting increased sales during the Back-to-School selling season in the
U.S. Our net sales and net income during the first and second fiscal quarters are typically lower due, in part, to the traditional slowdown in retail sales immediately following the Holiday selling season. As a result of this seasonality, net sales
and net income during any fiscal quarter cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our annual results. Any factors negatively affecting us during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including inclement weather or unfavorable economic
conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. 
Our inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on
our results.  We must order and keep appropriate merchandise in stock to meet demand. As a result, the inability to
accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. High inventory levels due to unanticipated decreases in demand for our products,
misidentification of fashion trends, or excess inventory purchases could require us to sell merchandise at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins and negatively impact our profitability. Low levels of inventory
due to conservative planning could also affect product offerings in our stores and on our websites, and negatively impact net sales and profitability.  Our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands.  Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brands. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity
about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety or environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and
potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Public perception about our products or our stores, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brands and have a material
adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our
reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. 
We rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on
our business.  Our senior executive officers closely supervise all aspects of our business — in particular,
the design of our merchandise and the operation of our stores. Our senior executive officers have substantial 
  16 


Table of Contents

experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our brands. If we were to lose the benefit of their involvement — in
particular the services of any one or more of Michael S. Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Diane Chang, Executive Vice President — Sourcing; Leslee K. Herro, Executive Vice President — Planning and Allocation; Jonathan E.
Ramsden, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ronald A. Robins, Jr., Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary — without adequate succession plans, our business could be adversely affected. Competition for
such senior executive officers is intense, and we cannot be sure we will be able to attract, retain and develop a sufficient number of qualified senior executive officers in future periods. 
Interruption in the flow of merchandise from our key vendors and international manufacturers could disrupt our supply chain,
which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs.  We source the majority of our merchandise outside
of the U.S. through arrangements with approximately 170 vendors which includes foreign manufacturers located throughout the world, primarily in Asia and Central and South America. In addition, many of our domestic manufacturers maintain production
facilities overseas. Political, social or economic instability in Asia, Central or South America, or in other regions in which our manufacturers are located, could cause disruptions in trade, including exports to the U.S. Other events that could
also cause disruptions to exports to the U.S. include:   


 
•
 
 the imposition of additional trade law provisions or regulations; 
 


 
•
 
 reliance on a limited number of shipping and air carriers who may experience capacity issues that adversely affect our ability to ship inventory in a
timely manner or for an acceptable cost;   


 
•
 
 the imposition of additional duties, tariffs and other charges on imports and exports; 
 


 
•
 
 quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements;   


 
•
 
 economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation and recession); 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; 
 


 
•
 
 restrictions on the transfer of funds;   


 
•
 
 the potential of manufacturer financial instability, inability to access needed liquidity or bankruptcy; 
 


 
•
 
 significant labor disputes, such as dock strikes;   


 
•
 
 significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; 
 


 
•
 
 financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured; 
 


 
•
 
 natural disasters; and   


 
•
 
 regulations to address climate change.  In addition, we cannot predict whether the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured, or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to new or additional trade restrictions imposed by the
U.S. or foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S.
or foreign labor strikes and work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
  17 


Table of Contents
We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and, therefore, depend upon
independent third parties for the manufacture of all our merchandise.  We do not own or operate any manufacturing
facilities. As a result, the continued success of our operations is tied to our timely receipt of quality merchandise from third-party manufacturers. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by foreign manufacturers. We cannot
control all of the various factors, which include inclement weather, natural disasters, political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, and acts of
terrorism, that might affect a manufacturer’s ability to ship orders of our merchandise in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards. A manufacturer’s inability to ship orders in a timely manner or meet our quality standards could
cause delays in responding to consumer demands and negatively affect consumer confidence in the quality and value of our brands or negatively impact our competitive position, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. We are also susceptible to increases in sourcing costs from our manufacturers which we may not be able to pass on to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
 Additionally, while we utilize third-party compliance auditors to visit and monitor the operations of our manufacturers, we do
not have control of the independent manufacturers or their labor practices. As a result, the risk remains that one or more of our manufacturers will not adhere to our global compliance standards and violate labor laws or other laws, including
consumer and product safety laws. Non-governmental organizations might attempt to create an unfavorable impression of our sourcing practices or the practices of some of our vendors or manufacturers that could harm our image. If either of these
events occur, we could lose customer goodwill and favorable brand recognition.  Our reliance on two distribution
centers domestically and two third-party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers. 
Our two distribution centers located in New Albany, Ohio, manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise to
our North American stores and to our North American and Asian direct-to-consumer customers. We also use a third-party distribution center in the Netherlands to manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise delivered
to our stores and direct-to-consumer customers in Europe and a third-party distribution center in Hong Kong to manage receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise delivered to our stores in Asia. As a result, our operations are
susceptible to local and regional factors, such as system failures, accidents, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. If our distribution
operations were disrupted, our ability to replace inventory in our stores and process direct-to-consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted.  We are in the process of consolidating our two distribution centers in New Albany into one distribution center, with an expected completion date at the end of Fiscal 2012. This consolidation requires
management’s focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments. We believe this consolidation will result in improved operational efficiencies and that one distribution center in New Albany is adequate. However, if we are unable
to operate effectively with one distribution center, our distribution operations could be disrupted. Furthermore, consolidation into one distribution center increases our susceptibility to risks associated with system failures, accidents, weather
conditions, natural disasters, and other unforeseen 
  18 


Table of Contents

circumstances. If our operations are disrupted, our ability to replace inventory in our stores and process direct-to-consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted.
 Our reliance on third parties to deliver merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores and
direct-to-consumer customers could result in disruptions to our business.  The efficient operation of our stores
and direct-to-consumer business depends on the timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution centers. We deliver our merchandise to our stores and direct-to-consumer customers using independent third parties. We utilize primarily one contract
carrier to ship merchandise and related materials to our North American stores and direct-to-consumer customers, and a separate contract carrier for our European and Asian stores and direct-to-consumer customers. The independent third parties employ
personnel that may be represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of any of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise. There can be no assurance that
such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by a third party to respond adequately to our distribution needs would disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
operations. Furthermore, we are susceptible to increases in fuel costs which may increase the cost of distribution. If we are not able to pass this cost on to our customers, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely
affected.  We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause
us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenues.  A significant portion of our customer orders are placed
through our websites. In addition, a significant portion of sales made through our retail stores requires the collection of certain customer data, such as credit card information. In order for our sales channels to function and develop successfully,
we and other parties involved in processing customer transactions must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or knowledge to breach the
security of customer transaction data. Although we have security measures related to our systems and the privacy of our customers, we cannot guarantee these measures will effectively prevent others from obtaining unauthorized access to our
information and our customers’ information. Any person who circumvents our security measures could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. A security breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of
our websites or stores and choose not to purchase from us. Any security breach could also expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability, and could seriously disrupt operations and harm our reputation, any of which could adversely affect
our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, state, federal and foreign governments are increasingly
enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. These laws and regulations will likely increase the costs of doing business and if we fail to implement appropriate security measures, or to detect and provide prompt notice
of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws and regulations, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
Modifications and/or upgrades to our information technology systems may disrupt our operations. 
We regularly evaluate our information technology systems and requirements and are currently implementing modifications and/or upgrades to
the information technology systems that support our business. Modifications include replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to 
  19 


Table of Contents

existing systems, or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of the inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system
information, system disruptions and user acceptance and understanding. We believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through disciplined adherence to methodology, program management, testing and user involvement, as well as
securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying the replacement technologies. Information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that a successfully implemented system will deliver the anticipated value to us. 
Our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to
natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results. 
Our retail stores, corporate offices, distribution centers, infrastructure projects and direct-to-consumer operations, as well as the
operations of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to damage from natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events. If any of these events result in damage to our facilities, systems or stores, or the facilities or systems of
our vendors or manufacturers, we may experience interruptions in our business until the damage is repaired, resulting in the potential loss of customers and revenues. In addition, we may incur costs in repairing any damage which exceeds our
applicable insurance coverage.  Our business is also vulnerable to any interruption related to an outbreak of a pandemic
disease in countries where we have retail locations or source our merchandise.  Our litigation exposure could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  We are involved, from time-to-time,
in litigation incidental to our business, such as litigation regarding overtime compensation and other employment or wage and hour related matters. Our current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of damaging facts with respect to
legal matters pending against us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with management’s evaluation of the claims. Should management’s evaluation prove incorrect, our exposure could greatly
exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
Our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our
ability to penetrate new markets.  We believe our trademarks, Abercrombie & Fitch®, abercrombie®, Hollister®, Gilly Hicks® and the “Moose” and “Seagull” logos, are an essential element of our strategy. We have obtained
or applied for federal registration of these trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries of countries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. In addition, we own registrations and have pending
applications for other trademarks in the U.S. and have applied for or obtained registrations from the registries in many foreign countries in which our stores or our manufacturers are located. There can be no assurance that we will obtain
registrations that have been applied for or that the registrations we obtain will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If a third party copies our products in a manner that projects
lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be materially adversely affected. 
  20 


Table of Contents
Because we have not yet registered all of our trademarks in all categories, or in all
foreign countries in which we source or offer our merchandise now, or may in the future, our international expansion and our merchandising of products using these marks could be limited. For example, we cannot ensure that others will not try to
block the manufacture, export or sale of our products as a violation of their trademarks or other proprietary rights. The pending applications for international registration of various trademarks could be challenged or rejected in those countries
because third parties of whom we are not currently aware have already registered similar marks in those countries. Accordingly, it may be possible, in those foreign countries where the status of various applications is pending or unclear, for a
third-party owner of the national trademark registration for a similar mark to prohibit the manufacture, sale or exportation of branded goods in or from that country. If we are unable to reach an arrangement with any such party, our manufacturers
may be unable to manufacture our products, and we may be unable to sell in those countries. Our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to
obtain supplies from, or manufacture in, less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan include selling our merchandise in those non-U.S. jurisdictions.  We have an anti-counterfeiting program, under the auspices of the Abercrombie & Fitch Brand Protection Team, whose goal is to eliminate the supply of illegal pieces of our products. The Brand
Protection Team interacts with investigators, customs officials and law enforcement entities throughout the world to combat the illegal use of our trademarks. Although brand security initiatives are in place, we cannot guarantee that our efforts
against the counterfeiting of our brands will be successful.  Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax
rate may result in volatility in our operating results.  We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain
foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales, consumption or value-added taxes (or “VAT”) in many jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments,
which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of foreign and domestic tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing
authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our
effective tax rate in any given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. Fluctuations in duties could also have a material impact on
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In some international markets, we are required to hold and submit VAT to the appropriate local tax authorities. Failure to correctly calculate or submit the appropriate amounts could
subject us to substantial fines and penalties that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, tax legislation may be enacted in the future, domestically or abroad, that impacts our
current or future tax structure and effective tax rate.  The effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a
material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.  The continued threat of terrorism and
the associated heightened security measures and military actions in response to acts of terrorism have disrupted commerce and have intensified uncertainties in the U.S. economy. Any further acts of terrorism or a future war may disrupt commerce and
undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales revenue by causing consumer spending and/or mall 
  21 


Table of Contents

traffic to decline. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, or any other unforeseen interruption of commerce, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our
ability to obtain merchandise from foreign manufacturers. Our inability to obtain merchandise from our foreign manufacturers or substitute other manufacturers, at similar costs and in a timely manner, could adversely affect our operating results and
financial condition.  Our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately
reserve for self-insured exposures might increase our expenses and adversely impact our financial results.  We
believe that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management in certain areas of our business. Insurance costs may increase substantially in the future and may be affected by natural catastrophes, fear of terrorism, financial
irregularities and other fraud at publicly-held companies, intervention by the government or a decrease in the number of insurance carriers. In addition, the carriers with which we hold our policies may go out of business, or may be otherwise unable
to fulfill their contractual obligations. Furthermore, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with earthquakes, hurricanes or terrorist attacks, we may determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices,
if at all. Therefore, we may choose to forego or limit our purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self-insure one or more types or levels of risk. We are primarily self-insured for workers’ compensation and employee
health benefits. If we suffer a substantial loss that is not covered by commercial insurance or our self-insurance reserves, the loss and attendant expenses could harm our business and operating results. In addition, exposures could exist for which
no insurance may be available and for which we have not reserved.  Operating results and cash flows at the store
level may cause us to incur impairment charges.  Long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment, are reviewed
at the store level at least annually for impairment, or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that a full recovery of net asset values through future cash flows is in question. The review could result in significant charges related to
underperforming stores which could impact our results of operations.  Furthermore, our impairment review requires us to make
estimates and projections regarding, but not limited to, future cash flows. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for our store locations and other property and equipment. If these estimates or projections
change or prove incorrect, we may be, and have been, required to record impairment charges on certain store locations and other property and equipment. We have recognized significant impairment charges in the past and may do so in the future.
 We are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment
laws that could require us to modify our current business practices, incur increased costs or harm our reputation if we do not comply.  We are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection, general privacy, health information privacy, identity theft, online privacy, unsolicited
commercial communication and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and distribution centers. As our business
becomes more international in scope and we enter more countries internationally, the number of laws and regulations that we are subject to, as well as their scope and reach, increase significantly and heighten our risks. If these laws and
regulations were to change, or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, vendors or other parties with whom we do business, the costs of 
  22 


Table of Contents

certain merchandise could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our merchandise, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our
merchandise and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to protect personally identifiable information of our customers or associates could subject us to considerable reputational harm, as well as significant fines,
penalties and sanctions both domestically and abroad. In addition, changes in federal, state and international minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could
hurt our profitability. We are also subject to U.S. securities laws and regulations as well as stock exchange rules which could subject us to enforcement actions, de-listing and adverse legal sanctions for non-compliance. 
Changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
 Laws and regulations at the state, federal and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of
compliance cannot be precisely estimated. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory landscape. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more
stringent legislation including those related to health care, taxes, transportation and logistics, privacy, environmental issues, trade, product safety or employment and labor, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
 Our unsecured Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”) and our
Term Loan Agreement include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations.  Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement expires on July 27, 2016, and market conditions could potentially impact the size and terms of a replacement facility. The commitment of the lenders to make
loans under the Term Loan Agreement expires on February 22, 2013 and the Term Loan Agreement has a maturity date of February 23, 2017.  Both our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement contain financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. If we fail to
comply with the covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result, and the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we cannot guarantee that we would
have sufficient liquidity at that time to repay or refinance borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and/or the Term Loan Agreement.  The inability to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms, or a default under the current Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and/or the Term Loan Agreement, could adversely impact our liquidity
and results of operations.  Our operations may be affected by regulatory changes related to climate change and
greenhouse gas emissions.  Our operations may be affected by regulatory changes related to climate change and
greenhouse gas emissions. We are uncertain how the U.S. and international economies will be affected by potential legislation and public reactions. As a result, the effect this could have on our operations is presently unknown. 
 
  23 


Table of Contents
Compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate
governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results.  Changing regulatory requirements for corporate governance and public disclosure, including SEC regulations and the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s accounting standards requirements are
creating additional complexities for public companies. For example, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive
compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access. Stockholder activism, the current political environment,
financial reform legislation and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations. In addition, the expected future requirement to transition to, or converge
with, international financial reporting standards is creating uncertainty and additional complexities. These changing regulatory requirements may lead to additional compliance costs, as well as the diversion of our management’s time and
attention from strategic business activities and could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. 
  24 


Table of Contents


ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None. 
  25 


Table of Contents


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES.  The Company’s headquarters and support functions occupy 491 acres, consisting of the home office, distribution and shipping facilities centralized on a campus-like setting in New Albany, Ohio and an
additional small distribution and shipping facility located in the Columbus, Ohio area, all of which are owned by the Company. Additionally, the Company leases small facilities to house its design and sourcing support centers in Hong Kong, New York
City and Los Angeles, California, as well as offices in the United Kingdom, Japan, Switzerland, Italy and China.  All of the
retail stores operated by the Company, as of March 16, 2012, are located in leased facilities, primarily in shopping centers in North America, Europe and Asia. The leases expire at various dates, between 2012 and 2031. 
The Company’s home office, distribution and shipping facilities, design support centers and stores are currently suitable and
adequate.  As of March 16, 2012, the Company’s 1,047 stores were located in North America, Europe and Asia as
follows:   




















 U.S. & U.S. Territories:
   

 Alabama
  
 
6
 
  
Kentucky
  
 
9
 
  
North Dakota
  
 
1
 

 Alaska
  
 
1
 
  
Louisiana
  
 
10
 
  
Ohio
  
 
31
 

 Arizona
  
 
16
 
  
Maine
  
 
4
 
  
Oklahoma
  
 
7
 

 Arkansas
  
 
7
 
  
Maryland
  
 
19
 
  
Oregon
  
 
10
 

 California
  
 
130
 
  
Massachusetts
  
 
34
 
  
Pennsylvania
  
 
44
 

 Colorado
  
 
10
 
  
Michigan
  
 
26
 
  
Rhode Island
  
 
3
 

 Connecticut
  
 
20
 
  
Minnesota
  
 
16
 
  
South Carolina
  
 
10
 

 Delaware
  
 
5
 
  
Mississippi
  
 
2
 
  
South Dakota
  
 
1
 

 District Of Columbia
  
 
1
 
  
Missouri
  
 
14
 
  
Tennessee
  
 
21
 

 Florida
  
 
74
 
  
Montana
  
 
2
 
  
Texas
  
 
87
 

 Georgia
  
 
22
 
  
Nebraska
  
 
4
 
  
Utah
  
 
8
 

 Hawaii
  
 
5
 
  
Nevada
  
 
13
 
  
Vermont
  
 
2
 

 Idaho
  
 
3
 
  
New Hampshire
  
 
10
 
  
Virginia
  
 
23
 

 Illinois
  
 
40
 
  
New Jersey
  
 
40
 
  
Washington
  
 
20
 

 Indiana
  
 
21
 
  
New Mexico
  
 
3
 
  
West Virginia
  
 
5
 

 Iowa
  
 
7
 
  
New York
  
 
54
 
  
Wisconsin
  
 
13
 

 Kansas
  
 
5
 
  
North Carolina
  
 
26
 
  
Puerto Rico
  
 
1
 








 International Stores:
  



  

  



  

  




 Canada
  
 
19
 
  
France
  
 
5
 
  
Sweden
  
 
2
 

 Denmark
  
 
1
 
  
China
  
 
3
 
  

  




 Germany
  
 
15
 
  
Belgium
  
 
3
 
  

  




 Italy
  
 
7
 
  
Ireland
  
 
1
 
  

  




 Japan
  
 
2
 
  
Austria
  
 
3
 
  

  




 Spain
  
 
9
 
  
Hong Kong
  
 
1
 
  

  




 United Kingdom
  
 
29
 
  
Singapore
  
 
1
 
  

  




  26 


Table of Contents


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.  A&F is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversary proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are generally
expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules. Moreover, the Company’s assessment of the current exposure could change in the event
of the discovery of additional facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries, administrative agencies or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with the Company’s evaluation of
claims. Actual liabilities may exceed the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
 The Company intends to defend the following pending matters vigorously, as appropriate. The Company’s identified
contingencies include the following matters:  On September 16, 2005, a derivative action, styled The Booth Family Trust v.
Michael S. Jeffries, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, naming A&F as a nominal defendant and seeking to assert claims for unspecified damages against nine of A&F’s present and
former directors, alleging various breaches of the directors’ fiduciary duty and seeking equitable and monetary relief. In the following three months, four similar derivative actions were filed (three in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Ohio and one in the Court of Common Pleas for Franklin County, Ohio) against present and former directors of A&F alleging various breaches of the directors’ fiduciary duty allegedly arising out of antecedent employment
law and securities class actions brought against the Company. A consolidated amended derivative complaint was filed in the federal proceeding on July 10, 2006. On February 16, 2007, A&F announced that its Board of Directors had
received a report of the Special Litigation Committee established by the Board to investigate and act with respect to claims asserted in the derivative cases, which concluded that there was no evidence to support the asserted claims and directed the
Company to seek dismissal of the derivative cases. On September 10, 2007, the Company moved to dismiss the federal derivative cases on the authority of the Special Litigation Committee Report. On March 12, 2009, the Company’s motion
was granted and, on April 10, 2009, plaintiffs filed an appeal from the order of dismissal in the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. On April 5, 2011, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
reversed the decision of the District Court and remanded the action for further proceedings. On November 1, 2011, the District Court entered an order which gave preliminary approval to a proposed settlement of the consolidated derivative
litigation. The District Court also set a hearing (the “Fairness Hearing”) for December 13, 2011 to determine whether the proposed settlement should be finally approved and to consider an award of fees and expenses to plaintiffs’
counsel. The District Court also directed that notice be given to the Company’s stockholders concerning the proposed settlement and their right to be heard in connection with the Fairness Hearing. On December 19, 2011, the District Court,
after the Fairness Hearing, entered a final order (1) approving the proposed settlement submitted to the District Court by the parties to the derivative litigation and (2) dismissing with prejudice all claims contained in the 2005
derivative cases. The District Court’s order also resulted in dismissal of the state-court derivative action, which had been stayed pending resolution of the federal derivative cases. 
On December 21, 2007, Spencer de la Cruz, a former employee, filed an action against Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and
Abercrombie & Fitch Stores, Inc. (collectively, the “Defendants”) in the Superior Court of Orange County, California (the “Court”). He sought to allege, on behalf of himself and a putative class of past and present
employees in the period beginning on December 19, 2003, claims for 
  27 


Table of Contents

failure to provide meal breaks, for waiting time penalties, for failure to keep accurate employment records, and for unfair business practices. By successive amendments, plaintiff added 10
additional plaintiffs and additional claims seeking injunctive relief, unpaid wages, penalties, interest, and attorney’s fees and costs. Defendants denied the material allegations of plaintiffs’ complaints throughout the litigation and
asserted numerous affirmative defenses. On July 23, 2010, plaintiffs moved for class certification in the action. On December 9, 2010, after briefing and argument, the Court granted in part and denied in part plaintiffs’ motion,
certifying sub-classes to pursue meal break claims, meal premium pay claims, work related travel claims, travel expense claims, termination pay claims, reporting time claims, bag check claims, pay record claims, and minimum wage claims. The parties
continued to litigate questions relating to the Court’s certification order and to the merits of plaintiffs’ claims until January 25, 2012. On that date, the named plaintiffs and the Defendants signed a memorandum of understanding
which, subject to final Court approval, was intended to result in a full and final settlement of all claims in the action on a class-wide basis. A formal Settlement Agreement and related papers were filed with the Court on February 21, 2012 and
the Court scheduled a hearing on March 14, 2012 to determine whether to provide preliminary approval to the proposed settlement and to order that notice of the proposed settlement be given to the absent members of the settlement class. On
March 14, 2012, the Court continued the hearing to April 18, 2012. As of January 28, 2012, the Company increased its litigation reserve to cover the expected cost of the proposed settlement. 
On October 17, 2011, Amber Echavez a former employee, filed an action against Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and two of its
subsidiaries (collectively, the “Defendants”) in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California. She alleged the Defendants violated California labor laws by failing to provide suitable seats for her and for other current and former
employees. She sought to maintain the suit as a class action on behalf of a class of retail sales employees and also as a representative action under California’s Private Attorney General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”). On November 23,
2011, the Defendants removed the action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California (the “Court”) and on February 6, 2012, moved (1) to dismiss the action for failure to state a claim and
(2) to strike plaintiff’s class allegations. On March 12, 2012, the Court entered an order denying Defendants’ motion to dismiss and granting Defendants’ motion to strike plaintiff’s class allegations. The parties are
continuing to litigate plaintiff’s remaining claims. 
  28 


Table of Contents


ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.  Not applicable. 
  29 


Table of Contents
SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. 
Set forth below is certain information regarding the executive officers of A&F as of March 16, 2012: 
Michael S. Jeffries, 67, has been Chairman of A&F since May 1998. Mr. Jeffries has been Chief Executive Officer of A&F since
February 1992. From February 1992 to May 1998, Mr. Jeffries held the title of President of A&F. Under the terms of the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, between A&F and Mr. Jeffries, A&F is
obligated to cause Mr. Jeffries to be nominated as a director of A&F during his employment term.  Diane Chang, 56, has
been Executive Vice President — Sourcing of A&F since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Chang held the position of Senior Vice President — Sourcing of A&F from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President —
Sourcing of A&F from May 1998 to February 2000.  Leslee K. Herro, 51, has been Executive Vice President — Planning and
Allocation of A&F since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Herro held the position of Senior Vice President — Planning and Allocation of A&F from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President — Planning &
Allocation of A&F from February 1994 to February 2000.  Jonathan E. Ramsden, 47, has been Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of A&F since December 2008. From December 1998 to December 2008, Mr. Ramsden served as Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Executive Committee of TBWA Worldwide, a large advertising agency network and a
division of Omnicom Group Inc. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer of TWBA Worldwide, he served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of Omnicom Group Inc. from June 1996 to December 1998. 
Ronald A. Robins, Jr., 48, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of A&F since August 2010. Mr. Robins
joined A&F in November 2009 as Deputy General Counsel after spending 16 years at Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease LLP, 13 years as a partner in the firm’s corporate and finance practice group. Mr. Robins clerked for The
Honorable Milton Pollack of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York from 1989 to 1990. Before joining Vorys, Mr. Robins practiced for several years as an associate at Davis Polk & Wardwell in New York
City.  The executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of A&F and, in the case of Mr. Jeffries,
pursuant to an employment agreement. 
  30 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. 
A&F’s Class A Common Stock (the “Common Stock”) is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“ANF.” The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of A&F’s Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010:   












 
  
Sales Price
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Fiscal 2011
  



  




 4th Quarter
  
$
76.33
  
  
$
43.56
  

 3rd Quarter
  
$
77.49
  
  
$
55.70
  

 2nd Quarter
  
$
78.25
  
  
$
62.46
  

 1st Quarter
  
$
72.61
  
  
$
48.40
  





 Fiscal 2010
  



  




 4th Quarter
  
$
58.50
  
  
$
41.55
  

 3rd Quarter
  
$
45.75
  
  
$
33.97
  

 2nd Quarter
  
$
45.71
  
  
$
29.94
  

 1st Quarter
  
$
51.12
  
  
$
31.31
  
 A quarterly dividend, of $0.175 per share, was paid in each of March, June, September and December in each
of Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2011. A&F expects to continue to pay a quarterly dividend, subject to the Board of Directors’ review of the Company’s cash position and results of operations. 
As of March 16, 2012, there were approximately 4,300 stockholders of record. However, when including investors holding shares in
broker accounts under street name, active associates of the Company who participate in A&F’s stock purchase plan, and associates of the Company who own shares through A&F-sponsored retirement plans, A&F estimates that there are
approximately 42,360 stockholders.  The following table provides information regarding the purchase of shares of the Common
Stock of A&F made by or on behalf of A&F or any “affiliated purchaser” as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, during each fiscal month of the quarterly period ended January 28,
2012:   




















 Period (Fiscal Month) 
  
Total Numberof
SharesPurchased(1) 
 
  
AveragePrice 
Paidper Share(2)
 
  
Total Number ofShares 
Purchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plans orPrograms(3) 
 
 
Maximum Number ofShares that
May Yetbe Purchased underthe Plans
orPrograms(4) 
 

 October 30, 2011 through November 26, 2011 
  
 
1,019,876 
  
  
$
49.15 
  
  
 
1,017,290 
  
 
 
7,218,968 
  

 November 27, 2011 through December 31, 2011 
  
 
1,002,878 
  
  
$
47.91 
  
  
 
1,000,000 
  
 
 
6,218,968 
  

 January 1, 2012 through January 28, 2012 
  
 
471 
  
  
$
47.40 
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
6,218,968 
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
 




 Total 
  
 
2,023,225 
  
  
$
48.53 
  
  
 
2,017,290 
  
 
 
6,218,968 
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 An aggregate of 5,935 of the shares of A&F’s Common Stock purchased during the thirteen-week period ended January 28, 2012, represented
shares which were withheld for tax payments due upon the 
  31 


Table of Contents


 

vesting of employee restricted stock unit and restricted share awards and upon the exercise of employee stock appreciation rights. All other shares of A&F Common Stock purchased during the
quarterly period were purchased pursuant to A&F’s publically announced stock repurchase authorization described in footnote 3 below.   


(2)
 The average price paid per share includes broker commissions, as applicable. 
 


(3)
 The reported shares were purchased pursuant to A&F’s publicly announced stock repurchase authorization. On November 21, 2007, A&F
announced the November 20, 2007 authorization by A&F’s Board of Directors to repurchase 10.0 million shares of A&F’s Common Stock. 
 


(4)
The number shown represents, as of the end of each period, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may yet be purchased under A&F’s publicly
announced stock repurchase authorization described in footnote 3 above. The shares may be purchased, from time-to-time, depending on market conditions.  During Fiscal 2011, A&F repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of A&F’s Common Stock in the open market with a cost of approximately $196.6 million. During Fiscal 2010, A&F
repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of A&F’s Common Stock in the open market with a cost of approximately $76.2 million. A&F did not repurchase any shares of A&F’s Common Stock in the open market during Fiscal
2009. Both the Fiscal 2011 and the Fiscal 2010 repurchases were pursuant to authorizations of A&F’s Board of Directors. 
  32 


Table of Contents
The following graph shows the changes, over the five-year period ended January 28, 2012
(the last day of A&F’s Fiscal 2011) in the value of $100 invested in (i) shares of A&F’s Common Stock; (ii) the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index (the “S&P 500 Index”) and (iii) the
Standard & Poor’s Apparel Retail Composite Index (the “S&P Apparel Retail Index”), including reinvestment of dividends. The plotted points represent the closing price on the last trading day of the fiscal year indicated.
 PERFORMANCE GRAPH(1)  COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*  Among Abercrombie &
Fitch Co., the S&P 500 Index  and the S&P Apparel Retail Index 
  

  


*
$100 invested on 2/3/07 in stock or 1/31/07 in index, including reinvestment of dividends. 


  
Indexes calculated on month-end basis. 


  
 Copyright©
2011 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.   
 
(1) This graph shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the SEC or
subject to SEC Regulation 14A or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), except to the extent that A&F specifically requests that the graph be treated as soliciting
material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. 
  33 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.  ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO.  FINANCIAL SUMMARY 
(Thousands, except per share and per square foot amounts, ratios and store and associate data) 
Summary of Operations  (Information below excludes amounts related to discontinued operations, except where otherwise noted)   
























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Net Sales 
  
$
4,158,058
  
 
$
3,468,777
 
 
$
2,928,626
 
 
$
3,484,058
 
 
$
3,699,656
  

 Gross Profit 
  
$
2,518,870
  
 
$
2,212,181
 
 
$
1,883,598
 
 
$
2,331,095
 
 
$
2,488,166
  

 Operating Income 
  
$
190,030
  
 
$
231,932
 
 
$
117,912
 
 
$
498,262
 
 
$
778,909
  

 Net Income from Continuing Operations 
  
$
126,862
  
 
$
150,283
 
 
$
78,953
 
 
$
308,169
 
 
$
499,127
  

 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of
Tax(1)
  
$
796
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
(78,699
) 
 
$
(35,914
) 
 
$
(23,430
)  

 Net Income(1)
  
$
127,658
  
 
$
150,283
 
 
$
254
 
 
$
272,255
 
 
$
475,697
  

 Dividends Declared Per Share 
  
$
0.70
  
 
$
0.70
 
 
$
0.70
 
 
$
0.70
 
 
$
0.70
  

 Net Income Per Share from Continuing Operations 
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic 
  
$
1.46
  
 
$
1.71
 
 
$
0.90
 
 
$
3.55
 
 
$
5.72
  

 Diluted 
  
$
1.42
  
 
$
1.67
 
 
$
0.89
 
 
$
3.45
 
 
$
5.45
  

 Net Income (Loss) Per Share from Discontinued
Operations(1)
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic 
  
$
0.01
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
(0.90
) 
 
$
(0.41
) 
 
$
(0.27
)  

 Diluted 
  
$
0.01
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
(0.89
) 
 
$
(0.40
) 
 
$
(0.26
)  

 Net Income Per Share(1)
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic 
  
$
1.47
  
 
$
1.71
 
 
$
0.00
 
 
$
3.14
 
 
$
5.45
  

 Diluted 
  
$
1.43
  
 
$
1.67
 
 
$
0.00
 
 
$
3.05
 
 
$
5.20
  

 Basic Weighted-Average Shares Outstanding 
  
 
86,848
  
 
 
88,061
 
 
 
87,874
 
 
 
86,816
 
 
 
87,248
  

 Diluted Weighted-Average Shares Outstanding 
  
 
89,537
  
 
 
89,851
 
 
 
88,609
 
 
 
89,291
 
 
 
91,523
  

 Other Financial Information 
  



 



 



 



 




 Total Assets (including discontinued operations)
  
$
3,048,153
  
 
$
2,941,415
 
 
$
2,821,866
 
 
$
2,848,181
 
 
$
2,567,598
  

 Return on Average Assets(2)
  
 
4
% 
 
 
5
% 
 
 
0
% 
 
 
10
% 
 
 
20
%  

 Working Capital(3)
  
$
783,422
  
 
$
874,417
 
 
$
776,311
 
 
$
622,213
 
 
$
585,575
  

 Current Ratio(4)
  
$
2.11
  
 
$
2.56
 
 
$
2.73
 
 
$
2.38
 
 
$
2.08
  

 Net Cash Provided by Operating
Activities(1)
  
$
365,219
  
 
$
391,789
 
 
$
395,487
 
 
$
491,031
 
 
$
817,524
  

 Capital Expenditures 
  
$
318,598
  
 
$
160,935
 
 
$
175,472
 
 
$
367,602
 
 
$
403,345
  

 Long-Term Debt 
  
$
57,851
  
 
$
68,566
 
 
$
71,213
 
 
$
100,000
 
 
$
—
  

 Stockholders’ Equity (including discontinued operations) 
  
$
1,862,456
  
 
$
1,890,784
 
 
$
1,827,917
 
 
$
1,845,578
 
 
$
1,618,313
  

 Return on Average Stockholders’
Equity(5)
  
 
7
%  
 
 
8
% 
 
 
0
% 
 
 
16
% 
 
 
31
%  

 Comparable Store Sales(6)
  
 
5
%  
 
 
7
% 
 
 
(23
)% 
 
 
(13
)% 
 
 
(1
)%  

 Net Store Sales Per Average Gross Square Foot 
  
$
463
  
 
$
390
 
 
$
339
 
 
$
432
 
 
$
503
  

 Stores at End of Year and Average Associates 
  



 



 



 



 




 Total Number of Stores Open 
  
 
1,045
  
 
 
1,069
 
 
 
1,096
 
 
 
1,097
 
 
 
1,013
  

 Gross Square Feet 
  
 
7,778
  
 
 
7,756
 
 
 
7,848
 
 
 
7,760
 
 
 
7,133
  

 Average Number of Associates(7)
  
 
91,000
  
 
 
83,000
 
 
 
83,000
 
 
 
96,200
 
 
 
94,600
  
  


(1)
 Includes results
of operations from RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations. Results from discontinued operations were immaterial in Fiscal 2010. 
 


(2)
 Return on Average
Assets is computed by dividing net income (including discontinued operations) by the average asset balance (including discontinued operations). 
  34 


Table of Contents


(3)
 Working Capital is
computed by subtracting current liabilities (including discontinued operations) from current assets (including discontinued operations).   


(4)
 Current Ratio is
computed by dividing current assets (including discontinued operations) by current liabilities (including discontinued operations).   


(5)
 Return on Average
Stockholders’ Equity is computed by dividing net income (including discontinued operations) by the average stockholders’ equity balance (including discontinued operations). 
 


(6)
 A store is
included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. 
 


(7)
 Includes employees
from RUEHL operations. 
  35 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 
OVERVIEW  The
Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31, typically resulting in a fifty-two week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a fifty-three week year. A store is included in comparable
store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year.  For purposes of this “ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,” the fifty-two week period ended January 28, 2012 is compared to
the fifty-two week period ended January 29, 2011 and the fifty-two week period ended January 29, 2011 is compared to the fifty-two week period ended January 30, 2010. 
The Company had net sales of $4.158 billion for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012, an increase of 20% from $3.469 billion
for the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011. Operating income for Fiscal 2011 was $190.0 million, which was down from $231.9 million in Fiscal 2010.  Net income from continuing operations was $126.9 million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share was $1.42 in Fiscal 2011, compared to net income from continuing operations of $150.3
million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share of $1.67 in Fiscal 2010.  Excluding charges for impairments
and write-downs of store-related long-lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements and a change in intent regarding the Company’s auction rate securities (ARS), the Company
reported adjusted, non-GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.30 for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012. Excluding store-related asset impairment charges and exit charges associated with domestic store
closures, the Company reported non-GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.05 for the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011. 
 
  36 


Table of Contents
The Company believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors as they
provide the ability to measure the Company’s operating performance and compare it against that of prior periods without reference to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income impact of non-cash, store-related asset
impairment charges, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the fiscal year and a change in intent regarding the Company’s ARS. These non-GAAP financial measures should not
be used as alternatives to net income per diluted share or as indicators of the ongoing operating performance of the Company and are also not intended to supersede or replace the Company’s GAAP financial measures. The table below reconciles the
GAAP financial measures to the non-GAAP financial measures discussed above.   












 
  
Fifty-Two Weeks Ended
 

 
  
January 28, 2012
 
  
January 29, 2011
 

 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a GAAP basis 
  
$
1.42
 
  
$
1.67
 

 Plus: Asset impairment charges(1)
  
 
0.49
 
  
 
0.34
 

 Plus: Asset write-downs(2)
  
 
0.10
 
  
 
—
  

 Plus: Store closure and lease exit charges(3)
  
 
0.13
 
  
 
0.03
 

 Plus: Legal charges(4)
  
 
0.07
 
  
 
—
  

 Plus: ARS charges(5)
  
 
0.09
 
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a non-GAAP basis 
  
$
2.30
 
  
$
2.05
 

 Plus: Net income from discontinued operations 
  
 
0.01
 
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis 
  
$
2.31
 
  
$
2.05
 
  


(1) 
 The store-related asset impairment charges relate to stores whose asset carrying value exceeded their fair value. For the fifty-two week period ended
January 28, 2012, the charge was associated with 14 Abercrombie & Fitch, 21 abercrombie kids, 42 Hollister and two Gilly Hicks stores. For the fifty-two week period ended January 29, 2011, the charge was associated with two
Abercrombie & Fitch, two abercrombie kids, nine Hollister and 13 Gilly Hicks stores.   


(2) 
 For the fifty-two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the asset write-downs was related to the reconfiguration of three
flagship stores and a small write-off related to a cancelled flagship project.   


(3) 
 For the fifty-two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, the charges for store closures and lease exits were associated
with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental costs associated with store closures. 
 


(4) 
 For the fifty-two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge was related to legal settlements during the fourth quarter.
  


(5) 
 For the fifty-two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the ARS was related to a change in intent with regard to the
Company’s auction rate securities portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment.  Net cash provided by operating activities, the Company’s primary source of liquidity, was $365.2 million for Fiscal 2011. This source of cash was primarily driven by results from operations,
adjusted for non-cash items, an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses partially offset by increases in inventory. The Company used $318.6 million of cash for capital expenditures. The Company

  37 


Table of Contents

also repurchased $196.6 million of Common Stock, paid dividends totaling $61.0 million, repaid borrowings under the credit agreement of $45.0 million and received $46.5 million in proceeds from
the exercise of stock options during Fiscal 2011. As of January 28, 2012, the Company had $583.5 million in cash and equivalents, no outstanding debt aside from that related to landlord financing obligations, and immaterial stand-by letters of
credit.  The following data represents the amounts shown in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Comprehensive Income for the last three fiscal years, expressed as a percentage of net sales:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 NET SALES
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of Goods Sold
  
 
39.4
 
 
 
36.2
 
 
 
35.7
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 GROSS PROFIT
  
 
60.6
 
 
 
63.8
 
 
 
64.3
 

 Stores and Distribution Expense
  
 
45.4
 
 
 
45.8
 
 
 
48.7
 

 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense
  
 
10.5
 
 
 
11.6
 
 
 
12.1
 

 Other Operating Expense (Income), Net
  
 
0.1
 
 
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
(0.5
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OPERATING INCOME
  
 
4.6
 
 
 
6.7
 
 
 
4.0
 

 Interest Expense (Income), Net
  
 
0.1
 
 
 
0.1
 
 
 
(0.1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES
  
 
4.5
 
 
 
6.6
 
 
 
4.1
 

 Tax Expense from Continuing Operations
  
 
1.4
 
 
 
2.3
 
 
 
1.4
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
  
 
3.1
 
 
 
4.3
 
 
 
2.7
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, Net of Taxes
  
 
0.0
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2.7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
  
 
3.1
% 
 
 
4.3
% 
 
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  38 


Table of Contents
FINANCIAL SUMMARY 
The following summarized financial and statistical data compares Fiscal 2011 to Fiscal 2010, Fiscal 2010 to Fiscal 2009, and Fiscal 2009
to Fiscal 2008:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net sales by segment (in thousands)
  
$
4,158,058
 
 
$
3,468,777
 
 
$
2,928,626
 

 U.S. Stores
  
$
2,710,842
 
 
$
2,546,798
 
 
$
2,377,771
 

 International Stores
  
$
876,613
 
 
$
505,136
 
 
$
256,216
 

 Direct-to-consumer
  
$
552,603
 
 
$
404,974
 
 
$
290,102
 

 Other
  
$
18,000
 
 
$
11,869
 
 
$
4,537
 






 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year
  
 
20
% 
 
 
18
% 
 
 
(16
)% 

 U.S. Stores
  
 
6
% 
 
 
7
% 
 
 
(21
)% 

 International Stores
  
 
74
% 
 
 
97
% 
 
 
70
% 

 Direct-to-consumer
  
 
36
% 
 
 
40
% 
 
 
(8
)% 

 Other
  
 
52
% 
 
 
162
% 
 
 
15
% 






 Net sales by brand (in thousands)
  
$
4,158,058
 
 
$
3,468,777
 
 
$
2,928,626
 

 Abercrombie & Fitch
  
$
1,665,135
 
 
$
1,493,101
 
 
$
1,272,287
 

 abercrombie
  
$
397,904
 
 
$
382,579
 
 
$
343,164
 

 Hollister
  
$
2,022,002
 
 
$
1,552,814
 
 
$
1,287,241
 

 Gilly Hicks**
  
$
73,017
 
 
$
40,283
 
 
$
25,934
 






 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year
  
 
20
% 
 
 
18
% 
 
 
(16
)% 

 Abercrombie & Fitch
  
 
12
% 
 
 
17
% 
 
 
(17
)% 

 abercrombie
  
 
4
% 
 
 
11
% 
 
 
(18
)% 

 Hollister
  
 
30
% 
 
 
21
% 
 
 
(15
)% 

 Gilly Hicks
  
 
81
% 
 
 
55
% 
 
 
45
% 






 Increase (decrease) in comparable store sales*
  
 
5
% 
 
 
7
% 
 
 
(23
)% 

 Abercrombie & Fitch
  
 
3
% 
 
 
9
% 
 
 
(19
)% 

 abercrombie
  
 
4
% 
 
 
5
% 
 
 
(23
)% 

 Hollister
  
 
8
% 
 
 
6
% 
 
 
(27
)% 
  


  *
A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand 12 months or more and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more
than 20% within the past year.   


**
Net sales for the fifty-two week periods ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 reflect the activity of 21, 19 and 16 stores,
respectively.  CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK 
Our results for Fiscal 2011 were below our expectations in a very challenging environment. During Fiscal 2011, we saw all-time high
cotton costs, resulting in higher average unit costs. In addition, we were not able to offset the increases in the costs with increased average unit retail prices due to a highly aggressive promotional environment in the U.S. We expect to see a
significant reversal in the average unit cost trend in Fiscal 2012, especially in the second half of the year; however, we remain cautious about our ability to raise average unit retail prices in the U.S. We expect significant margin improvement in
Fiscal 2012 due primarily to a combination of average unit cost reductions and the expected performance of our 
  39 


Table of Contents

new international stores and our direct-to-consumer business. We will continue to take a long-term approach, and will not sacrifice quality to achieve cost reductions. 
We are confident that we are on track in regard to our long-term strategy of leveraging the international appeal of our brands to build a
highly profitable, sustainable, global business. There are five key elements to this strategy.  First, continuing to provide
high-quality, trend-right merchandise and a compelling and differentiated store experience.  Second, continuing to close
underperforming U.S. chain stores. During Fiscal 2011, we closed 68 U.S. chain stores, predominately at the end of the year through natural lease expirations, bringing the total stores closed over the last two years to 135 stores. 
Third, advancing our direct-to-consumer business, which should benefit from multiple investments we are making in the business and from
our growing international presence.  Fourth, continuing to focus on our highly profitable international real estate plan.
During Fiscal 2011, we opened five new A&F flagship stores and 39 international Hollister stores. In Fiscal 2012, we expect to open A&F flagship or “Tier 1” stores in Hamburg, Hong Kong, Munich, Amsterdam and Dublin, and we expect
to open close to 40 Hollister international stores.  Finally, maintaining tight control over expenses and seeking greater
efficiencies, for example, through consolidation of our two domestic distribution centers. The consolidation is expected to be completed by the end of Fiscal 2012 and is expected to facilitate the sale or lease of the second distribution center and
result in reduced operating costs.  Based on these factors, we anticipate strong EPS growth in Fiscal 2012, notwithstanding an
approximately flat same-store sales assumption. Longer-term, our objective remains to deliver consistent and sustainable growth in sales and EPS. We believe trend rates of close to 15% in sales and somewhat above that in EPS are realistic goals.
 The following measurements are among the key business indicators reviewed by various members of management to gauge the
Company’s results:   


 
•
 
 Comparable store sales, defined as year-over-year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has
not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year;   


 
•
 
 Direct-to-consumer sales growth;   


 
•
 
 U.S. and International store performance;   


 
•
 
 Store productivity;   


 
•
 
 Initial Mark Up (“IMU”);   


 
•
 
 Markdown rate;   


 
•
 
 Gross profit rate;   


 
•
 
 Selling margin, defined as sales price less original cost, by brand and by product category; 
 


 
•
 
 Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales; 
 


 
•
 
 Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales; 
 
  40 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Operating income and operating income as a percentage of net sales; 
 


 
•
 
 Net income;   


 
•
 
 Inventory per gross square foot;   


 
•
 
 Cash flow and liquidity determined by the Company’s current ratio and cash provided by operations; and 
 


 
•
 
 Store metrics such as sales per gross square foot, sales per selling square foot, average unit retail, average number of transactions per store,
average transaction values, store contribution (defined as store sales less direct costs of running the store), and average units per transaction.  While not all of these metrics are disclosed publicly by the Company due to the proprietary nature of the information, the Company publicly discloses and discusses many of these metrics as part of its
“Financial Summary” and in several sections within this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  FISCAL 2011 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2010  Net Sales 
Net sales for Fiscal 2011 were $4.158 billion, an increase of 20% from Fiscal 2010 net sales of $3.469 billion. The net sales increase was
attributable to new stores, primarily international, a 5% increase in comparable store sales, and a 36% increase in the direct-to-consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue. The impact of foreign currency on sales (based on
converting prior year sales at current year exchange rates) for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 was a benefit of $21.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively.  Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $2.711 billion, an increase of 6% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $2.547 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $876.6 million,
an increase of 74% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $505.1 million.  Direct-to-consumer sales in Fiscal 2011, including shipping and
handling revenue, were $552.6 million, an increase of 36% from Fiscal 2010 direct-to-consumer sales of $405.0 million. The direct-to-consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 13.3% of total net sales in Fiscal 2011
compared to 11.7% in Fiscal 2010.  Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2011 were as follows: Abercrombie &
Fitch increased 3%, with men’s and women’s increasing by a low single digit percent. abercrombie kids increased 4%, with guys increasing by a high single digit and girls increasing by a low single digit. Hollister increased 8%, with dudes
and bettys increasing by a high single digit.  On a comparable store sales basis, the Southern and the Western regions of the
U.S. were the strongest performing regions, while Canada and Japan were the weakest.  From a merchandise classification
standpoint, fleece, active wear, and knit tops were stronger performing categories for the male business while graphics and woven shirts were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, sweaters, and knit tops were
stronger performing categories, while graphics and dresses were weaker performing categories.   
  41 


Table of Contents
Gross Profit 
Gross profit during Fiscal 2011 was $2.519 billion compared to $2.212 billion during Fiscal 2010. The gross profit rate (gross profit
divided by net sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 60.6%, down 320 basis points from the Fiscal 2010 rate of 63.8%.  The decrease in the
gross profit rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in average unit cost combined with higher markdowns. 
Stores and Distribution Expense  Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2011 was $1.888 billion compared to $1.590 billion in Fiscal 2010. The stores and distribution expense rate (stores and distribution expense divided by net
sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 45.4% compared to 45.8% in Fiscal 2010.  Stores and distribution expense for the fifty-two week
period ended January 28, 2012 included store-related asset impairment charges of $68.0 million associated with 79 stores, asset write-down charges of $14.6 million related to the reconfiguration of three flagship stores and a small write-off
related to a cancelled flagship project, and store exit charges of $19.0 million, associated with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental
costs associated with store closures. For the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011, stores and distribution expense included store-related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4
million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year.  The decrease in stores and distribution expense
rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy costs as a percentage of net sales.  Shipping and handling
costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct-to-consumer operations were $53.6 million and $38.9 million for Fiscal
2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $62.8 million and $42.8 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. These amounts are
recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.  Marketing, General and
Administrative Expense  Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2011 was $437.1 million compared to
$400.8 million in Fiscal 2010. For Fiscal 2011, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate (marketing, general and administrative expense divided by net sales) was 10.5%, compared to 11.6% for Fiscal 2010. Marketing, general and
administrative expense for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 included $10.0 million in charges in connection with fourth quarter legal settlements.  In addition to legal settlement charges, the increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2011 was primarily due to increases in compensation, including equity compensation,
outside services, marketing, travel and IT expenses.  Other Operating Expense (Income), Net 
Other operating expense, net was $3.5 million compared to other operating income, net of $10.1 million for Fiscal 2010. Other operating
expense, net for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 
  42 


Table of Contents

included $13.4 million of expense related to a change in the Company’s intent regarding the sale of its ARS portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment in
Fiscal 2011.  Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense 
Fiscal 2011 interest expense was $7.9 million, offset by interest income of $4.3 million, compared to interest expense of $7.8 million,
offset by interest income of $4.4 million for Fiscal 2010.  The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2011 was 32.0% compared to 34.3%
for Fiscal 2010, in each year benefiting from foreign operations.  As of January 28, 2012, there were approximately $25.6
million of net deferred tax assets in Japan with a valuation allowance of $2.4 million. The valuation allowance in Japan was established as the result of changes to the business configuration of operations in Japan, as well as tax law changes. The
realization of the net deferred tax assets not subject to a valuation allowance is dependent upon the future generation of sufficient profits in Japan. While the Company believes it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be
realized, it is not certain. Should circumstances change, some or all of the net deferred tax assets not currently subject to a valuation allowance may be in the future. Any increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional tax expense.
 Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax 
The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal
2009. Accordingly, the after-tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for all years presented. Results from discontinued operations,
net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010.  Refer to Note 17, “Discontinued Operations,” of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in “ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.  Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share  Net income for Fiscal
2011 was $127.7 million compared to $150.3 million for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 was $1.43 compared to $1.67 for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 included store-related asset impairment
charges of approximately $0.49 per diluted share, asset write-down charges of approximately $0.10 per diluted share, store closure and exit charges of approximately $0.13 per diluted share, legal charges of approximately $0.07 per diluted share, and
other-than-temporary impairment charges of approximately $0.09 per diluted share related to a change in intent regarding the Company’s ARS portfolio. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store-related asset impairment charges
of approximately $0.34 per diluted share and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share. Refer to the GAAP reconciliation table in the “OVERVIEW” section of “ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS” for a reconciliation of net income per diluted share on a GAAP basis to net income per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis, excluding charges for impairment and write-downs of store related
long-lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the quarter and with a change in intent regarding the Company’s ARS. 
  43 


Table of Contents
FISCAL 2010 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2009 
Net Sales  Net sales for Fiscal 2010 were $3.469 billion, an increase of 18% from Fiscal 2009 net sales of $2.929 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable store sales, a 40%
increase in the direct-to-consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, and new stores, primarily international. The impact of foreign currency on sales for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 was less than 1% of net sales. 
Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $2.547 billion, an increase of 7% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $2.378 billion. Total
Company international store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $505.1 million, an increase of 97% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $256.2 million.  Direct-to-consumer sales in Fiscal 2010, including shipping and handling revenue, were $405.0 million, an increase of 40% from Fiscal 2009 direct-to-consumer sales of $290.1 million. The
direct-to-consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.7% of total net sales in Fiscal 2010 compared to 9.9% in Fiscal 2009.  Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2010 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 9%, with women’s increasing by a high single digit percent and men’s increasing by a low
double digit. abercrombie kids increased 5%, with girls and guys each increasing by a mid single digit. Hollister increased 6%, with bettys increasing by a mid single digit and dudes increasing by a high single digit. 
On a comparable store sales basis, Europe was the strongest performing region, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. 
For Fiscal 2010, from a comparable store sales perspective across all brands, the masculine categories out-paced the feminine categories.
From a merchandise classification standpoint, woven shirts, fleece, and outerwear were stronger performing categories for the male business while jeans and graphics were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts,
dresses, and fleece were stronger performing categories, while knit tops and jeans were weaker performing categories. 
Gross Profit  Gross profit during Fiscal 2010 was $2.212 billion compared to $1.884 billion during Fiscal 2009. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was 63.8%, down 50 basis points from the Fiscal 2009 rate of 64.3%.
 The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by a 9% decrease in average unit retail, which was
partially offset by a reduction in average unit cost.  Stores and Distribution Expense 
Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2010 was $1.590 billion compared to $1.426 billion in Fiscal 2009. The stores and distribution
expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was 45.8% compared to 48.7% in Fiscal 2009.  Stores and distribution expense for the fifty-two
week period ended January 29, 2011 included store-related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. For the
fifty-two weeks ended January 30, 2010, stores and distribution expense included store-related asset impairment charges associated with 99 stores of $33.2 million. 
  44 


Table of Contents
The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by
lower store occupancy and payroll costs as a percentage of net sales.  Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to
store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct-to-consumer operations were $38.9 million and $30.7 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively.
Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $42.8 million and $34.1 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution
Expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  Marketing, General and Administrative Expense 
Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2010 was $400.8 million compared to $353.3 million in Fiscal 2009. For Fiscal
2010, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.6%, compared to 12.1% for Fiscal 2009.  The increase in
marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2010 was primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits, including incentive and equity compensation, and net legal expense. 
Other Operating Income, Net  Other operating income, net for Fiscal 2010 was $10.1 million compared to $13.5 million for Fiscal 2009.  The decrease for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower net gains from foreign currency denominated transactions compared to Fiscal 2009. In Fiscal 2009, other operating income also benefited from a
reduction of an other-than-temporary impairment of $9.2 million related to the Company’s trading auction rate securities, partially offset by a reduction of a related put option of $7.7 million. 
Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense from Continuing Operations 
Fiscal 2010 interest expense was $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million, compared to interest income of $8.2 million,
offset by interest expense of $6.6 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest income was primarily the result of a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due primarily to imputed interest expense
related to certain store lease transactions and higher fees associated with the unsecured amended credit agreement.  The
effective tax rate from continuing operations for Fiscal 2010 was 34.3% compared to 33.9% for Fiscal 2009, in each year benefiting from foreign operations.  Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax  The Company completed
the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after-tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated
Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $78.7 million for Fiscal 2009. 
Refer to Note 17, “Discontinued Operations,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share 
Net income for Fiscal 2010 was $150.3 million compared to $0.3 million for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 was
$1.67 compared to $0.00 for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store-related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share associated with 26 stores and store exit charges of approximately $0.03
per diluted share associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2009 included store-related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.23 per diluted share associated with 99 stores and a loss per
diluted share from discontinued operations, net of tax, of approximately $0.89.  FINANCIAL CONDITION 
Liquidity and Capital Resources  Historical Sources and Uses of Cash  Seasonality of Cash Flows
 The retail business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal
quarters (“Spring”) and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters (“Fall”). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to
Back-to-School and Holiday sales periods, particularly in the U.S. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operating expenses throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to
support future growth. The Company also has a credit facility and the term loan agreement available as sources of additional funding.  Credit Agreements  On July 28, 2011, the Company entered into an
unsecured amended and restated credit agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”) under which up to $350 million will be available. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement serves to amend and restate, in its entirety, the
credit agreement dated April 15, 2008 as previously amended (the “Prior Credit Agreement”). The primary reasons for entering into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement were to extend the termination date from April 12, 2013
to July 27, 2016 and to reduce fees and interest rates.  As of March 16, 2012, the Company had approximately $350
million available under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement on January 28, 2012. The Company had $43.8 million outstanding under the Prior Credit
Agreement on January 29, 2011 denominated in Japanese Yen. The average interest rate was 2.4% for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012.  The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement has a Leverage Ratio and a Coverage Ratio. The Company was in compliance with the applicable ratio requirements and other covenants at January 28, 2012.
 The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is described in Note 15, “Long-Term Debt,” of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.  Subsequent to year end, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take
advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Refer to Note 21, “Subsequent Event,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 
Stand-by letters of credit outstanding on January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were immaterial. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Operating Activities 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $365.2 million for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 compared to $391.8
million for fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by timing in tax payments, partially offset by an increase in net income adjusted for non-cash items. 
Investing Activities  Cash outflows for investing activities for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were used primarily for capital expenditures related to new store construction and
information technology investments, as well as the acquisition of intangible assets. Cash outflows for capital expenditures were higher in Fiscal 2011 than in Fiscal 2010, due to an increase in the number of new international retail locations,
including flashship locations, as well as Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology infrastructure projects. Cash inflows from investing activities were less in Fiscal 2011 due to a reduction in proceeds from sales of marketable
securities.  Financing Activities  For the fifty-two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the repurchase of A&F’s Common Stock, the
payment of dividends and repayments of outstanding borrowings denominated in Japanese Yen under the Company’s Prior Credit Agreement. These outflows were partially offset by cash inflows from the receipt of proceeds associated with the exercise
of share-based compensation awards.  During the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012, A&F repurchased approximately
3.5 million shares of A&F’s Common Stock in the open market with a market value of approximately $196.6 million. During the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011, A&F repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of
A&F’s Common Stock in the open market with a market value of $76.2 million. Both the Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 repurchases were pursuant to the A&F Board of Directors’ authorization. 
As of January 28, 2012, A&F had approximately 6.2 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the
November 20, 2007 A&F Board of Directors’ authorization to repurchase 10.0 million shares of A&F’s Common Stock. 
Future Cash Requirements and Sources of Cash  Over the next twelve months, the Company’s primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, rent, taxes
and other operating activities, as well as increasing capital expenditures and paying of quarterly dividend payments to stockholders subject to the A&F Board of Directors’ approval. The Company also has availability under the Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement as a source of additional funding. In addition, on February 24, 2012, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and
liquidity.  Subject to suitable market conditions, A&F expects to continue to repurchase shares of its Common Stock. The
Company anticipates funding these cash requirements with available cash and as appropriate, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement.  The Company is not dependent on foreign cash to fund its U.S. operations or dividends to shareholders and does not expect the need to repatriate foreign cash to meet cash needs. 
  47 


Table of Contents
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
As of January 28, 2012, the Company did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 
Contractual Obligations   
























 
  
 
 
  
Payments due by period (thousands)
 

 Operating Activities:
  
Total
 
  
Less than 1 year
 
  
1-3 years
 
  
3-5 years
 
  
More than 5 years
 

 Operating Lease Obligations
  
$
3,053,632
 
  
$
389,540
 
  
$
745,994
 
  
$
651,015
 
  
$
1,267,083
 

 Purchase Obligations
  
 
208,917
 
  
 
208,917
 
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Other Obligations
  
 
44,853
 
  
 
15,271
 
  
 
18,918
 
  
 
2,706
 
  
 
7,958
 

 Interest Related to Total Debt
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Totals
  
$
3,307,402
 
  
$
613,728
 
  
$
764,912
 
  
$
653,721
 
  
$
1,275,041
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Financing Activities:
  



  



  



  



  




 Total Debt
  
 
20,917
 
  
 
924
 
  
 
2,099
 
  
 
2,527
 
  
 
15,367
 

 Dividends
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Totals
  
$
20,917
 
  
$
924
 
  
$
2,099
 
  
$
2,527
 
  
$
15,367
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Obligations for Operating Activities 
Operating lease obligations consist primarily of future minimum lease commitments related to store operating leases. See Note 11,
“Leased Facilities,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for further discussion. Operating lease
obligations do not include common area maintenance (“CAM”), insurance, marketing or tax payments for which the Company is also obligated. Total expense related to CAM, insurance, marketing and taxes was $158.8 million in Fiscal 2011.
 The purchase obligations category represents purchase orders for merchandise to be delivered during Fiscal 2012 and
commitments for fabric expected to be used during upcoming seasons.  Other obligations consist primarily of lease termination
obligations related to the closure of stores, asset retirement obligations, agreements to purchase intellectual property and information technology contracts for Fiscal 2011. See Note 15, “Long-Term Debt,” of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in “ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for further discussion of the letters of credit and construction debt. 
Due to uncertainty as to the amounts and timing of future payments, the contractual obligations table above does not include tax
(including accrued interest and penalties) of $19.5 million related to unrecognized tax benefits at January 28, 2012. Deferred taxes are also not included in the preceding table. For further discussion, see Note 14, “Income
Taxes,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
The table above does not include estimated future retirement payments under the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plan (the “SERP”) for the Company’s Chief Executive Officer with a present value of $14.6 million at January 28, 2012. See Note 18, “Retirement Benefits,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in “ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the description of the SERP to be 
  48 


Table of Contents

included in the text under the caption “EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION” in A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14,
2012, incorporated by reference in “ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Obligations for Financing Activities  Total debt reflects amounts related to landlord financing obligations for certain leases where the Company is deemed the owner of the construction project for accounting purposes, as substantially all of
the risk of ownership during construction of a leased property is held by the Company. The landlord financing obligation is amortized over the life of the related lease. A&F has historically paid quarterly dividends on its Common Stock. There
are no amounts included in the above table related to dividends due to the fact that dividends are subject to determination and approval by A&F’s Board of Directors. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Year-To-Date Store Count and Gross Square Feet 
Store count and gross square footage by brand for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively,
were as follows:   
























 Store Activity
  
Abercrombie & Fitch
 
 
abercrombie
 
 
Hollister
 
 
Gilly Hicks
 
  
Total
 

 U.S. Stores
  



 



 



 



  




 January 29, 2011
  
 
316
 
 
 
181
 
 
 
502
 
 
 
18
 
  
 
1,017
 

 New
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Closed
  
 
(36
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
(71
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 January 28, 2012
  
 
280
 
 
 
154
 
 
 
494
 
 
 
18
 
  
 
946
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012
  
 
2,514
 
 
 
727
 
 
 
3,373
 
 
 
176
 
  
 
6,790
 








 International Stores
  



 



 



 



  




 January 29, 2011
  
 
9
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
1
 
  
 
52
 

 New
  
 
5
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
2
 
  
 
47
 

 Closed
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 January 28, 2012
  
 
14
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
77
 
 
 
3
 
  
 
99
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012
  
 
264
 
 
 
59
 
 
 
642
 
 
 
23
 
  
 
988
 

 Total Stores
  
 
294
 
 
 
159
 
 
 
571
 
 
 
21
 
  
 
1,045
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012
  
 
2,778
 
 
 
786
 
 
 
4,015
 
 
 
199
 
  
 
7,778
 








 Store Activity
  
Abercrombie & Fitch
 
 
abercrombie
 
 
Hollister
 
 
Gilly Hicks
 
  
Total
 

 U.S. Stores
  



 



 



 



  




 January 30, 2010
  
 
340
 
 
 
205
 
 
 
507
 
 
 
16
 
  
 
1,068
 

 New
  
 
4
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
1
 
  
 
12
 

 Remodels/Conversions (net activity)
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
1
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1
 
  
 
1
 

 Closed
  
 
(27
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
(64
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 January 29, 2011
  
 
316
 
 
 
181
 
 
 
502
 
 
 
18
 
  
 
1,017
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011
  
 
2,813
 
 
 
845
 
 
 
3,424
 
 
 
176
 
  
 
7,258
 








 International Stores
  



 



 



 



  




 January 30, 2010
  
 
6
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
—
  
  
 
28
 

 New
  
 
3
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
20
 
 
 
1
 
  
 
24
 

 Closed
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 January 29, 2011
  
 
9
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
1
 
  
 
52
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011
  
 
142
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
315
 
 
 
7
 
  
 
498
 

 Total Stores
  
 
325
 
 
 
185
 
 
 
540
 
 
 
19
 
  
 
1,069
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011
  
 
2,955
 
 
 
879
 
 
 
3,739
 
 
 
183
 
  
 
7,756
 

  50 


Table of Contents
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES  Capital expenditures totaled $318.6 million, $160.9 million and $175.5 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. A summary of capital expenditures is as follows: 
 
















 Capital Expenditures (in millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 New Store Construction, Store Refreshes and Remodels
  
$
258.0
 
  
$
118.0
 
  
$
137.0
 

 Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology
  
 
60.6
 
  
 
42.9
 
  
 
38.5
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Capital Expenditures
  
$
318.6
 
  
$
160.9
 
  
$
175.5
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 During Fiscal 2012, based on new store opening plans and other capital expenditure plans, the Company
expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $400 million.  CLOSURE OF RUEHL BRANDED STORES AND RELATED DIRECT-TO-CONSUMER
OPERATIONS  On June 16, 2009, A&F’s Board of Directors approved the closure of the Company’s 29 RUEHL
branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of the RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. 
Costs associated with exit or disposal activities are recorded when the liability is incurred. During Fiscal 2011, the Company made gross
cash payments totaling approximately $15.9 million, related primarily to the final lease termination agreements associated with the closure of RUEHL branded stores.   








 
 
Fifty-Two Weeks EndedJanuary
28, 2012
 

 Beginning Balance 
 
$
17.2
 

 Interest Accretion / Other, Net 
 
 
(1.3
) 

 Cash Payments 
 
 
(15.9
) 


 
  
  
 

 Ending Balance 
 
$
—
  


 
  
  
 
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  Accounting Standards Codification 820-10 “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures,” (“ASC 820-10”) was amended in January 2010 to require additional disclosures related to
recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfer; and information on
purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 31, 2010. The
disclosure guidance adopted on January 31, 2010, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2011, ASC 820-10 was further amended to clarify certain disclosure requirements and improve consistency with international
reporting standards. This amendment is to be applied prospectively and is effective for the Company beginning January 28, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
 Accounting Standards Codification Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income,” was amended in June 2011 to require entities to
present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive 
  51 


Table of Contents

income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendment does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income
must be reclassified to net income under current GAAP. This guidance is effective for the Company’s fiscal year and interim periods beginning January 29, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its
consolidated financial statements.  Critical Accounting Estimates 
The Company’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s
consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Since actual results may differ from those estimates, the Company revises its estimates and assumptions as new information becomes available. 
The Company believes the following policies are the most critical to the portrayal of the Company’s financial condition and results
of operations.   






 Policy
  
 Effect if Actual Results Differ from
Assumptions

 Revenue Recognition
  


 The Company recognizes retail sales at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise. The Company reserves for sales returns
through estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The value of point of sale coupons that result in a reduction of the price paid by the customer is recorded as a reduction of
sales.   The Company recognized direct-to-consumer sales based on an
estimated date for customer receipt of merchandise. The Company reserves for direct-to-consumer sales not received by the customer based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable.
  The Company sells gift cards in its stores and through direct-to-consumer operations.
The Company accounts for gift cards sold to customers by recognizing a liability at the time of sale. The liability remains on the Company’s books until the earlier of redemption (recognized as revenue) or when the Company determines the
likelihood of redemption is remote, known as breakage (recognized as other operating income), based on historical redemption patterns.
  
 The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the sales return reserve and revenue
recognition for gift cards over the past three fiscal years.   The Company
does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to measure the sales return reserve or to measure the timing and amount of future gift card redemptions as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these
assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material.  
A 10% change in the sales return reserve as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre-tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011.
  A 10% change in the direct-to-consumer reserve for merchandise not received by the
customer as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre-tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011.   A 10% change in the assumption of the breakage for gift cards as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre-tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal
2011.
  52 


Table of Contents






 Policy
  
 Effect if Actual Results Differ from
Assumptions




 Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”)
  


As a result of the market failure and lack of liquidity in the current ARS market, the Company measures the fair value of its ARS primarily using a discounted cash flow model, as
well as a comparison to similar securities in the market. Certain significant inputs into the model are unobservable in the market including the periodic coupon rate adjusted for the marketability discount, market required rate of return and
expected term.
  
 While the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS securities, the Company has not made any material changes in the
accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS.   The
Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur,
and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material.   Assuming all other assumptions disclosed in Note 7, “Fair Value,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, being equal, a 50 basis point increase in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% increase in impairment and a 50 basis point decrease in the market required rate of return
would yield approximately a 15% decrease in impairment.
  53 


Table of Contents






 Policy
  
 Effect if Actual Results Differ from
Assumptions




 Inventory Valuation
  


 Inventories are principally valued at the lower of average cost or market utilizing the retail method.
  The Company reduces inventory value by recording a valuation reserve that represents
estimated future permanent markdowns necessary to sell-through the inventory. The valuation reserve can fluctuate depending on the timing of markdowns previously recognized.
  Additionally, as part of inventory valuation, an inventory shrink estimate is made
each period that reduces the value of inventory for lost or stolen items.
  
 The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the shrink reserve or the valuation
reserve over the past three fiscal years.   The Company does not expect
material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the shrink reserve or valuation reserve as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could
significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost, as well as the resulting gross margin(s).   An increase or decrease in the valuation reserve of 10% would have affected pre-tax income by approximately $7.2 million for Fiscal 2011.





  
An increase or decrease in the inventory shrink accrual of 10% would have been immaterial to pre-tax income for Fiscal
2011.
  54 


Table of Contents






 Policy
  
 Effect if Actual Results Differ from
Assumptions




 Property and Equipment
  


 Long-lived assets, primarily comprised of property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
full recoverability of net asset group balances through future cash flows is in question. In addition, the Company conducts an annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of each year. For the purposes of the annual review, the Company reviews
long-lived assets associated with stores that have an operating loss in the current year and have been open for at least two full years.  
The Company’s impairment calculation requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to factors used in the evaluation for impairment,
including, but not limited to, management’s expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in our undiscounted future cash flow model include sales, gross margin and, to a lesser extent, operating
expenses.
  
 The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine impairment loss over the past three fiscal
years.   During Fiscal 2011, 107 stores were tested for impairment during
the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011 as part of our annual review of all stores. Of the 107 stores tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011, 79 failed step one and were impaired. Of the 28 stores not impaired, 18 stores, with an
aggregate net asset group value of $10.6 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were 150% or more of this net asset group value. Ten stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $32.3 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were in the
range of 105% to 150% of this net asset group value.   The Company does not
expect material changes in the near term to the assumptions underlying its impairment calculations as of January 28, 2012. However, if changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact
on the Company’s determination of whether or not there has been an impairment.   A 10% decrease in the sales assumption would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $38.0 million for Fiscal 2011. A decrease in the gross margin assumption of 10% would have increased the
impairment charge by approximately $39.3 million for Fiscal 2011.
  55 


Table of Contents






 Policy
  
 Effect if Actual Results Differ from
Assumptions




 Income Taxes
  


 The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach. Tax laws often require items to be included in tax
filings at different times than the items are being reflected in the financial statements. A current liability is recognized for the estimated taxes payable for the current year. Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur
when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are adjusted for enacted changes in tax rates and tax laws. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not
that a tax benefit will not be realized.   A provision for U.S. income tax
has not been recorded on undistributed profits of non-U.S. subsidiaries that the Company has determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability on these unremitted
earnings is not practicable because of the complexities associated with this hypothetical calculation.
  
 The Company does not expect material changes in the judgments, assumptions or interpretations used to calculate the tax provision for
Fiscal 2011. However, changes in these assumptions may occur and should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Company’s income tax provision.
  If the Company’s intention or U.S. tax law changes in the future, there may be a
significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes to record an incremental tax liability in the period the change occurs.




 Equity Compensation Expense
  


The Company’s equity compensation expense related to stock options and stock appreciation rights is estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair
value of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants, which requires the Company to estimate the expected term of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants and expected future stock price volatility over the expected
term.
  
During Fiscal 2011, the Company granted stock appreciation rights covering an aggregate of 2,252,895 shares and no stock options. A 10% increase in the expected term would have
yielded a 4% increase in the Black-Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year, while a 10% increase in stock price volatility would have yielded a 9% increase in the Black-Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights
granted during the year.
  56 


Table of Contents






 Policy
  
 Effect if Actual Results Differ from
Assumptions




 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
  


 Effective February 2, 2003, the Company established a Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to provide
additional retirement income to its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Subject to service requirements, the CEO will receive a monthly benefit equal to 50% of his final average compensation (as defined in the SERP) for life. The final average
compensation used for the calculation is based on actual compensation (base salary and actual annual cash incentive compensation) averaged over the last 36 consecutive full calendar months ending before the CEO’s retirement.
  The Company’s accrual for the SERP requires management to make assumptions and
judgments related to the CEO’s final average compensation, life expectancy and discount rate.
  
 The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the accrual for the SERP
as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material.
  A 10% increase in final average compensation as of January 28, 2012 would increase
the SERP accrual by approximately $1.5 million. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate as of January 28, 2012 would decrease the SERP accrual by an immaterial amount.




 Legal Contingencies
  


The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversarial proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims
and lawsuits are expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules.
  
Actual liabilities may exceed or be less than the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

  57 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.  Investment Securities  The Company maintains its cash equivalents in
financial instruments, primarily money market funds and United States treasury bills, with original maturities of three months or less.  The Company also holds investments in investment grade auction rate securities (“ARS”) that have maturities ranging from 16 to 31 years. The par and carrying values, and related cumulative
other-than-temporary impairment charges for the Company’s available-for-sale marketable securities as of January 28, 2012 were as follows:   
















 
  
ParValue
 
  
Other-than-TemporaryImpairment
 
 
CarryingValue
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Available-for-sale securities:
  



  



 




 Auction rate securities — student loan backed
  
$
92,975
 
  
$
(8,325
) 
 
$
84,650
 

 Auction rate securities — municipal authority bonds
  
 
19,975
 
  
 
(5,117
) 
 
 
14,858
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
112,950
 
  
$
(13,442
) 
 
$
99,508
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of January 28, 2012, approximately 46% of the Company’s ARS were “AAA” rated,
approximately 16% of the Company’s ARS were “AA” rated, and approximately 38% of the Company’s ARS were “A–” rated, in each case as rated by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. The ratings take into
account insurance policies guaranteeing both the principal and accrued interest. Each investment in student loans is insured by (1) the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, (2) a private insurer or (3) a
combination of both. The percentage of insurance coverage of the outstanding principal and interest of the ARS varies by security. The credit ratings may change over time and would be an indicator of the default risk associated with the ARS and
could have a material effect on the value of the ARS.  During the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012, the Company
changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS, resulting in recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment of $13.4 million recognized in other expense.  The irrevocable rabbi trust (the “Rabbi Trust”) is intended to be used as a source of funds to match respective funding obligations to participants in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co.
Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan I, the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan II and the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. As of January 28,
2012, total assets held in the Rabbi Trust were $85.1 million and related to trust-owned life insurance policies with a cash surrender value of $85.1 million and an immaterial amount of assets held in money market funds. The trust-owned life
insurance policies are recorded at cash surrender value, in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are restricted as to their use as noted above. Net realized and unrealized gains or losses related to the municipal notes and bonds held
in the Rabbi Trust were not material for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. The change in cash surrender value of the trust-owned life insurance policies held in the Rabbi Trust resulted in realized gains of
$2.5 million and $2.3 million for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. 
Interest Rate Risks  As of January 28, 2012, the Company had no long-term debt outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. 
  58 


Table of Contents
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk 
A&F’s international subsidiaries generally operate with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company’s
Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the Company must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of, the
reporting period. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies affects the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The potential impact of currency fluctuation increases as international expansion
increases.  A&F and its subsidiaries have exposure to changes in currency exchange rates associated with foreign currency
transactions and forecasted foreign currency transactions, including the sale of inventory between subsidiaries and foreign denominated assets and liabilities. Such transactions are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, British Pounds, Canadian
Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Danish Kroner, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen and Swiss Francs. The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to partially offset the risks associated with the effects
of certain foreign currency transactions and forecasted transactions. Under this program, increases or decreases in foreign currency exposures are partially offset by gains or losses on forward contracts, to mitigate the impact of foreign currency
gains or losses. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation. All outstanding foreign currency forward contracts are recorded at fair value at the end of each fiscal period. 
  59 


Table of Contents


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO.  CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  (Thousands, except share and per share amounts) 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 NET SALES
  
$
4,158,058
 
 
$
3,468,777
 
 
$
2,928,626
 

 Cost of Goods Sold
  
 
1,639,188
 
 
 
1,256,596
 
 
 
1,045,028
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 GROSS PROFIT
  
 
2,518,870
 
 
 
2,212,181
 
 
 
1,883,598
 

 Stores and Distribution Expense
  
 
1,888,248
 
 
 
1,589,501
 
 
 
1,425,950
 

 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense
  
 
437,120
 
 
 
400,804
 
 
 
353,269
 

 Other Operating Expense (Income), Net
  
 
3,472
 
 
 
(10,056
) 
 
 
(13,533
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OPERATING INCOME
  
 
190,030
 
 
 
231,932
 
 
 
117,912
 

 Interest Expense (Income), Net
  
 
3,577
 
 
 
3,362
 
 
 
(1,598
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES
  
 
186,453
 
 
 
228,570
 
 
 
119,510
 

 Tax Expense from Continuing Operations
  
 
59,591
 
 
 
78,287
 
 
 
40,557
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
  
$
126,862
 
 
$
150,283
 
 
$
78,953
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, Net of Tax
  
$
796
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
(78,699
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
  
$
127,658
 
 
$
150,283
 
 
$
254
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS:
  



 



 




 BASIC
  
$
1.46
 
 
$
1.71
 
 
$
0.90
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 DILUTED
  
$
1.42
 
 
$
1.67
 
 
$
0.89
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS:
  



 



 




 BASIC
  
$
0.01
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
(0.90
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 DILUTED
  
$
0.01
 
 
$
—
  
 
$
(0.89
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME PER SHARE:
  



 



 




 BASIC
  
$
1.47
 
 
$
1.71
 
 
$
0.00
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 DILUTED
  
$
1.43
 
 
$
1.67
 
 
$
0.00
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 WEIGHTED-AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING:
  



 



 




 BASIC
  
 
86,848
 
 
 
88,061
 
 
 
87,874
 

 DILUTED
  
 
89,537
 
 
 
89,851
 
 
 
88,609
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 DIVIDENDS DECLARED PER SHARE
  
$
0.70
 
 
$
0.70
 
 
$
0.70
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
  



 



 




 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments
  
$
(8,655
) 
 
$
3,399
 
 
$
5,942
 

 Gains (Losses) on Marketable Securities, net of taxes of $(5,526), $366 and $(4,826) for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal
2009, respectively.
  
 
9,409
 
 
 
(622
) 
 
 
8,217
 

 Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Derivative Financial Instruments, net of taxes of $(1,216), $188 and $265 for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010
and Fiscal 2009, respectively.
  
 
12,217
 
 
 
(320
) 
 
 
(451
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other Comprehensive Income
  
$
12,971
 
 
$
2,457
 
 
$
13,708
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
  
$
140,629
 
 
$
152,740
 
 
$
13,962
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  60 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  (Thousands, except par value amounts)   












 
  
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 

 ASSETS
  



 




 CURRENT ASSETS:
  



 




 Cash and Equivalents
  
$
583,495
 
 
$
826,353
 

 Marketable Securities
  
 
84,650
 
 
 
—
  

 Receivables
  
 
89,350
 
 
 
74,777
 

 Inventories
  
 
569,818
 
 
 
385,857
 

 Deferred Income Taxes
  
 
77,120
 
 
 
60,405
 

 Other Current Assets
  
 
84,342
 
 
 
79,389
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS
  
 
1,488,775
 
 
 
1,426,781
 

 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET
  
 
1,197,271
 
 
 
1,154,759
 

 NON-CURRENT MARKETABLE SECURITIES
  
 
14,858
 
 
 
100,534
 

 OTHER ASSETS
  
 
347,249
 
 
 
259,341
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
  
$
3,048,153
 
 
$
2,941,415
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  



 




 Accounts Payable
  
$
211,368
 
 
$
137,235
 

 Accrued Expenses
  
 
375,020
 
 
 
300,100
 

 Deferred Lease Credits
  
 
41,047
 
 
 
41,538
 

 Income Taxes Payable
  
 
77,918
 
 
 
73,491
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES
  
 
705,353
 
 
 
552,364
 

 LONG-TERM LIABILITIES:
  



 




 Deferred Income Taxes
  
 
4,123
 
 
 
33,515
 

 Deferred Lease Credits
  
 
183,022
 
 
 
192,619
 

 Long-Term Debt
  
 
57,851
 
 
 
68,566
 

 Other Liabilities
  
 
235,348
 
 
 
203,567
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
  
 
480,344
 
 
 
498,267
 

 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY:
  



 




 Class A Common Stock — $0.01 par value: 150,000 shares authorized and 103,300 shares issued at each of January 28,
2012 and January 29, 2011
  
 
1,033
 
 
 
1,033
 

 Paid-In Capital
  
 
369,171
 
 
 
349,258
 

 Retained Earnings
  
 
2,320,571
 
 
 
2,272,317
 

 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), net of tax
  
 
6,455
 
 
 
(6,516
) 

 Treasury Stock, at Average Cost — 17,662 and 16,054 shares at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011,
respectively
  
 
(834,774
) 
 
 
(725,308
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  
 
1,862,456
 
 
 
1,890,784
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  
$
3,048,153
 
 
$
2,941,415
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  61 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  (Thousands, except per share amounts)   




































 
 
Common Stock
 
 
Paid-InCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
OtherComprehensive(Loss) Income
 
 
Treasury Stock
 
 
TotalStockholders’Equity
 

 
 
SharesOutstanding
 
 
ParValue
 
 
 
 
 
Shares
 
 
At AverageCost
 
 

 Balance, January 31, 2009
 
 
87,636
 
 
$
1,033
 
 
$
328,488
 
 
$
2,244,936
 
 
$
(22,681
) 
 
 
15,664
 
 
$
(706,198
) 
 
$
1,845,578
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
254
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
254
 

 Dividends ($0.70 per share)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(61,500
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(61,500
) 

 Share-based Compensation Issuances and Exercises
 
 
350
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(19,690
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(350
) 
 
 
18,912
 
 
 
(778
) 

 Tax Deficiency from Share-based Compensation Issuances and Exercises
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5,454
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5,454
) 

 Share-based Compensation Expense
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
36,109
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
36,109
 

 Unrealized Gains on Marketable Securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8,217
 
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
8,217
 

 Net Change in Unrealized Gains or Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(451
) 
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
(451
) 

 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,942
 
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
5,942
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, January 30, 2010
 
 
87,986
 
 
$
1,033
 
 
$
339,453
 
 
$
2,183,690
 
 
$
(8,973
) 
 
 
15,314
 
 
$
(687,286
) 
 
$
1,827,917
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
150,283
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
150,283
 

 Purchase of Common Stock
 
 
(1,582
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,582
 
 
 
(76,158
) 
 
 
(76,158
) 

 Dividends ($0.70 per share)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(61,656
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(61,656
) 

 Share-based Compensation Issuances and Exercises
 
 
842
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(29,741
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(842
) 
 
 
38,136
 
 
 
8,395
 

 Tax Deficiency from Share-based Compensation Issuances and Exercises
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,053
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,053
) 

 Share-based Compensation Expense
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
40,599
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
40,599
 

 Unrealized Losses on Marketable Securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(622
) 
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
(622
) 

 Net Change in Unrealized Gains or Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(320
) 
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
(320
) 

 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,399
 
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
3,399
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, January 29, 2011
 
 
87,246
 
 
$
1,033
 
 
$
349,258
 
 
$
2,272,317
 
 
$
(6,516
) 
 
 
16,054
 
 
$
(725,308
) 
 
$
1,890,784
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
127,658
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
127,658
 

 Purchase of Common Stock
 
 
(3,546
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,546
 
 
 
(196,605
) 
 
 
(196,605
) 

 Dividends ($0.70 per share)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(60,956
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(60,956
) 

 Share-based Compensation Issuances and Exercises
 
 
1,938
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(34,153
) 
 
 
(18,448
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,938
) 
 
 
87,139
 
 
 
34,538
 

 Tax Benefit from Share-based Compensation Issuances and Exercises
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,973
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,973
 

 Share-based Compensation Expense
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
51,093
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
51,093
 

 Losses on Marketable Securities reclassed to the Income Statement
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
9,409
 
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
9,409
 

 Net Change in Unrealized Gains or Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
12,217
 
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
12,217
  

 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(8,655
) 
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
(8,655
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, January 28, 2012
 
 
85,638
 
 
$
1,033
 
 
$
369,171
 
 
$
2,320,571
 
 
$
6,455
 
 
 
17,662
 
 
$
(834,774
) 
 
$
1,862,456
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  62 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Thousands)
 

 OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Net Income
  
$
127,658
 
 
$
150,283
 
 
$
254
 

 Impact of Other Operating Activities on Cash Flows:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and Amortization
  
 
232,956
 
 
 
229,153
 
 
 
238,752
 

 Non-Cash Charge for Asset Impairment
  
 
68,022
 
 
 
50,631
 
 
 
84,754
 

 Loss on Disposal / Write-off of Assets
  
 
22,460
 
 
 
7,064
 
 
 
10,646
 

 Lessor Construction Allowances
  
 
41,509
 
 
 
35,281
 
 
 
47,329
 

 Amortization of Deferred Lease Credits
  
 
(48,258
) 
 
 
(48,373
) 
 
 
(47,182
) 

 Deferred Taxes
  
 
(46,330
) 
 
 
(27,823
) 
 
 
7,605
 

 Share-Based Compensation
  
 
51,093
 
 
 
40,599
 
 
 
36,109
 

 Tax Benefit (Deficiency) from Share-Based Compensation
  
 
2,973
 
 
 
(1,053
) 
 
 
(5,454
) 

 Excess Tax Benefit from Share-Based Compensation
  
 
(4,821
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Auction Rate Securities Loss
  
 
13,442
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Changes in Assets and Liabilities:
  



 



 




 Inventories
  
 
(184,784
) 
 
 
(74,689
) 
 
 
62,720
 

 Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses
  
 
130,180
  
 
 
27,108
 
 
 
37,115
 

 Income Taxes
  
 
4,754
 
 
 
63,807
 
 
 
(7,386
) 

 Other Assets and Liabilities
  
 
(45,635
) 
 
 
(60,199
) 
 
 
(69,775
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES
  
 
365,219
 
 
 
391,789
 
 
 
395,487
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Capital Expenditures
  
 
(318,598
) 
 
 
(160,935
) 
 
 
(175,472
) 

 Purchase of Trust-Owned Life Insurance Policies
  
 
—
  
 
 
(16,583
) 
 
 
(13,539
) 

 Proceeds from Sales of Marketable Securities
  
 
2,650
 
 
 
84,542
 
 
 
77,450
 

 Other Investing
  
 
(24,741
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET CASH USED FOR INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  
 
(340,689
) 
 
 
(92,976
) 
 
 
(111,561
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Proceeds from Share-Based Compensation
  
 
46,530
 
 
 
13,941
 
 
 
2,048
 

 Excess Tax Benefit from Share Based Compensation
  
 
4,821
 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds from Borrowings under Credit Agreement
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
48,056
 

 Purchase of Common Stock
  
 
(196,605
) 
 
 
(76,158
) 
 
 
—
  

 Dividends Paid
  
 
(60,956
) 
 
 
(61,656
) 
 
 
(61,500
) 

 Repayment of Borrowings under Credit Agreement
  
 
(45,002
) 
 
 
(12,093
) 
 
 
(100,000
) 

 Change in Outstanding Checks and Other
  
 
(14,117
) 
 
 
(9,367
) 
 
 
(24,654
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET CASH USED FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  
 
(265,329
) 
 
 
(145,333
) 
 
 
(136,050
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATES ON CASH
  
 
(2,059
) 
 
 
2,923
 
 
 
3,402
 

 NET (DECREASE) INCREASE IN CASH AND EQUIVALENTS:
  
 
(242,858
) 
 
 
156,403
 
 
 
151,278
 

 Cash and Equivalents, Beginning of Period
  
 
826,353
 
 
 
669,950
 
 
 
518,672
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD
  
$
583,495
 
 
$
826,353
 
 
$
669,950
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 SIGNIFICANT NON-CASH INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Change in Accrual for Construction in Progress
  
$
23,040
 
 
$
18,741
 
 
$
(21,882
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  63 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   


1.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION 
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (“A&F”), through its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, A&F and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries are referred to as “Abercrombie & Fitch” or the “Company”), is a specialty retailer of high-quality, casual apparel for men, women and kids with an active, youthful lifestyle. 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the historical financial statements of, and transactions applicable to, the
Company and reflect its assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows.  On June 16, 2009, A&F’s Board
of Directors approved the closure of the Company’s 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of the RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations during the fourth
quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the results of operations of RUEHL are reflected in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax for all periods presented on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Results
from discontinued operations were immaterial for the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011.  FISCAL YEAR
 The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31, typically resulting in a fifty-two
week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a fifty-three week year. Fiscal years are designated in the consolidated financial statements and notes by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. All
references herein to “Fiscal 2011” represent the 52-week fiscal year ended January 28, 2012; to “Fiscal 2010” represent the 52-week fiscal year ended January 29, 2011; and to “Fiscal 2009” represent the
52-week fiscal year ended January 30, 2010. In addition, all references herein to “Fiscal 2012” represent the 53-week fiscal year that will end on February 2, 2013. 
RECLASSIFICATIONS  Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified or adjusted to conform to the current year presentation.   


2.
SEGMENT REPORTING  The
Company determines its segments on the same basis that it uses to evaluate performance. In connection with its international expansion, the way the Company allocates resources and assesses performance has changed. All of the Company’s segments
sell a similar group of products — casual sportswear apparel, personal care products and accessories for men, women and kids and bras, underwear and sleepwear for girls. The Company has three reportable segments; U.S. Stores, International
Stores, and Direct-to-Consumer. Corporate functions, interest income and expense, and other income and expense are evaluated on a consolidated basis and are not allocated to the Company’s segments and are included in Other. 
The U.S. Stores reportable segment includes the results of stores in the United States and Puerto Rico. The International Stores
reportable segment includes the results of stores in Canada, Europe and Asia. The Direct-to-Consumer reportable segment operating income is defined as income directly associated with the website operations, both domestic and international.

  64 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Operating income is the primary measure of profit the Company uses to make decisions on
allocating resources to its operating segments. For the U.S. Stores and International Stores reportable segments, operating income is defined as aggregate income directly attributable to individual stores on a four-wall basis. Four-wall costs
include all costs contained “within the four walls of the stores”. These include expenses such as cost of merchandise, selling payroll and related costs, rent, utilities, depreciation, other variable expenses such as repairs and
maintenance, supplies and packaging, as well as store sales related expenses including credit card and bank fees and taxes. Four-wall costs also reflect pre-opening charges related to stores not yet in operation. Four-wall costs exclude marketing,
general and administrative expense, store management, and support functions such as regional and district management and other functions not dedicated to an individual store, distribution center costs, and markdowns on merchandise held in
distribution centers, all of which are included in Other.  Reportable segment assets include those used directly in or
resulting from the operations of each reportable segment. Total assets for the U.S. Stores and International Stores reportable segments primarily consist of store cash, credit card receivables, prepaid rent, store supplies, lease deposits,
merchandise inventory and the net book value of store long-lived assets. International Stores also includes VAT receivables. Total assets for the Direct-to-Consumer reportable segment primarily consist of credit card receivables, merchandise
inventory, and the net book value of information technology and distribution center assets. Total assets for Other include cash and cash equivalents, investments, the net book value of corporate property and equipment, the net book value of
intangible assets, investments held in the Rabbi Trust for deferred Compensation plans, foreign currency hedge assets and tax-related assets.  The following table provides the Company’s segment information as of, and for, the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010: 
 




























 
 
U.S. Stores
 
 
InternationalStores
 
 
Direct-to-ConsumerOperations

 
 
SegmentTotal
 
 
Other(1)
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(In thousands):
 

 January 28, 2012 
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net Sales 
 
$
2,710,842
 
 
$
876,613
 
 
$
552,603
 
 
$
4,140,058
 
 
$
18,000 
  
 
$
4,158,058
 

 Depreciation and Amortization
 
 
125,827
 
 
 
35,844
 
 
 
2,876
 
 
 
164,547
 
 
 
68,409 
  
 
 
232,956
 

 Operating Income(2)
 
 
390,186
 
 
 
261,461
 
 
 
254,328
 
 
 
905,975
 
 
 
(715,945
)  
 
 
190,030
 

 Total Assets 
 
 
681,100
 
 
 
659,630
 
 
 
71,318
 
 
 
1,412,048
 
 
 
1,636,105 
  
 
 
3,048,153
 

 Capital Expenditures(3)
 
 
1,105
 
 
 
229,959
 
 
 
8,367
 
 
 
239,431
 
 
 
79,167 
  
 
 
318,598
 









 January 29, 2011 
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net Sales 
 
 
2,546,798
 
 
 
505,136
 
 
 
404,974
 
 
 
3,456,908
 
 
 
11,869 
  
 
 
3,468,777
 

 Depreciation and Amortization 
 
 
149,533
 
 
 
17,680
 
 
 
3,154
 
 
 
170,367
 
 
 
58,786 
  
 
 
229,153
 

 Operating Income(4)
 
 
460,233
 
 
 
173,391
 
 
 
214,909
 
 
 
848,533
 
 
 
(616,601
)  
 
 
231,932
 

 Total Assets 
 
 
835,597
 
 
 
368,299
 
 
 
41,160
 
 
 
1,245,056
 
 
 
1,696,359 
  
 
 
2,941,415
 

 Capital Expenditures(3)
 
 
24,706
 
 
 
85,435
 
 
 
816
 
 
 
110,957
 
 
 
49,978 
  
 
 
160,935
 









 January 30, 2010 
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net Sales 
 
 
2,377,771
 
 
 
256,216
 
 
 
290,102
 
 
 
2,924,089
 
 
 
4,537 
  
 
 
2,928,626
 

 Depreciation and Amortization 
 
 
175,286
 
 
 
8,388
 
 
 
3,750
 
 
 
187,424
 
 
 
51,328 
  
 
 
238,752
 

 Operating Income(5)
 
 
433,050
 
 
 
73,813
 
 
 
165,071
 
 
 
671,934
 
 
 
(554,022
)  
 
 
117,912
 

 Total Assets 
 
 
948,376
 
 
 
231,964
 
 
 
30,574
 
 
 
1,210,914
 
 
 
1,610,952 
  
 
 
2,821,866
 

 Capital Expenditures(3)
 
 
52,964
 
 
 
77,420
 
 
 
428
 
 
 
130,812
 
 
 
44,660 
  
 
 
175,472
 

  65 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
 


(1) 
 Includes corporate functions such as Design, Merchandising, Sourcing, Planning and Allocation, Store Management and Support, Marketing, Distribution
Center Operations, Information Technology, Real Estate and other governance functions such as Finance, Legal and Human Resources and other corporate overhead. Sales are related to third-party sell-off of inventory. Operating Income for Other
includes marketing, general and administrative expense; store management and support functions such as regional and district management and other functions not dedicated to an individual store; distribution center costs; and markdowns on merchandise
held in distribution centers.   


(2) 
 Includes charges for asset impairments and write-down of store-related long-lived assets of $52.1 million and $15.9 million for U.S. Stores and
International Stores, respectively.   


(3) 
 Reportable segment capital expenditures are direct purchases of property and equipment for that segment. 
 


(4) 
 Includes charges for asset impairments and write-down of store-related long-lived assets of $50.6 million and $0.0 million for U.S. Stores and
International Stores, respectively.   


(5) 
 Includes charges for asset impairments of $33.2 million and $0.0 million for U.S. Stores and International Stores, respectively.
 Geographic Information 
Financial information relating to the Company’s operations by geographic area is as follows: 
Net Sales:  Net
sales includes net merchandise sales through stores and direct-to-consumer operations, including shipping and handling revenue. Net sales are reported by geographic area based on the location of the customer. 
 
















 
  
Fifty-Two Weeks Ended
 

 
  
January 28, 2012
 
  
January 29, 2011
 
  
January 30, 2010
 

 
  
(in thousands):
 

 United States
  
$
3,108,380
 
  
$
2,821,993
 
  
$
2,567,141
 

 Europe
  
 
822,473
 
  
 
443,836
 
  
 
229,446
 

 Other International
  
 
227,205
 
  
 
202,948
 
  
 
132,039
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,158,058
 
  
$
3,468,777
 
  
$
2,928,626
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Long-Lived Assets:   












 
  
January 28, 2012
 
  
January 29, 2011
 

 
  
(in thousands):
 

 United States
  
$
794,723
 
  
$
959,777
 

 Europe
  
 
366,647
 
  
 
169,313
 

 Other International
  
 
156,361
 
  
 
127,741
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,317,731
 
  
$
1,256,831
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Long-lived assets included in the table above include primarily property and equipment (net), store
supplies and lease deposits. 
  66 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION  The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of A&F and its subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  CASH AND EQUIVALENTS  See Note 5, “Cash and
Equivalents.”  INVESTMENTS  See Note 6, “Investments.”  RECEIVABLES
 Receivables primarily include credit card receivables, construction allowances, value added tax (“VAT”)
receivables and other tax credits or refunds.  As part of the normal course of business, the Company has approximately three to
four days of sales transactions outstanding with its third-party credit card vendors at any point. The Company classifies these outstanding balances as credit card receivables. Construction allowances are recorded for certain store lease agreements
for improvements completed by the Company. VAT receivables are payments the Company has made on purchases of goods and services that will be recovered as sales are made to customers. 
INVENTORIES  Inventories are principally valued at the lower of average cost or market utilizing the retail method. The Company determines market value as the anticipated future selling price of merchandise less a
normal margin. An initial markup is applied to inventory at cost in order to establish a cost-to-retail ratio. Permanent markdowns, when taken, reduce both the retail and cost components of inventory on hand so as to maintain the already established
cost-to-retail relationship. In addition to markdowns already recognized, the Company reduces inventory value by recording a valuation reserve that represents the estimated future anticipated selling price decreases necessary. The valuation reserve
can fluctuate depending on the timing of markdowns previously recognized. The valuation reserve was $72.3 million, $24.4 million and $11.4 million at January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, respectively.
 Additionally, as part of inventory valuation, inventory shrinkage estimates based on historical trends from actual physical
inventories are made each period that reduce the inventory value for lost or stolen items. The Company performs physical inventories on a periodic basis and adjusts the shrink reserve accordingly. The shrink reserve was $9.3 million, $7.6 million
and $8.1 million at January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, respectively.  Ending
inventory balances were $569.8 million, $385.9 million and $310.6 million at January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, respectively. These balances included inventory in transit balances of $103.1 million, $55.0
million and $39.9 million at January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, respectively. Inventory in transit is considered to be merchandise owned by the Company that has not yet been received at the Company’s
distribution centers. 
  67 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 
Other current assets include prepaid rent, current store supplies, derivative contracts and other prepaids. 
STORE SUPPLIES  Store supplies include in-store supplies and packaging, as well as replenishment inventory held on the Company’s behalf by a third party. The initial inventory of supplies for new stores including,
but not limited to, hangers, frames, security tags and point-of-sale supplies are capitalized at the store opening date. In lieu of amortizing the initial balances over their estimated useful lives, the Company expenses all subsequent replacements
and adjusts the initial balance, as appropriate, for changes in store quantities or replacement cost. The Company believes this policy approximates the expense that would have been recognized under accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America (“GAAP”). Packaging and consumable store supplies are expensed as used. Current store supplies, including packaging and consumable store supplies held at a third-party replenishment center, were $17.8 million and
$20.6 million at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, and were classified as Other Current Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Non-current store supplies were $32.0 million and $32.3 million at January 28, 2012
and January 29, 2011, respectively, and were classified as Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT  Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment are computed for financial reporting purposes on a straight-line basis, using service lives ranging principally: 30 years for buildings; from three
to 15 years for leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures; from three to seven years for information technology; and from three to 20 years for other property and equipment. The cost of assets sold or retired and the related accumulated
depreciation or amortization are removed from the accounts with any resulting gain or loss included in net income. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Major remodels and improvements that extend service lives of the assets
are capitalized.  Long-lived assets, primarily comprised of property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. The primary triggering events are (1) when the Company believes that it is more likely than not that long-lived assets will be disposed of before the end of their
previously estimated useful life (e.g. store closures before the end of a lease) and (2) if the Company’s performance in any quarter indicates that there has been a long-term and significant change in the economics of the business. The
Company reviews long-lived assets for impairments in the quarter in which a triggering event occurs.  In addition, the Company
conducts an annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of each year. For the purposes of the annual review, the Company reviews long-lived assets associated with stores that have an operating loss in the current year and have been open for at
least two full years.  The reviews are conducted at the individual store level, which is the lowest level for which
identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets and liabilities. 
  68 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

The impairment evaluation is performed as a two-step test. First, the Company utilizes an undiscounted future cash flow model to test the individual asset groups for recoverability. If the net
carrying value of the asset group exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the Company proceeds to step two. Under step two, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of net book value over the fair value of the assets. Factors used in the
evaluation include, but are not limited to, management’s plans for future operations, recent operating results and projected cash flows. See Note 8, “Property and Equipment, Net,” for further discussion. 
The Company expenses all internal-use software costs incurred in the preliminary project stage and capitalizes certain direct costs
associated with the development and purchase of internal-use software within property and equipment. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the software, generally not exceeding seven years.
 INCOME TAXES  Income taxes are calculated using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using current enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which those temporary differences are expected to reverse. Inherent in the measurement
of deferred balances are certain judgments and interpretations of enacted tax law and published guidance with respect to applicability to the Company’s operations. A valuation allowance is established against deferred tax assets when it is more
likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Currently, there is a valuation allowance provided for foreign net operating losses.  The effective tax rate utilized by the Company reflects management’s judgment of expected tax liabilities within the various tax jurisdictions. The Company records tax expense or benefit that does
not relate to ordinary income in the current fiscal year discretely in the period in which it occurs. Examples of such types of discrete items include, but are not limited to; changes in estimates of the outcome of tax matters related to prior
years; provision-to-return adjustments; tax-exempt income; and the settlement of tax audits.  See Note 14, “Income
Taxes,” for a discussion regarding the Company’s policies for uncertain tax positions.  FOREIGN CURRENCY
TRANSLATION AND TRANSACTIONS  The majority of the Company’s international operations use local currencies as the
functional currency. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars (the reporting currency) at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Equity accounts denominated in foreign currencies
were translated into U.S. dollars at historical exchange rates. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars at the monthly average exchange rate for the period. Gains and losses resulting from foreign
currency transactions are included in the results of operations; whereas, translation adjustments and inter-company loans of a long-term investment nature are reported as an element of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Foreign currency transactions
resulted in a gain of $0.5 million for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012, a loss of $3.3 million for the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011, and was immaterial for the fifty-two weeks ended January 30, 2010. 
  69 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
DERIVATIVES 
See Note 16, “Derivatives.”  CONTINGENCIES  In the normal course of business, the Company must
make estimates of potential future legal obligations and liabilities, which requires the use of management’s judgment on the outcome of various issues. Management may also use outside legal advice to assist in the estimating process. However,
the ultimate outcome of various legal issues could be different than management estimates, and adjustments may be required. See Note 19, “Contingencies,” for further discussion. 
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  At January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, there were 150.0 million shares of A&F’s Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value, authorized, of which 85.6 million and
87.2 million shares were outstanding at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, and 106.4 million shares of Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value, authorized, none of which were outstanding at January 28, 2012
and January 29, 2011. In addition, 15.0 million shares of A&F’s Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value, were authorized, none of which have been issued. See Note 22, “Preferred Stock Purchase Rights” for information
about Preferred Stock Purchase Rights.  Holders of Class A Common Stock generally have identical rights to holders of
Class B Common Stock, except holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share while holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to three votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. 
REVENUE RECOGNITION  The Company recognizes store sales at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise. Direct-to-consumer sales are recorded based on an estimated date for customer receipt of merchandise, which
is based on shipping terms and historical delivery terms. Amounts relating to shipping and handling billed to customers in a sale transaction are classified as revenue and the related direct shipping and handling costs are classified as Stores and
Distribution Expense. Associate discounts are classified as a reduction of net sales. The Company reserves for sales returns through estimates based on historical experience. The sales return reserve was $7.0 million, $10.3 million and $7.4 million
at January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, respectively.  The Company sells gift cards in
its stores and through direct-to-consumer operations. The Company accounts for gift cards sold to customers by recognizing a liability at the time of sale. Gift cards sold to customers do not expire or lose value over periods of inactivity. The
liability remains on the Company’s books until the Company recognizes income from gift cards. Income on gift cards is recognized at the earlier of redemption by the customer (recognized as revenue) or when the Company determines that the
likelihood of redemption is remote, referred to as “gift card breakage” (recognized as other operating income). The Company determines the probability of the gift card being redeemed to be remote based on historical redemption patterns. At
January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, the gift card liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets were $47.7 million and $47.1 million, respectively. 
  70 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The Company is not required by law to escheat the value of unredeemed gift cards to the
states in which it operates. During Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, the Company recognized other operating income for gift card breakage of $7.2 million, $7.8 million and $9.0 million, respectively. 
The Company does not include tax amounts collected as part of the sales transaction in its net sales results. 
COST OF GOODS SOLD  Cost of goods sold is primarily comprised of: cost incurred to produce inventory for sale, including product costs, freight, import cost, as well as changes in reserves for shrink and valuation reserves.
Gains and losses associated with foreign currency exchange contracts related to hedging of inventory purchases are also recognized in cost of goods sold when the inventory being hedged is sold. 
STORES AND DISTRIBUTION EXPENSE  Stores and distribution expense includes store payroll, store management, rent, utilities and other landlord expenses, depreciation and amortization, repairs and maintenance and other store support
functions, as well as Direct-to-Consumer expense and Distribution Center (“DC”) expense.  Shipping and handling
costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare products for shipment, and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct-to-consumer operations were $53.6 million, $38.9 million and $30.7 million
for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $62.8 million, $42.8 million and $34.1 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010
and Fiscal 2009, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Costs incurred to physically move the product to the stores is recorded in Cost of Goods Sold in our
Consolidated Statement of Operations.  MARKETING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE 
Marketing, general and administrative expense includes photography and media ads; store marketing; home office compensation, except for
those departments included in stores and distribution expense; information technology; outside services such as legal and consulting; relocation; recruiting; samples and travel expenses. 
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE (INCOME), NET  Other operating expense (income) consists primarily of the following: income related to gift card balances whose likelihood of redemption has been determined to be remote; gains and losses on foreign
currency transactions; and the net impact of the change in valuation related to other-than-temporary impairments associated with ARS. See Note 6, “Investments.” 
WEBSITE AND ADVERTISING COSTS  Website and advertising costs are expensed as incurred as a component of Stores and Distribution Expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. 
  71 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
LEASES 
The Company leases property for its stores under operating leases. Lease agreements may contain construction allowances, rent escalation
clauses and/or contingent rent provisions.  For construction allowances, the Company records a deferred lease credit on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortizes the deferred lease credit as a reduction of rent expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income over the terms of the leases. 
For scheduled rent escalation clauses during the lease terms, the Company records minimum rental expense on a straight-line basis over the
terms of the leases on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. The difference between the rent expense and the amount payable under the lease is included in Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The term of the lease over which the Company amortizes construction allowances and minimum rental expenses on a straight-line basis begins on the date of initial possession, which is generally when the Company enters the space and
begins construction.  Certain leases provide for contingent rents, which are determined as a percentage of gross sales. The
Company records a contingent rent liability in accrued expenses on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the corresponding rent expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income when management determines that achieving
the specified levels during the fiscal year is probable. In addition, most of the leases require payment of real estate taxes, insurance and certain common area maintenance costs in addition to the future minimum lease payments. 
In certain lease arrangements, the Company is involved with the construction of the building. If the Company determines that it has
substantially all of the risks of ownership during construction of the leased property and therefore is deemed to be the owner of the construction project, the Company records an asset and related financing obligation for the amount of the total
project costs and an amount related to the pre-existing, leased building, which is included in Property and Equipment, Net and Long-Term Debt, respectively, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Once construction is complete, the Company determines if
the asset qualifies for sale-leaseback accounting treatment. If the arrangement does not qualify for sale-lease back treatment, the Company continues to amortize the obligation over the lease term and depreciates the asset over its useful life. The
Company does not report rent expense for the portion of the rent payment determined to be related to the properties which are owned for accounting purposes. Rather, this portion of the rental payments under the lease are recognized as a reduction of
the financing obligation and interest expense.  The Company recorded a cumulative correction during the fourth quarter of
Fiscal 2011 relating to four specific leasing transactions to recognize approximately $33 million of long-lived assets and a corresponding financing obligation in long-term debt. In connection with the cumulative correction during the fourth quarter
of Fiscal 2011, the Company reversed $1.2 million of previously recognized expense, primarily rent expense, of which $1.1 million related to reversal of expense recognized during the first three quarters of the current fiscal year. The Company does
not believe the correction was material to any current or prior interim or annual periods that were affected.  STORE
PRE-OPENING EXPENSES  Pre-opening expenses related to new store openings are charged to operations as incurred.

  72 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS 
Costs to design and develop the Company’s merchandise are expensed as incurred and are reflected as a component of “Marketing,
General and Administrative Expense.”  NET INCOME PER SHARE 
Net income per basic share is computed based on the weighted-average number of outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock
(“Common Stock”). Net income per diluted share includes the weighted-average effect of dilutive stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units.  Weighted-Average Shares Outstanding and Anti-Dilutive Shares (in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Shares of Common Stock issued
  
 
103,300
  
 
 
103,300
  
 
 
103,300
  

 Treasury shares
  
 
(16,452
) 
 
 
(15,239
) 
 
 
(15,426
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-Average — basic shares
  
 
86,848
  
 
 
88,061
  
 
 
87,874
  

 Dilutive effect of stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units
  
 
2,689
  
 
 
1,790
  
 
 
735
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-Average — diluted shares
  
 
89,537
  
 
 
89,851
  
 
 
88,609
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Anti-Dilutive shares
  
 
2,452
(1) 
 
 
6,019
(1) 
 
 
6,698
(1) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Reflects the number of stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units outstanding, but excluded from the computation of net income
per diluted share because the impact would be anti-dilutive.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
 See Note 4, “Share-Based Compensation.” 
USE OF ESTIMATES IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Since actual results may differ from those estimates, the Company revises its
estimates and assumptions as new information becomes available.   


4.
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
Financial Statement Impact  The Company recognized share-based compensation expense of $51.1 million, $40.6 million and $36.1 million for the fifty-two week periods ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and
January 30, 
  73 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

2010, respectively. The Company also recognized $19.2 million, $14.7 million and $12.8 million in tax benefits related to share-based compensation for the fifty-two week periods ended
January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, respectively.  The fair value of share-based
compensation awards is recognized as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the awards’ requisite service period, net of forfeitures. For awards that are expected to result in a tax deduction, a deferred tax asset is recorded in the
period in which share-based compensation expense is recognized. A current tax deduction arises upon the vesting of restricted stock units or the exercise of stock options and stock appreciation rights and is principally measured at the award’s
intrinsic value. If the tax deduction is greater than the recorded deferred tax asset, the tax benefit associated with any excess deduction is considered a “windfall tax benefit” and is recognized as additional paid-in capital. If the tax
deduction is less than the recorded deferred tax asset, the resulting difference, or shortfall, is first charged to additional paid-in capital, to the extent of the pool of “windfall tax benefits,” with any remainder recognized as tax
expense. The Company’s pool of “windfall tax benefits” as of January 28, 2012, is sufficient to fully absorb any shortfall which may develop associated with awards currently outstanding. 
Share-based compensation expense is recognized, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period on a straight-line basis.
The Company adjusts share-based compensation expense on a quarterly basis for actual forfeitures and for changes to the estimate of expected award forfeitures based on actual forfeiture experience. The effect of adjusting the forfeiture rate is
recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. The effect of adjustments for forfeitures during the fifty-two week period ended January 28, 2012 was $1.6 million. The effect of adjustments for forfeitures during the fifty-two week
period ended January 29, 2011 was $4.5 million.  A&F issues shares of Common Stock for stock option and stock
appreciation right exercises and restricted stock unit vestings from treasury stock. As of January 28, 2012, A&F had sufficient treasury stock available to settle stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units
outstanding without having to repurchase additional shares of Common Stock. Settlement of stock awards in Common Stock also requires that the Company has sufficient shares available in stockholder-approved plans at the applicable time. 
In the event, at each reporting date during which share-based compensation awards remain outstanding, there are not sufficient shares of
Common Stock available to be issued under the 2007 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2007 LTIP”), or under a successor or replacement plan, the Company may be required to designate some portion of the outstanding awards
to be settled in cash, which would result in liability classification of such awards. The fair value of liability-classified awards is re-measured each reporting date until such awards no longer remain outstanding or until sufficient shares of
Common Stock become available to be issued under the 2007 LTIP, or under a successor or replacement plan. As long as the awards are required to be classified as a liability, the change in fair value would be recognized in current period expense
based on the requisite service period rendered.  Plans 
As of January 28, 2012, A&F had two primary share-based compensation plans: the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2005
LTIP”), under which A&F grants stock options, stock appreciation rights and 
  74 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

restricted stock units to associates of the Company and non-associate members of the A&F Board of Directors, and the 2007 LTIP, under which A&F grants stock options, stock appreciation
rights and restricted stock units to associates of the Company. A&F also has four other share-based compensation plans under which it granted stock options and restricted stock units to associates of the Company and non-associate members of the
A&F Board of Directors in prior years.  The 2007 LTIP, a stockholder-approved plan, permits A&F to annually grant
awards covering up to 2.0 million of underlying shares of A&F’s Common Stock for each type of award, per eligible participant, plus any unused annual limit from prior years. The 2005 LTIP, a stockholder-approved plan, permits A&F
to annually grant awards covering up to 250,000 of underlying shares of A&F’s Common Stock for each award type to any associate of the Company (other than the CEO) who is subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, at the time of the grant, plus any unused annual limit from prior years. In addition, any non-associate director of A&F is eligible to receive awards under the 2005 LTIP. Under both plans, stock options, stock appreciation rights and
restricted stock units vest primarily over four years for associates. Under the 2005 LTIP, restricted stock units typically vest after approximately one year for non-associate directors of A&F. Awards granted to the CEO have a vesting period
defined as the shorter of four years or the period from the award date through the end of the employment agreement. Under both plans, stock options have a ten-year term and stock appreciation rights have up to a ten-year term, subject to forfeiture
under the terms of the plans. The plans provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change of control as defined in the plans.  Fair Value Estimates  The Company estimates the fair value of stock
options and stock appreciation rights granted using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires the Company to estimate the expected term of the stock options and stock appreciation rights and expected future stock price volatility over
the expected term. Estimates of expected terms, which represent the expected periods of time the Company believes stock options and stock appreciation rights will be outstanding, are based on historical experience. Estimates of expected future stock
price volatility are based on the volatility of A&F’s Common Stock price for the most recent historical period equal to the expected term of the stock option or stock appreciation right, as appropriate. The Company calculates the volatility
as the annualized standard deviation of the differences in the natural logarithms of the weekly stock closing price, adjusted for stock splits and dividends.  In the case of restricted stock units, the Company calculates the fair value of the restricted stock units granted using the market price of the underlying Common Stock on the date of grant adjusted for
anticipated dividend payments during the vesting period. 
  75 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Stock Options 
The Company did not grant any stock options during the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 or January 29, 2011. The
weighted-average estimated fair value of stock options granted during the fifty-two weeks ended January 30, 2010, and the weighted-average assumptions used in calculating such fair value, on the date of grant, were as follows: 
 








 
  
Fiscal 
Year2009
 

 
  

 Grant date market price
  
$
22.87
 

 Exercise price
  
$
22.87
 

 Fair value
  
$
8.26
 

 Assumptions:
  




 Price volatility
  
 
50
% 

 Expected term (Years)
  
 
4.1
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
1.60
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
1.70
% 
 Below is a summary of stock option activity for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012:
  




















 Stock Options
 
Number ofUnderlyingShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 
 
AggregateIntrinsic Value
 
 
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual Life
 

 Outstanding at January 29, 2011
 
 
2,316,648
 
 
$
39.51
 
 



 




 Granted
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 



 




 Exercised
 
 
(1,573,351
) 
 
 
29.62
 
 



 




 Forfeited or cancelled
 
 
(28,300
) 
 
 
53.96
 
 



 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 




 Outstanding at January 28, 2012
 
 
714,997
 
 
$
60.72
 
 
$
3,958,608
 
 
 
4.7
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stock options exercisable at January 28, 2012
 
 
639,447
 
 
$
60.16
 
 
$
3,508,038
 
 
 
4.6
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stock options expected to become exercisable in the future as of January 28, 2012
 
 
74,320
 
 
$
65.79
 
 
$
430,461
 
 
 
6.3
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The total intrinsic value of stock options which were exercised during the fifty-two weeks ended
January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 was $48.5 million, $10.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively.  The grant date fair value of stock options which vested during the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 was $2.4 million, $4.0 million and $5.0
million, respectively.  As of January 28, 2012, there was $0.2 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of
estimated forfeitures, related to stock options. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.3 years. 
  76 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Stock Appreciation Rights 
The weighted-average estimated fair value of stock appreciation rights granted during the fifty-two weeks ended January 28,
2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, and the weighted-average assumptions used in calculating such fair value, on the date of grant, were as follows: 
 








































 
  
Fiscal Year
 

 
  
Chairman and Chief ExecutiveOfficer
 
 
Other Executive Officers
 
 
All Other Associates
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Grant date market price
  
$
56.86
 
 
$
44.86
 
 
$
28.42
 
 
$
54.87
 
 
$
44.86
 
 
$
25.77
 
 
$
55.12
 
 
$
44.32
 
 
$
26.43
 

 Exercise price
  
$
56.86
 
 
$
44.86
 
 
$
32.99
 
 
$
54.87
 
 
$
44.86
 
 
$
25.77
 
 
$
55.12
 
 
$
44.32
 
 
$
26.43
 

 Fair value
  
$
22.99
 
 
$
16.96
 
 
$
9.67
 
 
$
22.29
 
 
$
16.99
 
 
$
10.06
 
 
$
21.98
 
 
$
16.51
 
 
$
10.00
 

 Assumptions:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Price volatility
  
 
53
% 
 
 
50
% 
 
 
47
% 
 
 
53
% 
 
 
51
% 
 
 
52
% 
 
 
55
% 
 
 
53
% 
 
 
53
% 

 Expected term (Years)
  
 
4.6
 
 
 
4.7
 
 
 
5.6
 
 
 
4.7
 
 
 
4.5
 
 
 
4.5
 
 
 
4.1
 
 
 
4.1
 
 
 
4.1
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
1.8
% 
 
 
2.3
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.0
% 
 
 
2.3
% 
 
 
1.6
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
2.0
% 
 
 
1.6
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
1.5
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
2.4
% 
 
 
1.6
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
1.6
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 Below is a summary of stock appreciation rights activity for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28,
2012:   




















 Stock Appreciation Rights
 
Number ofUnderlyingShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 
 
AggregateIntrinsic Value
 
 
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual Life
 

 Outstanding at January 29, 2011
 
 
7,136,189
 
 
$
34.08
 
 



 




 Granted:
 



 



 



 




 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
1,879,195
 
 
 
56.86
 
 



 




 Other Executive Officers
 
 
217,000
 
 
 
54.87
 
 



 




 All Other Associates
 
 
156,700
 
 
 
54.93
 
 



 




 Exercised
 
 
(290,375
) 
 
 
32.98
 
 



 




 Forfeited or cancelled
 
 
(59,375
) 
 
 
41.24
 
 



 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 




 Outstanding at January 28, 2012
 
 
9,039,334
 
 
$
39.66
 
 
$
91,273,761
 
 
 
5.2
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stock appreciation rights exercisable at January 28, 2012
 
 
857,232
 
 
$
36.89
 
 
$
8,863,886
 
 
 
5.2
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stock appreciation rights expected to become exercisable in the future as of January 28, 2012
 
 
8,098,051
 
 
$
39.90
 
 
$
82,011,681
 
 
 
5.2
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The total intrinsic value of stock appreciation rights exercised during the fifty-two weeks ended
January 28, 2012 was $11.0 million. The total intrinsic value of stock appreciation rights exercised during the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011 was $1.8 million. 
  77 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The grant date fair value of stock appreciation rights which vested during the fifty-two
weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 was $11.3 million and $5.0 million, respectively.  As of
January 28, 2012, there was $72.5 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to stock appreciation rights. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of 1.0 years.  Restricted Stock Units 
Below is a summary of restricted stock unit activity for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012: 
 












 Restricted Stock Units
  
Number of 
UnderlyingShares
 
 
Weighted-Average GrantDate Fair
Value
 

 Non-vested at January 29, 2011
  
 
1,147,754
 
 
$
49.59
 

 Granted
  
 
573,450
 
 
 
54.44
 

 Vested
  
 
(410,540
) 
 
 
59.31
 

 Forfeited
  
 
(121,372
) 
 
 
43.90
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-vested at January 28, 2012
  
 
1,189,292
 
 
$
49.11
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The total fair value of restricted stock units granted during the fifty-two weeks ended January 28,
2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 was $31.2 million, $17.9 million and $11.5 million, respectively. 
The total grant date fair value of restricted stock units and restricted shares which vested during the fifty-two weeks ended
January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 was $24.3 million, $24.3 million and $26.4 million, respectively.  As of January 28, 2012, there was $34.5 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to non-vested restricted stock units. The unrecognized compensation cost
is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.0 year.  5.    CASH AND EQUIVALENTS 
Cash and equivalents consisted of (in thousands):   












 
  
January 28, 2012
 
  
January 29, 2011
 

 Cash and equivalents:
  



  




 Cash
  
$
374,479
 
  
$
300,624
 

 Cash equivalents
  
 
209,016
 
  
 
525,729
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cash and equivalents
  
$
583,495
 
  
$
826,353
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Cash and equivalents include amounts on deposit with financial institutions, United States treasury bills,
and other investments, primarily held in money market accounts, with original maturities of less than three months. Any cash that is legally restricted from use is recorded in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The restricted cash
balance was $30.0 million on January 28, 2012 and $26.3 million on 
  78 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

January 29, 2011, respectively. Restricted cash includes various cash deposits with international banks that are used as collateralization for customary non-debt banking commitments and
deposits into trust accounts to conform with standard insurance security requirements.  6.    INVESTMENTS
 Investments consisted of (in thousands):   












 
  
January 28, 2012
 
  
January 29, 2011
 

 Marketable securities: 
  



  




 Available-for-sale securities: 
  



  




 Auction rate securities — student loan backed 
  
$
84,650
 
  
$
85,732
 

 Auction rate securities — municipal authority bonds 
  
 
14,858
 
  
 
14,802
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities 
  
 
99,508
 
  
 
100,534
 

 Rabbi Trust assets:(1)
  



  




 Money market funds 
  
 
23
 
  
 
343
 

 Municipal notes and bonds 
  
 
—
  
  
 
11,870
 

 Trust-owned life insurance policies (at cash surrender value) 
  
 
85,126
 
  
 
70,288
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Rabbi Trust assets 
  
 
85,149
 
  
 
82,501
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Investments 
  
$
184,657
 
  
$
183,035
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Rabbi Trust assets are included in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are restricted as to their use. 
At January 28, 2012, the Company’s investment grade ARS consisted of insured student loan backed securities and municipal
authority bonds, with maturities ranging from 16 to 31 years. Each investment in student loans is insured by (1) the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, (2) a private insurer or (3) a combination of both.
The percentage of insurance coverage of the outstanding principal and interest of the ARS varies by security.  The par and
carrying values, and related cumulative other-than-temporary impairment charges for the Company’s available-for-sale marketable securities as of January 28, 2012 were as follows: 
 
















 
  
Par Value
 
  
Other-than-TemporaryImpairment
 
 
CarryingValue
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Available-for-sale securities:
  



  



 




 Auction rate securities — student loan backed
  
$
92,975
 
  
$
(8,325
) 
 
$
84,650
 

 Auction rate securities — municipal authority bonds
  
 
19,975
 
  
 
(5,117
) 
 
 
14,858
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total available-for-sale securities
  
$
112,950
 
  
$
(13,442
) 
 
$
99,508
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 See Note 7, “Fair Value,” for further discussion on the valuation of the ARS. 
  79 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
An impairment is considered to be other-than-temporary if an entity (i) intends to
sell the security, (ii) more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovering its amortized cost basis, or (iii) does not expect to recover the security’s entire amortized cost basis, even if there is no intent
to sell the security. During the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012, the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS, resulting in recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment of $13.4 million recorded in other expense.
 The irrevocable rabbi trust (the “Rabbi Trust”) is intended to be used as a source of funds to match respective
funding obligations to participants in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan I, the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan II and the Chief
Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. The Rabbi Trust assets are consolidated and recorded at fair value, with the exception of the trust-owned life insurance policies which are recorded at cash surrender value. The Rabbi Trust
assets are included in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are restricted as to their use as noted above. During the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012, the Company sold $11.6 million of municipal notes and bonds at an
immaterial realized loss. The proceeds from the sale of the municipal notes and bonds, along with money market funds on hand, were used to purchase an additional $12.3 million in insurance policies. The change in cash surrender value of the
trust-owned life insurance policies held in the Rabbi Trust resulted in realized gains of $2.5 million and $2.3 million for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, recorded as part of Interest
Expense, Net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income.   


7.
FAIR VALUE  Fair value is
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The inputs used to measure fair value are prioritized based on a three-level hierarchy.
The three levels of inputs to measure fair value are as follows:   


 
•
 
 Level 1 — inputs are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities that are available in active markets.
  


 
•
 
 Level 2 — inputs are other than quoted market prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities, directly or
indirectly.   


 
•
 
 Level 3 — inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable. 
  80 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The lowest level of significant input determines the placement of the entire fair value
measurement in the hierarchy. The three levels of the hierarchy and the distribution of the Company’s assets and liabilities, measured at fair value, within it were as follows: 
 




















 
  
Assets and Liabilities at Fair Value as of January 28, 
2012
 

 
  
    Level 1    
 
  
    Level 2    
 
  
    Level 3
 
  
    Total    
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 ASSETS:
  



  



  



  




 Money market funds(1)
  
$
209,041
 
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
209,041
 

 ARS — available-for-sale — student loan backed 
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
84,650
 
  
 
84,650
 

 ARS — available-for-sale — municipal authority bonds 
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
14,858
 
  
 
14,858
 

 Derivative financial instruments 
  
 
—
  
  
 
10,770
 
  
 
—
  
  
 
10,770
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets measured at fair value 
  
$
209,041
 
  
$
10,770
 
  
$
99,508
 
  
$
319,319
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES: 
  



  



  



  




 Derivative financial instruments 
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,458
 
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,458
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities measured at fair value 
  
$
—
  
  
$
1,458
 
  
$
—
  
  
$
1,458
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 Includes $209.0
million of money market funds included in Cash and Equivalents. Amounts held in the Rabbi trust were immaterial.  The level 2 assets and liabilities consist of derivative financial instruments, primarily forward foreign exchange contracts. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined by using
quoted market prices of the same or similar instruments, adjusted for counterparty risk.  The level 3 assets include
available-for-sale investments in insured student loan backed ARS and insured municipal authority bond ARS.  The Company
measures the fair value of its ARS primarily using a discounted cash flow model, as well as a comparison to similar securities in the market. Certain significant inputs into the model are unobservable in the market including the periodic coupon
rate, market rate of return and expected term.  As of January 28, 2012, approximately 46% of the Company’s ARS were
“AAA” rated, approximately 16% were “AA” rated, and approximately 38% were “A-” rated, in each case as rated by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. 
  81 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The table below includes a roll-forward of the Company’s level 3 assets and
liabilities from January 29, 2011 to January 28, 2012. When a determination is made to classify an asset or liability within level 3, the determination is based upon the lack of significance of the observable parameters to the overall fair
value measurement. However, the fair value determination for level 3 financial assets and liabilities may include observable components.   
















 
  
Available-for-saleARS 
- Student Loans
 
 
Available-for-saleARS - Muni Bonds
 
 
Total
 

  
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Fair value, January 29, 2011
  
$
85,732
 
 
$
14,802
 
 
$
100,534
 

 Redemptions
  
 
(2,650
) 
 



 
 
(2,650
) 

 Gains and (losses), net:
  



 



 




 Reported in Net Income
  
 
(8,325
) 
 
 
(5,117
) 
 
 
(13,442
) 

 Reported in Other Comprehensive Income
  
 
9,893
 
 
 
5,173
 
 
 
15,066
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value, January 28, 2012
  
$
84,650
 
 
$
14,858
 
 
$
99,508
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


8.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET  Property and equipment, net, consisted of (in thousands):   












  
  
January 28, 2012
 
 
January 29, 2011
 

 Land
  
$
36,890
 
 
$
36,885
 

 Buildings
  
 
267,566
 
 
 
223,520
 

 Furniture, fixtures and equipment
  
 
614,641
 
 
 
602,885
 

 Information technology
  
 
237,245
 
 
 
233,867
 

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
1,340,487
 
 
 
1,247,493
 

 Construction in progress
  
 
113,663
 
 
 
69,577
 

 Other
  
 
44,727
 
 
 
47,006
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,655,219
 
 
$
2,461,233
 

 Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
(1,457,948
) 
 
 
(1,306,474
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
$
1,197,271
 
 
$
1,154,759
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Long-lived assets, primarily comprised of property and equipment, are reviewed periodically for impairment
or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Factors used in the evaluation include, but are not limited to, management’s plans for future operations, recent operating
results, and projected cash flows.  In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011, as a result of the fiscal year-end review of
long-lived store-related assets, the Company incurred store-related asset impairment charges of $68.0 million, included in Stores and Distribution Expense on the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the fifty-two weeks
ended January 28, 2012. The asset impairment charge was related to 14 Abercrombie & Fitch, 21 abercrombie kids, 42 Hollister, and two Gilly Hicks stores. 
  82 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2010, as a result of a strategic review of
under-performing stores, the Company determined that a number of stores were likely to be closed prior to lease expiration, which caused a triggering event requiring the Company to evaluate the related long-lived assets for impairment. Associated
with these expected closures, the Company incurred a non-cash, pre-tax asset impairment charge of $2.2 million, included in Stores and Distribution Expense on the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the fifty-two weeks
ended January 29, 2011. The charge was associated with one Abercrombie & Fitch, one abercrombie kids and three Hollister stores.  In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010, as a result of the fiscal year-end review of long-lived store-related assets, the Company incurred store-related asset impairment charges of $48.4 million, included
in Stores and Distribution Expense on the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011. The asset impairment charge was primarily related to 13 Gilly Hicks stores constructed using
the original large format store of approximately 10,000 gross square feet which has been revised to a smaller format of 5,000 gross square feet for new stores. The charge also included one Abercrombie & Fitch, one abercrombie kids and six
Hollister stores.  Store-related assets are considered level 3 assets in the fair value hierarchy and the fair values were
determined at the store level, primarily using a discounted cash flow model. The estimation of future cash flows from operating activities requires significant estimates of factors that include future sales, gross margin performance and operating
expenses. In instances where the discounted cash flow analysis indicated a negative value at the store level, the market exit price based on historical experience was used to determine the fair value by asset type. Included in property and
equipment, net, are store-related assets previously impaired and measured at a fair value of $13.1 million and $14.6 million, net of accumulated depreciation, as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. 
In certain lease arrangements, the Company is involved with the construction of the building. If the Company determines that it has
substantially all of the risks of ownership during construction of the leased property and therefore is deemed to be the owner of the construction project, the Company records an amount for the total project costs and an amount related to the
pre-existing, leased building, which is included in Property and Equipment, Net and Long-Term Debt, respectively, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Once construction is complete, the Company determines if the asset qualifies for sale-leaseback
accounting treatment. If the arrangement does not qualify for sale-lease back treatment, the Company continues to depreciate the asset over its useful life. The Company had $47.5 million and $16.5 million of construction project assets in Property
and Equipment, Net at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. 
  83 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


9.
OTHER ASSETS  Other
assets consisted of (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Rabbi Trust
  
$
85,149
 
  
$
82,501
 

 Long-term deposits
  
 
78,617
 
  
 
61,658
 

 Long-term supplies
  
 
36,739
 
  
 
27,099
 

 Intellectual property
  
 
31,760
 
  
 
7,558
 

 Restricted cash
  
 
30,043
 
  
 
26,322
 

 Non-current deferred tax assets
  
 
29,165
 
  
 
16,764
 

 Prepaid income tax on intercompany items
  
 
16,049
 
  
 
13,709
 

 Other
  
 
39,727
 
  
 
23,730
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other assets
  
$
347,249
 
  
$
259,341
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Restricted cash includes various cash deposits with international banks that are used as
collateralization for customary non-debt banking commitments and deposits into trust accounts to conform to standard insurance security requirements. Long-term supplies include, but are not limited to, hangers, frames, sign holders, security tags,
back-room supplies, and construction materials. Other includes prepaid leases and various other assets.   


10.
DEFERRED LEASE CREDITS 
Deferred lease credits are derived from payments received from landlords to wholly or partially offset store construction costs and are
classified between current and long-term liabilities. The amounts, which are amortized over the respective lives of the related leases, consisted of the following (in thousands): 
 












 
  
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 

 Deferred lease credits
  
$
551,468
 
 
$
544,223
 

 Amortized deferred lease credits
  
 
(327,399
) 
 
 
(310,066
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred lease credits, net
  
$
224,069
 
 
$
234,157
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


11.
LEASED FACILITIES  Annual
store rent is comprised of a fixed minimum amount and/or contingent rent based on a percentage of sales. For scheduled rent escalation clauses during the lease terms, the Company records minimum rental expenses on a straight-line basis over the
terms of the leases on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. The term of the lease over which the Company amortizes construction allowances and minimum rental expenses on a straight-line basis begins on the date of
initial possession.  Certain leases provide for contingent rents, which are primarily determined as a percentage of sales in
excess of a predetermined level. The Company records a contingent rent liability in accrued expenses on 
  84 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the corresponding rent expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income when the Company determines that it is probable that the
expense has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  Store lease terms may also require additional payments
covering taxes, common area costs and certain other expenses.  A summary of rent expense follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Store rent:
  



  



  




 Fixed minimum
  
$
388,004
 
  
$
333,419
 
  
$
301,138
 

 Contingent
  
 
16,942
 
  
 
9,306
 
  
 
6,136
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total store rent
  
 
404,946
 
  
 
342,725
 
  
 
307,274
 

 Buildings, equipment and other
  
 
4,719
 
  
 
4,988
 
  
 
5,071
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total rent expense
  
$
409,665
 
  
$
347,713
 
  
$
312,345
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 At January 28, 2012, the Company was committed to non-cancelable leases with remaining terms of one
to 19 years. A summary of operating lease commitments under non-cancelable leases follows (thousands):   








 Fiscal 2012
  
$
 386,140
 

 Fiscal 2013
  
$
380,825
 

 Fiscal 2014
  
$
361,861
 

 Fiscal 2015
  
$
339,041
 

 Fiscal 2016
  
$
310,302
 

 Thereafter
  
$
1,267,083
 
  


12.
ACCRUED EXPENSES  Accrued
expense consisted of (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Accrued taxes
  
$
68,138
 
  
$
40,562
 

 Accrued payroll and related costs
  
 
57,633
 
  
 
71,456
 

 Gift card liability
  
 
47,669
 
  
 
47,098
 

 Construction in progress
  
 
47,526
 
  
 
24,915
 

 Accrued rent
  
 
33,966
 
  
 
23,247
 

 Return reserve
  
 
7,026
 
  
 
10,277
 

 Other
  
 
113,062
 
  
 
82,545
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Accrued expenses
  
$
375,020
 
  
$
300,100
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Accrued payroll and related costs include salaries, benefits, withholdings and other payroll related
costs. Other accrued expenses include expenses incurred but not yet paid related to outside services associated with store, direct-to-consumer and home office operations. 
  85 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


13.
OTHER LIABILITIES  Other
liabilities consisted of (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Accrued straight-line rent
  
$
114,136
 
  
$
95,838
 

 Deferred compensation
  
 
84,573
 
  
 
76,198
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties
  
 
19,496
 
  
 
20,994
 

 Other
  
 
17,143
 
  
 
10,537
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other liabilities
  
$
235,348
 
  
$
203,567
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Deferred compensation includes the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the
“SERP”), the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Savings and Retirement Plan and the Abercrombie & Fitch Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan, all further discussed in Note 18, “Retirement Benefits,”
as well as deferred Board of Directors compensation and other accrued retirement benefits.   


14.
INCOME TAXES  Earnings
from continuing operations before taxes were comprised of (in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Domestic
  
$
148,629
 
  
$
190,570
 
  
$
119,358
 

 Foreign
  
 
37,824
 
  
 
38,000
 
  
 
152
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
186,453
 
  
$
228,570
 
  
$
119,510
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Domestic income above includes intercompany charges to foreign affiliates for management fees,
cost-sharing, royalties and interest. The provision for income taxes from continuing operations consisted of (in thousands):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
100,495
 
 
$
94,922
 
 
$
33,212
 

 State
  
 
11,085
 
 
 
16,126
 
 
 
4,003
 

 Foreign
  
 
13,262
 
 
 
11,395
 
 
 
5,086
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
124,842
 
 
$
122,443
 
 
$
42,301
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
(47,619
) 
 
$
(32,669
) 
 
$
10,055
 

 State
  
 
(10,007
) 
 
 
(7,229
) 
 
 
(147
) 

 Foreign
  
 
(7,625
) 
 
 
(4,258
) 
 
 
(11,652
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
(65,251
) 
 
$
(44,156
) 
 
$
(1,744
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total provision
  
$
59,591
 
 
$
78,287
 
 
$
40,557
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  86 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Reconciliation between the statutory federal income tax rate and the effective tax rate
for continuing operations is as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Federal income tax rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 State income tax, net of federal income tax effect
  
 
4.0
 
 
 
2.5
 
 
 
2.1
 

 Tax effect of foreign earnings
  
 
(5.5
) 
 
 
(2.9
) 
 
 
(4.4
) 

 Other items, net
  
 
(1.5
) 
 
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
1.2
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
32.0
% 
 
 
34.3
% 
 
 
33.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Amounts paid directly to taxing authorities were $118.2 million, $85.1 million, and $27.1 million in
Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively.  The effect of temporary differences which give rise to deferred
income tax assets (liabilities) were as follows (in thousands):   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Deferred compensation
  
$
69,296
 
 
$
59,027
 

 Inventory
  
 
33,074
 
 
 
13,683
 

 Accrued expenses
  
 
20,356
 
 
 
22,920
 

 Rent
  
 
12,001
 
 
 
26,158
 

 Foreign net operating losses (NOLs)
  
 
11,687
 
 
 
11,510
 

 Reserves
  
 
7,911
 
 
 
8,666
 

 Realized and unrealized investment losses
  
 
5,565
 
 
 
592
 

 Other
  
 
—
  
 
 
2,476
 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(2,531
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
$
157,359
 
 
$
145,032
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Property and equipment
  
 
(41,076
) 
 
 
(94,630
) 

 Store supplies
  
 
(10,591
) 
 
 
(11,911
) 

 Other
  
 
(1,949
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
$
(53,616
) 
 
$
(106,541
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred income tax assets
  
$
103,743
 
 
$
38,491
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Accumulated other comprehensive income is shown net of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities,
resulting in a deferred tax liability of $1.6 million and a deferred tax asset of $5.2 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. Accordingly, these deferred taxes are not reflected in the table above. 
As of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, the Company had deferred tax assets related to foreign net operating loss
carryovers that could be utilized to reduce future years’ tax liabilities, totaling $11.7 million and $11.5 million, respectively. A portion of these net operating loss carryovers begin expiring in the year 2016 and some have an indefinite
carryforward period. Management believes it is more likely than 
  87 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

not that these net operating loss carryovers will reduce future years’ tax liabilities in certain foreign jurisdictions less the associated valuation allowance. As of January 28, 2012
and January 29, 2011, the foreign subsidiaries’ net operating valuation allowances totaled $2.5 million and $0.0, respectively.  No other valuation allowances have been provided for deferred tax assets because management believes that it is more likely than not that the full amount of the net deferred tax assets will be realized in
the future.   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits, beginning of the year
  
$
14,827
 
 
$
29,437
 
 
$
43,684
 

 Gross addition for tax positions of the current year
  
 
1,183
 
 
 
562
 
 
 
222
 

 Gross addition for tax positions of prior years
  
 
1,602
 
 
 
1,734
 
 
 
2,167
 

 Reductions of tax positions of prior years for:
  



 



 




 Lapses of applicable statutes of limitations
  
 
(2,448
) 
 
 
(2,328
) 
 
 
(448
) 

 Settlements during the period
  
 
(1,631
) 
 
 
(14,166
) 
 
 
(5,444
) 

 Changes in judgment
  
 
(129
) 
 
 
(412
) 
 
 
(10,744
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits, end of year
  
$
13,404
 
 
$
14,827
 
 
$
29,437
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The amount of the above unrecognized tax benefits at January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and
January 30, 2010 which would impact the Company’s effective tax rate, if recognized, was $13.4 million, $14.8 million and $29.4 million, respectively.  The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Tax expense for Fiscal 2011 includes a $0.7 million increase of net accrued
interest, compared to a $3.4 million reduction of net accrued interest as of the end of Fiscal 2010. Interest and penalties of $6.1 million had been accrued, at the end of Fiscal 2011, compared to $6.2 million accrued at the end of Fiscal 2010.
 The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) is currently conducting an examination of the Company’s U.S. federal
income tax return for Fiscal 2011 as part of the IRS’s Compliance Assurance Process program. IRS examinations for Fiscal 2010 and prior years have been completed and settled. State and foreign returns are generally subject to examination for a
period of three-five years after the filing of the respective return. The Company has various state income tax returns in the process of examination or administrative appeals.  The Company does not expect material adjustments to the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months, but the outcome of tax matters is uncertain and unforeseen results can occur.
 As of January 28, 2012, U.S. taxes have not been provided on approximately $64.5 million of unremitted earnings of
subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. These earnings, which are considered to be invested indefinitely, would become subject to income tax if they were remitted as dividends or were lent to Abercrombie & Fitch or a U.S. affiliate, or
if Abercrombie & Fitch were to sell its stock in the subsidiaries. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practicable because of the complexities associated with
this hypothetical calculation. 
  88 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


15.
LONG-TERM DEBT  On
July 28, 2011, the Company entered into an unsecured Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”) under which up to $350 million is available. This Amended and Restated Credit Agreement serves to
amend and restate in its entirety the syndicated unsecured credit agreement dated April 15, 2008 as previously amended (the “Prior Credit Agreement”). The primary reasons for entering into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
were to extend the termination date from April 12, 2013 to July 27, 2016 and to reduce fees and interest rates. As stated in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the primary purposes of the agreement are for trade and stand-by
letters of credit in the ordinary course of business, as well as to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments, and other general corporate purposes. 
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement has several borrowing options, including interest rates that are based on:
(i) a defined Base Rate, plus a margin based on the Leverage Ratio, payable quarterly; (ii) an Adjusted Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) plus a margin based on the Leverage Ratio, payable at the end
of the applicable interest period for the borrowing and, for interest periods in excess of three months, on the date that is three months after the commencement of the interest period; or (iii) an Adjusted Foreign Currency Rate (as defined in
the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) plus a margin based on the Leverage Ratio, payable at the end of the applicable interest period for the borrowing and, for interest periods in excess of three months, on the date that is three months after
the commencement of the interest period. The Base Rate represents a rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) PNC Bank, National Association’s then publicly announced prime rate, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined in
the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) as then in effect plus  1/2 of 1.0% or (c) the Daily Adjusted Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) as then in effect plus 1.0%. 
The facility fees payable under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement are based on the Company’s Leverage Ratio (i.e., the ratio,
on a consolidated basis, of (a) the sum of total debt (excluding specified permitted foreign bank guarantees and trade letters of credit) plus 600% of forward minimum rent commitments to (b) consolidated earnings, as adjusted, before
interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent (“Consolidated EBITDAR”) for the trailing four-consecutive-fiscal-quarter periods. The facility fees accrue at a rate of 0.125% to 0.30% per annum based on the Leverage Ratio for
the most recent determination date. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement requires that the Leverage Ratio not be greater than 3.75 to 1.00 at the end of each testing period. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also requires that the
“Coverage Ratio” for A&F and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis of (i) Consolidated EBITDAR for the trailing four-consecutive-fiscal-quarter period to (ii) the sum of, without duplication, (x) net interest expense
for such period, (y) scheduled payments of long-term debt due within twelve months of the date of determination and (z) the sum of minimum rent and contingent store rent, not be less than 2.00 to 1.00 at the end of each testing period. The
Company was in compliance with the applicable ratio requirements and other covenants at January 28, 2012. Interest rates on borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement are generally based upon market rates plus a margin based on
the applicable Leverage Ratio. 
  89 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement include customary events of
default such as payment defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, undischarged material judgments, bankruptcy and insolvency, the occurrence of a defined change in control, or the failure to observe the negative covenants and other
covenants related to the operation and conduct of the business of A&F and its subsidiaries. Upon an event of default, the lenders will not be obligated to make loans or other extensions of credit and may, among other things, terminate their
commitments to the Company, and declare any then outstanding loans due and payable immediately.  The Amended and Restated
Credit Agreement will mature on July 27, 2016. The Company had no trade letters of credit outstanding at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. Stand-by letters of credit outstanding, under either the Amended and Restated Credit
Agreement or Prior Credit Agreement as applicable, on January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were immaterial.  As of
January 28, 2012, the Company did not have any borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and had $43.8 million outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement as of January 29, 2011. The amounts outstanding under the Prior
Credit Agreement were denominated in Japanese Yen and were fully repaid during the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012. 
As of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, the Company also had $57.9 million and $24.8 million, respectively, of long-term
debt related to the landlord financing obligation for certain leases where the Company is deemed the owner of the construction project for accounting purposes, as substantially all of the risk of ownership during construction of a leased property is
held by the Company. The landlord financing obligation is amortized over the life of the related lease.  As of January 28,
2012, the carrying value of the Company’s long-term debt approximated fair value. Total interest expense was $7.9 million and $7.8 million for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. The average
interest rate for the long-term debt that had been previously outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement was 2.4% for the fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012. 
 


16.
DERIVATIVES  The Company
is exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and uses derivatives, primarily forward contracts, to manage the financial impacts of these exposures. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency
speculation and does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.  In order to qualify for hedge
accounting treatment, a derivative must be considered highly effective at offsetting changes in either the hedged item’s cash flows or fair value. Additionally, the hedge relationship must be documented to include the risk management objective
and strategy, the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the risk exposure, and how hedge effectiveness will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively. The extent to which a hedging instrument has been, and is expected to continue to be, effective
at achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows is assessed and documented at least quarterly. Any hedge ineffectiveness is reported in current period earnings and hedge accounting is discontinued if it is determined that the derivative
is not highly effective. 
  90 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
For derivatives that either do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as
hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized in earnings. For qualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded as a component of Other Comprehensive Income
(“OCI”) and recognized in earnings when the hedged cash flows affect earnings. The ineffective portion of the derivative gain or loss, as well as changes in the fair value of the derivative’s time value are recognized in current
period earnings. The effectiveness of the hedge is assessed based on changes in the fair value attributable to changes in spot prices. The changes in the fair value of the derivative contract related to the changes in the difference between the spot
price and the forward price are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are also recognized in current period earnings. If the cash flow hedge relationship is terminated, the derivative gains or losses that are deferred in OCI will
be recognized in earnings when the hedged cash flows occur. However, for cash flow hedges that are terminated because the forecasted transaction is not expected to occur in the original specified time period, or a two-month period thereafter, the
derivative gains or losses are immediately recognized in earnings.  The Company uses derivative instruments, primarily forward
contracts designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge the foreign currency exposure associated with forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales to foreign subsidiaries and the related settlement of the
foreign-currency-denominated inter-company receivable. Fluctuations in exchange rates will either increase or decrease the Company’s U.S. dollar equivalent cash flows and affect the Company’s U.S. dollar earnings. Gains or losses on the
foreign exchange forward contracts that are used to hedge these exposures are expected to partially offset this variability. Foreign exchange forward contracts represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another
country at an agreed-upon settlement date. As of January 28, 2012, the maximum length of time over which forecasted foreign-currency-denominated inter-company inventory sales were hedged was thirteen months. The sale of the inventory to the
Company’s customers will result in the reclassification of related derivative gains and losses that are reported in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Substantially all of the remaining unrealized gains or losses related to
foreign-currency-denominated inter-company inventory sales that have occurred as of January 28, 2012 will be recognized in costs of goods sold over the following two months at the values at the date the inventory was sold to the respective
subsidiary.  The Company nets derivative assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to the extent that master
netting arrangements meet the specific accounting requirements set forth by U.S. GAAP.  As of January 28, 2012, the
Company had the following outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts that were entered to hedge either a portion, or all of, forecasted foreign-currency-denominated inter-company inventory sales, the resulting settlement of the
foreign-currency-denominated inter-company accounts receivable, or both:   








 
  
Notional 
Amount(1)
 

 Euro
  
$
218,762 
  

 British Pound
  
$
53,331 
  

 Canadian Dollar
  
$
12,384 
  
  


(1) 
 Amounts are reported in thousands and in U.S. Dollars equivalent as of January 28, 2012. 
  91 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The Company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign
currency denominated net monetary assets/liabilities. Examples of monetary assets/liabilities include cash balances, receivables and payables. Fluctuations in exchange rates result in transaction gains/(losses) being recorded in earnings as U.S.
GAAP requires that monetary assets/liabilities be remeasured at the spot exchange rate at quarter-end or upon settlement. The Company has chosen not to apply hedge accounting to these instruments because there are no differences in the timing of
gain or loss recognition on the hedging instrument and the hedged item.  As of January 28, 2012, the Company had the
following outstanding currency forward contracts that were entered into to hedge foreign currency denominated net monetary assets/liabilities:   








 
  
Notional 
Amount(1)
 

 Japanese Yen
  
$
19,559 
  

 Euro
  
$
11,556 
  

 British Pound
  
$
7,669 
  

 Canadian Dollar
  
$
3,435 
  
  


(1)
 Amounts are
reported in thousands and in U.S. Dollars equivalent as of January 28, 2012.  The location and amounts
of derivative fair values on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were as follows:   
























 
 
 
 
Asset Derivatives
 
 
 
 
Liability Derivatives
 

 
 
Balance SheetLocation
 
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 
 
BalanceSheetLocation
 
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 

 
 
(in thousands)
 

 Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments:
 

 



 



 

 



 




 Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts
 
Other Current Assets
 
$
10,766
 
 
$
727
 
 
Other Liabilities
 
$
874
 
 
$
763
 


 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Derivates Not Designated as Hedging Instruments:
 

 



 



 

 



 




 Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts
 
OtherCurrent Assets
 
$
4
 
 
$
—
  
 
Other Liabilities
 
$
584
 
 
$
380
 


 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
OtherCurrent Assets
 
$
10,770
 
 
$
727
 
 
Other Liabilities
 
$
1,458
 
 
$
1,143
 


 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Refer to Note 7, “Fair Value,” for further discussion of the determination of the fair
value of derivatives. 
  92 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The location and amounts of derivative gains and losses for the fifty-two weeks ended
January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income were as follows:   
















 
 
 
 
 
Fifty-Two Weeks Ended
 

 
 
 
 
 
January 28, 2012
 
  
January 29, 2011
 

 
 
Location
 
 
Gain/(Loss)
 
  
Gain/(Loss)
 

 
 
(in thousands)
 

 Derivatives not designated as Hedging Instruments:
 



 



  




 Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts
 
 
Other Operating Income (Expense), Net
  
 
$
1,503
 
  
$
(971
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


































 
 
Amount ofGain 
(Loss)Recognizedin OCI 
onDerivativeContracts(Effective
Portion)(a) 
 
 
Location ofGain (Loss)ReclassifiedfromAccumulatedOCI into Earnings(Effective Portion)
 
 
Amount ofGain 
(Loss)Reclassified fromAccumulatedOCI
intoEarnings(EffectivePortion)
(b)
 
 
Location ofGain (Loss)Recognized inEarnings onDerivativeContracts(IneffectivePortion andAmountExcluded fromEffectivenessTesting)
 
Amount ofGain 
(Loss)Recognizedin Earningson 
DerivativeContracts(IneffectivePortion
andAmountExcludedfromEffectivenessTesting)(c)
 

 
 
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 
 
  
 
 
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 
 
  
 
January 28,2012
 
 
January 29,2011
 

 
 
(in thousands)
 

 Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships
 



 



 



 



 



 

 



 














 Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts 
 
$
14,415
 
 
$
1,614
 
 
 
Cost of Goods Sold
  
 
$
982
 
 
$
2,122
 
 
Other Operating Expense(Income), Net
 
$
(1,190
) 
 
$
(304
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a)
The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in spot rates. 
 


(b)
The amount represents reclassification from OCI into earnings that occurs when the hedged item affects earnings, which is when merchandise is sold to the Company’s
customers.   


(c)
The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in the difference between the spot price and forward price that is excluded from
the assessment of hedge effectiveness and, therefore, recognized in earnings.   


17.
 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  On June 16, 2009, A&F’s Board of Directors approved the closure of the Company’s 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of
the RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. 
  93 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

Accordingly, the results of operations of RUEHL are reflected in Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the
fifty-two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 30, 2010. Results from discontinued operations for the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011, were immaterial. 
Costs associated with exit or disposal activities are recorded when the liability is incurred. Below is a roll forward from
January 29, 2011 of the liabilities recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 28, 2012 related to the closure of RUEHL branded stores and related direct-to-consumer operations (in millions): 
 








 
  
Fifty-Two Weeks EndedJanuary
28, 2012
 

 Beginning Balance 
  
$
17.2
 

 Interest Accretion / Other, Net(1)
  
 
(1.3
) 

 Cash Payments 
  
 
(15.9
) 


  
  
  
 

 Ending Balance 
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 Other includes an
accrual adjustment related to the settlement of outstanding lease obligations.   


18.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS  The
Company maintains the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Savings & Retirement Plan, a qualified plan. All U.S. associates are eligible to participate in this plan if they are at least 21 years of age and have completed a year of employment
with 1,000 or more hours of service. In addition, the Company maintains the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement, composed of two sub-plans (Plan I and Plan II). Plan I contains contributions made through
December 31, 2004, while Plan II contains contributions made on and after January 1, 2005. Participation in these plans is based on service and compensation. The Company’s contributions are based on a percentage of associates’
eligible annual compensation. The cost of the Company’s contributions to these plans was $16.4 million in Fiscal 2011, $19.4 million in Fiscal 2010 and $17.8 million in Fiscal 2009. 
Effective February 2, 2003, the Company established a Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the
“SERP”) to provide additional retirement income to its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). Subject to service requirements, the CEO will receive a monthly benefit equal to 50% of his final average compensation (as
defined in the SERP) for life. The final average compensation used for the calculation is based on actual compensation, base salary and cash incentive compensation, averaged over the last 36 consecutive full calendar months ending before the
CEO’s retirement. The Company recorded net expense of $1.3 million and $2.7 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively, and net income of $1.0 million for Fiscal 2009, associated with the SERP. 
The expense for the fifty-two weeks ended January 29, 2011, included an expense of $2.1 million to correct a cumulative under accrual
of the SERP relating to prior periods, primarily Fiscal 2008. The Company does not believe this correction was material to the periods affected. 
  94 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


19.
CONTINGENCIES  A&F is
a defendant in lawsuits and other adversary proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are generally expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes
reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules. Moreover, the Company’s assessment of the current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts with respect
to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries, administrative agencies or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with the Company’s evaluation of claims. Actual liabilities may exceed the amounts
reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
The Company intends to defend the following pending matters vigorously, as appropriate. The Company’s identified contingencies
include the following matters:  On September 16, 2005, a derivative action, styled The Booth Family Trust v. Michael S.
Jeffries, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, naming A&F as a nominal defendant and seeking to assert claims for unspecified damages against nine of A&F’s present and former
directors, alleging various breaches of the directors’ fiduciary duty and seeking equitable and monetary relief. In the following three months, four similar derivative actions were filed (three in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Ohio and one in the Court of Common Pleas for Franklin County, Ohio) against present and former directors of A&F alleging various breaches of the directors’ fiduciary duty allegedly arising out of antecedent employment
law and securities class actions brought against the Company. A consolidated amended derivative complaint was filed in the federal proceeding on July 10, 2006. On February 16, 2007, A&F announced that its Board of Directors had
received a report of the Special Litigation Committee established by the Board to investigate and act with respect to claims asserted in the derivative cases, which concluded that there was no evidence to support the asserted claims and directed the
Company to seek dismissal of the derivative cases. On September 10, 2007, the Company moved to dismiss the federal derivative cases on the authority of the Special Litigation Committee Report. On March 12, 2009, the Company’s motion
was granted and, on April 10, 2009, plaintiffs filed an appeal from the order of dismissal in the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. On April 5, 2011, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
reversed the decision of the District Court and remanded the action for further proceedings. On November 1, 2011, the District Court entered an order which gave preliminary approval to a proposed settlement of the consolidated derivative
litigation. The District Court also set a hearing (the “Fairness Hearing”) for December 13, 2011 to determine whether the proposed settlement should be finally approved and to consider an award of fees and expenses to plaintiffs’
counsel. The District Court also directed that notice be given to the Company’s stockholders concerning the proposed settlement and their right to be heard in connection with the Fairness Hearing. On December 19, 2011, the District Court,
after the Fairness Hearing, entered a final order (1) approving the proposed settlement submitted to the District Court by the parties to the derivative litigation and (2) dismissing with prejudice all claims contained in the 2005
derivative cases. The District Court’s order also resulted in dismissal of the state-court derivative action, which had been stayed pending resolution of the federal derivative cases. 
  95 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
On December 21, 2007, Spencer de la Cruz, a former employee, filed an action
against Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and Abercrombie & Fitch Stores, Inc. (collectively, the “Defendants”) in the Superior Court of Orange County, California (the “Court”). He sought to allege, on behalf of himself
and a putative class of past and present employees in the period beginning on December 19, 2003, claims for failure to provide meal breaks, for waiting time penalties, for failure to keep accurate employment records, and for unfair business
practices. By successive amendments, plaintiff added 10 additional plaintiffs and additional claims seeking injunctive relief, unpaid wages, penalties, interest, and attorney’s fees and costs. Defendants denied the material allegations of
plaintiffs’ complaints throughout the litigation and asserted numerous affirmative defenses. On July 23, 2010, plaintiffs moved for class certification in the action. On December 9, 2010, after briefing and argument, the Court granted
in part and denied in part plaintiffs’ motion, certifying sub-classes to pursue meal break claims, meal premium pay claims, work related travel claims, travel expense claims, termination pay claims, reporting time claims, bag check claims, pay
record claims, and minimum wage claims. The parties continued to litigate questions relating to the Court’s certification order and to the merits of plaintiffs’ claims until January 25, 2012. On that date, the named plaintiffs and the
Defendants signed a memorandum of understanding which, subject to final Court approval, was intended to result in a full and final settlement of all claims in the action on a class-wide basis. A formal Settlement Agreement and related papers were
filed with the Court on February 21, 2012 and the Court scheduled a hearing on March 14, 2012 to determine whether to provide preliminary approval to the proposed settlement and to order that notice of the proposed settlement be given to
the absent members of the settlement class. On March 14, 2012, the Court continued the hearing to April 18, 2012. As of January 28, 2012, the Company increased its litigation reserve to cover the expected cost of the proposed
settlement.  On October 17, 2011, Amber Echavez, a former employee, filed an action against Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. and two of its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Defendants”) in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California. She alleged the Defendants violated California labor laws by failing to provide suitable seats for her and for other
current and former employees. She sought to maintain the suit as a class action on behalf of a class of retail sales employees and also as a representative action under California’s Private Attorney General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”). On
November 23, 2011, the Defendants removed the action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California (the “Court”) and on February 6, 2012, moved (1) to dismiss the action for failure to state a
claim and (2) to strike plaintiff’s class allegations. On March 12, 2012, the Court entered an order denying Defendants’ motion to dismiss and granting Defendants’ motion to strike plaintiff’s class allegations. The
parties are continuing to litigate plaintiff’s remaining claims.   


20.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  Accounting Standards Codification 820-10 “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures,” (“ASC 820-10”) was amended in January 2010 to require additional disclosures related to
recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfers; and information on
purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was effective for the

  96 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

Company beginning on January 31, 2010. The disclosure guidance adopted on January 31, 2010, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2011, ASC 820-10 was further amended to clarify certain disclosure requirements and improve consistency with international
reporting standards. This amendment is to be applied prospectively and is effective for the Company beginning January 28, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.
 Accounting Standards Codification Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income,” was amended in June 2011 to require entities to
present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendment
does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income under current GAAP. This guidance is effective for the Company’s fiscal year and
interim periods beginning January 29, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.   


21.
SUBSEQUENT EVENT  On
February 24, 2012, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. In conjunction with the Term Loan Agreement, the Company amended the
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement principally to be able to enter into the Term Loan Agreement. The Company is not required to draw down all, or any portion, of the Term Loan Agreement. Proceeds from the Term Loan Agreement may be used for any
general corporate purpose. Depending on market conditions, liquidity and other factors, the Company may use all, or a portion, of the Term Loan Agreement to accelerate A&F’s previously announced stock repurchase program. Each loan will
mature on February 23, 2017, with quarterly amortization payments of principal beginning in May 2013. Interest on borrowings may be determined under several alternative methods including LIBOR plus a margin based upon the Company’s
Leverage Ratio, which represents the ratio of (a) the sum of total debt (excluding specified permitted foreign bank guarantees) plus 600% of forward minimum rent commitments to (b) Consolidated EBITDAR (as defined in the Term Loan
Agreement) for the trailing four-consecutive-fiscal-quarter period. Covenants are generally consistent with those in the Company’s Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. To date, no draws have been made under the Term Loan Agreement.
  


22.
PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS  On July 16, 1998, A&F’s Board of Directors declared a dividend of one Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock Purchase Right (the “Rights”) for each outstanding share of
Class A Common Stock (the “Common Stock”), par value $0.01 per share, of A&F. The dividend was paid on July 28, 1998 to stockholders of record on that date. Shares of Common Stock issued after July 28, 1998 and prior to
May 25, 1999 were issued with one Right attached. A&F’s Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split (the “Stock Split”) on the Common Stock, payable on June 15, 1999 to the holders of record at the close of
business on May 25, 1999. In connection with the Stock Split, the number of Rights associated 
  97 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

with each share of Common Stock outstanding as of the close of business on May 25, 1999, or issued or delivered after May 25, 1999 and prior to the “Distribution Date” (as
defined below), was proportionately adjusted from one Right to 0.50 Right. Each share of Common Stock issued after May 25, 1999 and prior to the Distribution Date has been, and will be issued, with 0.50 Right attached so that all shares of
Common Stock outstanding prior to the Distribution Date will have 0.50 Right attached.  The Rights are initially attached to
the shares of Common Stock. The Rights will separate from the Common Stock after a Distribution Date occurs. The “Distribution Date” generally means the earlier of (i) the close of business on the 10th day after the date (the
“Share Acquisition Date”) of the first public announcement that a person or group (other than A&F or any of A&F’s subsidiaries or any employee benefit plan of A&F or of any of A&F’s subsidiaries) has acquired
beneficial ownership of 20% or more of A&F’s outstanding shares of Common Stock (an “Acquiring Person”), or (ii) the close of business on the 10th business day (or such later date as A&F’s Board of Directors may
designate before any person has become an Acquiring Person) after the date of the commencement of a tender or exchange offer by any person which would, if consummated, result in such person becoming an Acquiring Person. The Rights are not
exercisable until the Distribution Date. After the Distribution Date, each whole Right may be exercised to purchase, at an initial exercise price of $250, one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock.
 At any time after any person becomes an Acquiring Person, but before the occurrence of any of the events described in the
immediately following paragraph, each holder of a Right, other than the Acquiring Person and certain affiliated persons, will be entitled to purchase, upon exercise of the Right, shares of Common Stock having a market value of twice the exercise
price of the Right. At any time after any person becomes an Acquiring Person, but before any person becomes the beneficial owner of 50% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock or the occurrence of any of the events described in the
immediately following paragraph, A&F’s Board of Directors may exchange all or part of the Rights, other than Rights beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person and certain affiliated persons, for shares of Common Stock at an exchange ratio of
one share of Common Stock per 0.50 Right.  If, after any person has become an Acquiring Person, (i) A&F is involved in
a merger or other business combination transaction in which A&F is not the surviving corporation or A&F’s Common Stock is exchanged for other securities or assets, or (ii) A&F and/or one or more of A&F’s subsidiaries
sell or otherwise transfer 50% or more of the assets or earning power of A&F and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, each holder of a Right, other than the Acquiring Person and certain affiliated persons, will be entitled to buy, for the
exercise price of the Rights, the number of shares of common stock of the other party to the business combination or sale, or in certain circumstances, an affiliate, which at the time of such transaction will have a market value of twice the
exercise price of the Right.  The Rights will expire on July 16, 2018, unless earlier exchanged or redeemed. A&F may
redeem all of the Rights at a price of $0.01 per whole Right at any time before any person becomes an Acquiring Person.  Rights
holders have no rights as a stockholder of A&F, including no right to vote or to receive dividends. 
  98 


Table of Contents
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


23.
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)  Summarized unaudited quarterly financial results for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 follows (in thousands, except per share amounts): 
 




















 Fiscal 2011 Quarter 
  
First
 
  
Second
 
  
Third
 
  
Fourth
 

 Net sales 
  
$
836,674
 
  
$
916,763
 
  
$
1,075,856
 
  
$
1,328,766
 

 Gross profit 
  
$
543,661
 
  
$
583,042
 
  
$
646,522
 
  
$
745,646
 

 Net income from discontinued operations, net of tax 
  
$
 796
 
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Net income 
  
$
25,141
 
  
$
32,031
 
  
$
50,905
 
  
$
19,580
 

 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations(1)
  
$
0.27
 
  
$
0.35
 
  
$
0.57
 
  
$
0.22
 

 Net income per diluted share from discontinued operations 
  
$
0.01
 
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Net income per diluted share(1)
  
$
0.28
 
  
$
0.35
 
  
$
0.57
 
  
$
0.22
 
  




















 Fiscal 2010 Quarter 
  
First
 
 
Second
 
  
Third
 
  
Fourth
 

 Net sales 
  
$
687,804
 
 
$
745,798
 
  
$
885,778
 
  
$
1,149,396
 

 Gross profit 
  
$
431,416
 
 
$
485,348
 
  
$
564,432
 
  
$
730,986
 

 Net (loss) income 
  
$
(11,828
) 
 
$
19,479
 
  
$
50,040
 
  
$
92,593
 

 Net (loss) income per diluted share(2)
  
$
(0.13
) 
 
$
0.22
 
  
$
0.56
 
  
$
1.03
 
    


(1)
 The fourth quarter
of Fiscal 2011 includes impairment charges of $0.49, asset write down charges of $0.10, store closure and lease exit charges of $0.13, legal charges of $0.07, and charges related to a change in intent with regarding the Company’s ARS portfolio
of $0.10.   


(2)
 The second quarter
of Fiscal 2010 includes impairment charges of $0.02. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010 includes impairment charges of $0.33 and store closure charges of $0.03. 
  99 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and its subsidiaries (the Company) at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended January 28, 2012 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s
management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audit.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

  100



Table of Contents
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.  /s/     PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Columbus, Ohio  March 27, 2012 
  101



Table of Contents


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. 
None. 
  102



Table of Contents


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.  Disclosure Controls and Procedures  A&F maintains disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the
reports that A&F files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to
A&F’s management, including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of A&F and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of A&F, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Because of
inherent limitations, disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of disclosure controls and procedures are met. 
A&F’s management, including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of A&F and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of A&F, evaluated the effectiveness of A&F’s design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
A&F and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of A&F concluded that A&F’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable level of assurance as of January 28, 2012, the end of the period
covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 The management of A&F is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. A&F’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluations of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Accordingly, even an effective system of internal control over financial reporting
will provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation.  With the participation of the Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of A&F and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of A&F, management evaluated the effectiveness of A&F’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2012 using
criteria established in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Based on the assessment of A&F’s internal control over financial reporting,
under the criteria described in the preceding sentence, management has concluded that, as of January 28, 2012, A&F’s internal control over financial reporting was effective. 
A&F’s independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness
of A&F’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2012 as stated in their report, which is included in “ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  103



Table of Contents
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
There were no changes in A&F’s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter ended January 28, 2012
that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, A&F’s internal control over financial reporting. 
  104



Table of Contents


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION.  None.  PART III 
 
  105



Table of Contents


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.  Information concerning directors, executive officers and persons nominated or chosen to become directors or executive officers is incorporated by reference from the text to be included under the caption
“PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS” in A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012 and from the text under the caption “SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
OF THE REGISTRANT” in PART I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act
 Information concerning beneficial ownership reporting compliance under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference from the text to be included under the caption “SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in
A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012.  Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics  Information concerning the Abercrombie & Fitch Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is
incorporated by reference from the text to be included under the caption “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” in A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012.  Audit Committee 
Information concerning A&F’s Audit Committee, including the determination that the Audit Committee has at least one audit
committee financial expert (as defined under applicable SEC rules) serving on the Audit Committee, is incorporated by reference from the text to be included under the caption “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Committees of the
Board — Audit Committee” in A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012.  Procedures by which Stockholders May Recommend Nominees to A&F’s Board of Directors  Information concerning the procedures by which stockholders of A&F may recommend nominees to A&F’s Board of Directors, and the changes to those procedures which have been implemented since
A&F’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 16, 2011, is incorporated by reference from the text to be included under the captions “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Director Qualifications and Consideration of
Director Candidates” and “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Director Nominations” in A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012. 
  106



Table of Contents


ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.  Information regarding executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the text to be included under the captions “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Compensation of
Directors,” “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Board Role in Risk Oversight,” “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,” “COMPENSATION
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS,” “REPORT OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION” and “EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION” in A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
on June 14, 2012. 
  107



Table of Contents


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS. 
Information concerning the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference from the text to be
included under the caption “SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT” in A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012. 
Information regarding the number of securities to be issued and remaining available under equity compensation plans as of January 28,
2012 is incorporated by reference from the text to be included under the caption “EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS” in A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012. 
  108



Table of Contents


ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. 
Information concerning certain relationships and transactions involving the Company and certain related persons within the meaning of
Item 404(a) of SEC Regulation S-K as well as information concerning A&F’s policies and procedures for the review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons is incorporated by reference from the text to be included
under the captions “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Compensation of Directors” and “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in A&F’s definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012.  Information concerning the independence of
the directors of A&F is incorporated by reference from the text to be included under the caption “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS — Director Independence” in A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012. 
  109



Table of Contents


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.  Information concerning the pre-approval policies and procedures of A&F’s Audit Committee and fees for services rendered by the Company’s principal independent registered public accounting
firm is incorporated by reference from the text to be included under captions “AUDIT COMMITTEE MATTERS — Pre-Approval Policy” and “AUDIT COMMITTEE MATTERS — Fees of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in
A&F’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012. 
  110



Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.  (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 
(1) Consolidated Financial Statements:  Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010. 
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and
January 30, 2010.  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended January 28,
2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010.  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
(2) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules:  All financial statement schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the SEC are omitted because the required information is either presented in the consolidated
financial statements or notes thereto, or is not applicable, required or material. 
  111



Table of Contents
(3) Exhibits:  The documents listed below are filed or furnished with this Annual Report on Form 10-K as exhibits or incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference as noted: 
 









3.1
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of A&F as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on August 27, 1996, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1
to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended November 2, 1996 (File No. 001-12107).




3.2
  
Certificate of Designation of Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock of A&F as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on July 21, 1998, incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 3.2 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 1999 (File No. 001-12107).




3.3
  
Certificate of Decrease of Shares Designated as Class B Common Stock as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on July 30, 1999, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.3
to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended July 31, 1999 (File No. 001-12107).




3.4
  
Certificate of Amendment of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Abercrombie & Fitch Co., as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on June 16, 2011,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed June 17, 2011 (File No. 001-12107).




3.5
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. reflecting amendments through June 16, 2011, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended July 30, 2011 (File No. 001-12107). [This document represents the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. in compiled
form incorporating all amendments. This compiled document has not been filed with the Delaware Secretary of State.]




3.6
  
Certificate regarding Approval of Amendment to Section 2.03 of Amended and Restated Bylaws of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. by Stockholders of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. at Annual
Meeting of Stockholders held on June 10, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed June 16, 2009 (File No. 001-12107).




3.7
  
Certificate regarding Approval of Addition of New Article IX of Amended and Restated Bylaws by Board of Directors of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. on June 10, 2009, incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed June 16, 2009 (File No. 001-12107).




3.8
  
Certificate regarding Approval of Amendments to Sections 1.09 and 2.04 of Amended and Restated Bylaws of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. by Board of Directors of Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. on November 15, 2011, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed November 21, 2011 (File No. 001-12107).




3.9
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. reflecting amendments through November 15, 2011, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to A&F’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 29, 2011 (File No. 001-12107). [This document represents the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. in compiled form incorporating all
amendments.]
  112



Table of Contents






4.1
  
Rights Agreement, dated as of July 16, 1998, between A&F and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 1 to A&F’s
Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated and filed July 21, 1998 (File No. 001-12107).




4.2
  
Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement, dated as of April 21, 1999, between A&F and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2 to
A&F’s Form 8-A (Amendment No. 1), dated April 23, 1999 and filed April 26, 1999 (File No. 001-12107).




4.3
  
Certificate of adjustment of number of Rights associated with each share of Class A Common Stock, dated May 27, 1999, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to
A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended July 31, 1999 (File No. 001-12107).




4.4
  
Appointment and Acceptance of Successor Rights Agent, effective as of the opening of business on October 8, 2001, between A&F and National City Bank, incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.6 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended August 4, 2001 (File No. 001-12107).




4.5
  
Amendment No. 2, dated as of June 11, 2008, to the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 16, 1998, between A&F and National City Bank (as successor to First Chicago Trust Company
of New York), as Rights Agent, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.01 to A&F’s Form 8-A/A (Amendment No. 2), dated and filed June 12, 2008 (File No. 001-12107).




4.6
  
Appointment and Acceptance of Successor Rights Agent, effective as of the opening of business on November 2, 2009, between A&F and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company,
LLC (as successor to National City Bank), as Rights Agent, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to A&F’s Form 8-A/A (Amendment No. 5), dated and filed November 3, 2009 (File No. 001-12107).




4.7
  
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, entered into as of July 28, 2011, among Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co.; the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers (as defined in
the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement); Abercrombie & Fitch Co.; the Lenders (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement); PNC Bank, National Association, as global agent, the Swing Line Lender and an LC Issuer; PNC Capital
Markets LLC, as a co-lead arranger and a co-bookrunner; J.P. Morgan Securities, LLC, as a co-lead arranger and a co-bookrunner; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent and an LC Issuer; Fifth Third Bank, as a co-documentation agent; and The
Huntington National Bank, as a co-documentation agent and an LC Issuer, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed August 3, 2011 (File No. 001-12107).




4.8
  
Amended and Restated Guaranty of Payment (Domestic Credit Parties), dated as of July 28, 2011, among Abercrombie & Fitch Co.; the material Domestic Subsidiaries (as defined in
the Amended and Restated Guaranty of Payment (Domestic Credit Parties)); and PNC Bank, National Association, as global agent, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed August 3, 2011
(File No. 001-12107).




4.9
  
Supplement No. 1 to Amended and Restated Guaranty of Payment (Domestic Credit Parties), dated as of August 31, 2011, between NSOP, LLC, as a New Guarantor, and PNC Bank, National
Association, as global agent, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended July 30, 2011 (File No.
001-12107).
  113



Table of Contents






4.10
  
Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement, made as of February 24, 2012, among Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. and the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers (as defined in the
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 28, 2011), as borrowers; Abercrombie & Fitch Co., as a guarantor; PNC Bank, National Association, as Global Agent, Swing Line Lender, an LC Issuer and a Lender; PNC Capital Markets LLC, as
a Co-Lead Arranger and a Co-Bookrunner; J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as a Co-Lead Arranger and a Co-Bookrunner; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, an LC Issuer and a Lender; Fifth Third Bank, as a Co-Documentation Agent and a Lender;
The Huntington National Bank, as a Co-Documentation Agent, an LC Issuer and a Lender; PNC Bank, National Association, Canada Branch, as a Canadian Lender; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Toronto Branch, as a Canadian Lender; Bank of America, N.A., as a
Lender; U.S. Bank National Association, as a Lender; Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania, as a Lender; and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as a Lender, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
and filed February 29, 2012 (File No. 001-12107).




4.11
  
Term Loan Agreement, entered into as of February 24, 2012, among Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co.; Abercrombie & Fitch Co.; the Lenders (as defined in the Term Loan
Agreement); PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent and a Lender; PNC Capital Markets LLC, as a co-lead arranger and a co-bookrunner; J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as a co-lead arranger and a co-bookrunner; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
as syndication agent and a Lender; Fifth Third Bank, as a co-documentation agent and a Lender; Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania, as a co-documentation agent and a Lender; The Huntington National Bank, as a Lender; U.S. Bank National Association, as a
Lender; HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as a Lender; and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as a Lender, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed February 29, 2012 (File No.
001-12107).




4.12
  
Guaranty of Payment (Credit Parties), dated as of February 24, 2012, among Abercrombie & Fitch Co.; the material Domestic Subsidiaries (as identified in the Guaranty
of Payment (Credit Parties)); and PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed February 29, 2012 (File No.
001-12107).




*10.1
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Incentive Compensation Performance Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed
June 18, 2007 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.2
  
1998 Restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 1996 Stock Option and Performance Incentive Plan (reflects amendments through December 7, 1999 and the two-for-one stock split
distributed June 15, 1999 to stockholders of record on May 25, 1999), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2000 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.3
  
1998 Restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 1996 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors (reflects amendments through January 30, 2003 and the two-for-one stock split
distributed June 15, 1999 to stockholders of record on May 25, 1999), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003
(File No. 001-12107).
  114



Table of Contents






*10.4
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2002 Stock Plan for Associates (as amended and restated May 22, 2003), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to A&F’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended May 3, 2003 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.5
  
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, entered into as of August 15, 2005, by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, including as Exhibit A thereto the Abercrombie &
Fitch Co. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (Michael S. Jeffries) effective February 2, 2003, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed August 26, 2005 (File No.
001-12107).




*10.6
  
Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed December 22, 2008 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.7
  
Amendment No. 1 to Michael S. Jeffries Employment Agreement, entered into on April 12, 2010, by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed April 13, 2010 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.8
  
Amendment No. 2 to Michael S. Jeffries Employment Agreement, made and entered into on January 28, 2011, by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed January 31, 2011 (File No. 001-12107).




10.9
  
Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, made and entered into to be effective as of June 1, 2010, by and between Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., as Lessor, and Michael S. Jeffries,
as Lessee, and consented to by DFZ, LLC, as Owner (the “Gulfstream Agreement”), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended May 1, 2010 (File No.
001-12107).




10.10
  
Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, made and entered into to be effective as of November 12, 2010, by and between Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., as Lessor, and Michael S.
Jeffries, as Lessee, and consented to by NetJets Sales, Inc., NetJets Aviation, Inc. and NetJets Services, Inc. (the “NetJets Agreement”), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 (File No. 001-12107).




10.11
  
Letter of Understanding, dated November 12, 2010, between Michael S. Jeffries and Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. in respect of the Gulfstream Agreement and the NetJets
Agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.12
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan (as amended and restated May 22, 2003) — as authorized by the Board of Directors of A&F on December
17, 2007, to become one of two plans following the division of said Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan (as amended and restated May 22, 2003) into two separate plans effective January 1, 2005 and to be named the
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan (Plan I) [terms to govern “amounts deferred” (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) in taxable years beginning before
January 1, 2005 and any earnings thereon], incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended May 3, 2003 (File No.
001-12107).
  115



Table of Contents






*10.13
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan (January 1, 2001 Restatement) — as authorized by the Compensation Committee of the A&F Board
of Directors on August 14, 2008, to become one of two sub-plans following the division of said Abercrombie & Fitch Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan (January 1, 2001 Restatement) into two sub-plans effective immediately
before January 1, 2009 and to be named the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan I [terms to govern amounts “deferred” (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended) before January 1, 2005, and any earnings thereon], incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.14
  
First Amendment to the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan I (Plan I) (January 1, 2001 Restatement), as authorized by the Compensation
Committee of the A&F Board of Directors on August 14, 2008 and executed on behalf of A&F on September 3, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
August 2, 2008 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.15
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan (II) — as authorized by the Compensation Committee of the A&F Board of Directors on August
14, 2008, to become one of two sub-plans following the division of the Abercrombie & Fitch Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan (January 1, 2001 Restatement) into two sub-plans effective immediately before January 1, 2009 and to
be named the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan II [terms to govern amounts “deferred” (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) in taxable years
beginning on or after January 1, 2005, and any earnings thereon], incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended August 2, 2008 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.16
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2003 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended May 3, 2003 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.17
  
Form of Restricted Shares Award Agreement (also called Stock Unit Agreement) used for grants under the 1998 Restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 1996 Stock Option and
Performance Incentive Plan prior to November 28, 2004, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.18
  
Form of Restricted Shares Award Agreement (No Performance-Based Goals) used for grants under the 1998 Restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 1996 Stock Option and
Performance Incentive Plan after November 28, 2004, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.19
  
Form of Restricted Shares Award Agreement (Performance-Based Goals) used for grants under the 1998 Restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 1996 Stock Option and Performance
Incentive Plan after November 28, 2004, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No.
001-12107).
  116



Table of Contents






*10.20
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement (Nonstatutory Stock Options) used for grants under the 1998 Restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 1996 Stock Option and Performance Incentive
Plan prior to November 28, 2004, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.21
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement (Nonstatutory Stock Options) used for grants under the 1998 Restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 1996 Stock Option and Performance Incentive
Plan after November 28, 2004, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.22
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement used for grants under the 1998 Restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 1996 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors, incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.16 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.23
  
Form of Restricted Shares Award Agreement (also called Stock Unit Agreement) used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2002 Stock Plan for Associates prior to
November 28, 2004, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.24
  
Form of Restricted Shares Award Agreement used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2002 Stock Plan for Associates after November 28, 2004 and before March 6, 2006,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.25
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement (Nonstatutory Stock Options) used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2002 Stock Plan for Associates prior to November 28, 2004,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.26
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement (Nonstatutory Stock Options) used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2002 Stock Plan for Associates after November 28, 2004 and
before March 6, 2006, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.27
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2003 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors prior to November 28, 2004, incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.21 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.28
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2003 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors after November 28, 2004, incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.22 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 30, 2004 (File No. 001-12107).
  117



Table of Contents






*10.29
  
Form of Stock Unit Agreement under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2003 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors entered into by A&F in order to evidence the automatic grants of
stock units made on January 31, 2005 and to be entered into by A&F in respect of future automatic grants of stock units, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed February 3,
2005 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.30
  
Form of Restricted Shares Award Agreement used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2002 Stock Plan for Associates on or after March 6, 2006, incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.31
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement (Nonstatutory Stock Options) used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2002 Stock Plan for Associates on or after March 6, 2006,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.36 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.32
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed June 17,
2005 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.33
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement (Nonstatutory Stock Option) used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan prior to March 6, 2006, incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed August 19, 2005 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.34
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for Employees used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan prior to March 6, 2006, incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed August 19, 2005 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.35
  
Summary of Terms of the Annual Restricted Stock Unit Grants to Non-Associate Directors of Abercrombie & Fitch Co., to summarize the terms of the grants to the Board of Directors
of A&F under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended August 2, 2008 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.36
  
Summary of Compensation Structure for Non-Associate Members of Board of Directors of A&F, effective February 23, 2010, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
A&F’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended May 1, 2010 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.37
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement (Nonstatutory Stock Option) for Associates used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan on or after March 6,
2006, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.38
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for Associates used for grants under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan on or after March 6, 2006,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006 (File No. 001-12107).
  118



Table of Contents






*10.39
  
Trust Agreement, made as of October 16, 2006, between A&F and Wilmington Trust Company, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated and filed October 17, 2006 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.40
  
Amended and Restated Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
and filed June 17, 2011 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.41
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement to be used to evidence the grant of non-statutory stock options to associates of A&F and its subsidiaries under the Amended and Restated
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan) after August 21, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated and filed August 27, 2007 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.42
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement to be used to evidence the grant of restricted stock units to associates of A&F and its subsidiaries under the Amended and Restated
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan) after August 21, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to A&F’s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated and filed August 27, 2007 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.43
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement to be used to evidence the grant of restricted stock units to Executive Vice Presidents of A&F and its subsidiaries under the
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan on and after March 4, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed March 6, 2008 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.44
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Associate Stock Purchase Plan (Effective July 1, 1998), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Schedule 13D filed by Michael S. Jeffries on
May 2, 2006.




*10.45
  
Form of Stock Appreciation Right Agreement to be used to evidence the grant of stock appreciation rights to associates (employees) of A&F and its subsidiaries under the Amended
and Restated Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan) on and after February 12, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed February 17, 2009 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.46
  
Form of Stock Appreciation Right Agreement to be used to evidence the Semi-Annual Grants of stock appreciation rights to Michael S. Jeffries under the Abercrombie &
Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (now known as the Amended and Restated Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan) as contemplated by the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, by and
between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed February 17, 2009 (File No.
001-12107).
  119



Table of Contents






*10.47
  
Stock Appreciation Right Agreement [Retention Grant Tranche 1], made to be effective as of December 19, 2008, by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries entered into
to evidence first tranche of Retention Grant covering 1,600,000 stock appreciation rights granted under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (now known as the Amended and Restated Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007
Long-Term Incentive Plan) as contemplated by the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to A&F’s Current Report
on Form 8-K dated and filed February 17, 2009 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.48
  
Stock Appreciation Right Agreement [Retention Grant Tranche 2] by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries entered into effective as of March 2, 2009 to evidence second
tranche of Retention Grant covering 1,200,000 stock appreciation rights granted under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (now known as the Amended and Restated Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive
Plan) as contemplated by the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
and filed February 17, 2009 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.49
  
Stock Appreciation Right Agreement [Retention Grant Tranche 3] by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries entered into effective as of September 1, 2009 to evidence
third tranche of Retention Grant covering 1,200,000 stock appreciation rights granted under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (now known as the Amended and Restated Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term
Incentive Plan) as contemplated by the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, by and between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to A&F’s Current Report on Form
8-K dated and filed February 17, 2009 (File No. 001-12107).




*10.50
  
Form of Stock Appreciation Right Agreement to be used to evidence the grant of stock appreciation rights to associates (employees) of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and its
subsidiaries under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan after February 12, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed February 17, 2009 (File No.
001-12107).




*10.51
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan (Plan II) — as authorized by the Board of Directors of A&F on December 17, 2007, to become one of two
plans following the division of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan (as amended and restated May 22, 2003) into two separate plans effective January 1, 2005 and to be named Abercrombie & Fitch Co.
Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan (Plan II) [terms to govern “amounts deferred” (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2005 and any
earnings thereon], incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.50 to A&F’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 (File No. 001-12107).




12.1
  
Computation of Leverage Ratio and Coverage Ratio for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012.




14.1
  
Abercrombie & Fitch Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as amended by the Board of Directors of A&F on August 21, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 14 to
A&F’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed August 27, 2007 (File No. 001-12107).
  120



Table of Contents






21.1
  
List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant




23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP




24.1
  
Powers of Attorney




31.1
  
Certifications by Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




31.2
  
Certifications by Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




32.1
  
Certifications by Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002**




101
  
The following materials from Abercrombie & Fitch Co.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business
Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010; (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011;
(iii) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29,
2011 and January 30, 2010; and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements***
  


*
 
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.   


**
 
These certifications are furnished.   


***
 
Pursuant to Rule 406T of SEC Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files on Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K are deemed not filed or part of a registration
statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability
under these Sections.  (b) The documents listed in Item 15(a)(3) are filed or furnished with this Annual
Report on Form 10-K as exhibits or incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference.  (c) Financial
Statement Schedules  None 
  121



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or l5(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.   






 
 
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO.




Date: March 27, 2012
 
By  /s/    JONATHAN E. RAMSDEN


 
Jonathan E. Ramsden,


 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 27, 2012.   








 Signature
 
   
 
 Title





 /s/     Michael S. Jeffries Michael S. Jeffries
 

 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director






                         
       *             James B.
Bachmann
 

 
Director






                         
       *             Lauren J.
Brisky
 

 
Director






                         
       *             Michael E.
Greenlees
 

 
Director






                         
       *             Archie M.
Griffin
 

 
Director






                         
       *             Kevin S.
Huvane
 

 
Director






                         
       *             John W.
Kessler
 

 
Director






                         
       *             Elizabeth M.
Lee
 

 
Director





 /s/     Jonathan E. Ramsden            
Jonathan E. Ramsden
 

 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer(Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)






                         
       *             Craig R.
Stapleton
 

 
Director
  


*
The undersigned, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K on behalf of each of the above-named directors of the registrant pursuant
to powers of attorney executed by such directors, which powers of attorney are filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K as exhibits, in the capacities as indicated and on March 27, 2012. 
 






By
 
 /s/     Jonathan E.
Ramsden            


 
Jonathan E. Ramsden


 
Attorney-in-fact

  122



Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549 
   
FORM 10-K 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF  THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY
28, 2012     
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   
  EXHIBITS
    
     
 


Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 






 ExhibitNo.
  
 Document




12.1
  
Computation of Leverage Ratio and Coverage Ratio for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012




21.1
  
List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant




23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP




24.1
  
Powers of Attorney




31.1
  
Certifications by Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




31.2
  
Certifications by Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




32.1
  
Certifications by Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002




101
  
The following materials from Abercrombie & Fitch Co.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business
Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010; (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011;
(iii) Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012, January 29,
2011 and January 30, 2010; and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




