
10-K
1
d263679d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  Form 10-K
  


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from            
to             Commission file number 1-12297 
   
Penske Automotive Group, Inc.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   






Delaware
 
22-3086739

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




 2555 Telegraph Road Bloomfield Hills, Michigan
 
48302-0954

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (248) 648-2500 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Voting Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None. 
   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes  x    No  ¨ Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller
reporting company. (Check one):   










Large accelerated filer
 
x
  
Accelerated filer
 
¨






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x
The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2011 was $1,005,976,827. As of
February 15, 2012, there were 90,277,356 shares of voting common stock outstanding.   
  Documents
Incorporated by Reference  Certain portions, as expressly described in this report, of the registrant’s proxy
statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of the Stockholders to be held May 9, 2012 are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10-14.   
   


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 










 Items
  
 
  
Page
 

PART I
  








1
  
Business
  
 
1
  





1A.
  
Risk Factors
  
 
18
  





1B.
  
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
22
  





2
  
Properties
  
 
22
  





3
  
Legal Proceedings
  
 
22
  





4
  
Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
22
  




PART II
  








5
  
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
23
  





6
  
Selected Financial Data
  
 
25
  





7
  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
27
  





7A.
  
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
48
  





8
  
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
49
  





9
  
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
49
  





9A.
  
Controls and Procedures
  
 
49
  





9B.
  
Other Information
  
 
49
  




PART III
  








10
  
Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
50
  





11
  
Executive Compensation
  
 
50
  





12
  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
50
  





13
  
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
50
  





14
  
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
50
  




PART IV
  








15
  
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
50
  



Table of Contents
PART I 
 


Item 1.
Business 
We are the second largest automotive retailer headquartered in the U.S. as measured by the $11.6 billion in total revenue we generated in
2011. As of December 31, 2011, we operated 320 retail automotive franchises, of which 166 franchises are located in the U.S. and 154 franchises are located outside of the U.S. The franchises outside the U.S. are located primarily in the U.K. In
2011, we retailed and wholesaled more than 348,000 vehicles. We are diversified geographically, with 63% of our total revenues in 2011 generated in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and 37% generated outside the U.S. We offer approximately 40 vehicle brands,
with 96% of our total retail revenue in 2011 generated from brands of non-U.S. based manufacturers, and 69% generated from premium brands, such as Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Porsche. Each of our dealerships offers a wide selection of new and used
vehicles for sale. In addition to selling new and used vehicles, we generate higher-margin revenue at each of our dealerships through maintenance and repair services and the sale and placement of higher-margin products, such as third-party finance
and insurance products, third-party extended service contracts and replacement and aftermarket automotive products.  We also
own a 9.0% limited partnership interest in Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (“PTL”), a leading global transportation services provider. PTL leases, rents and maintains more than 200,000 vehicles and serves customers in North America, South
America, Europe and Asia and is the largest purchaser of commercial trucks in North America through its approximately 1,000 corporate and 1,900 agent locations. Product lines include full-service leasing, contract maintenance, commercial and
consumer truck rentals, used truck sales, transportation and warehousing management and supply chain management solutions. The general partner of PTL is Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Penske Corporation, which,
together with other wholly-owned subsidiaries of Penske Corporation, owns 41.1% of PTL. The remaining 49.9% of PTL is owned by General Electric Capital Corporation.  We believe our diversified income streams help to mitigate the historical cyclicality found in some elements of the automotive sector. Revenues from higher margin service and parts sales are typically
less cyclical than retail vehicle sales, and generate the largest part of our gross profit. The following graphic shows the percentage of our retail revenues by product area (new vehicle, used vehicle, service and parts, and finance and insurance)
and their respective contribution to our overall gross profit in 2011:   






Revenue Mix
 
Gross Profit Mix







 



 Industry and Outlook  The majority of our revenues are generated in the U.S., which in 2010 was the world’s second largest automotive retail market. In 2011 sales of cars and light trucks were approximately
12.8 million units, which represents an increase of 10% over 2010. The majority of automotive retail sales in the U.S. are generated at approximately 17,700 franchised dealerships as of January 1, 2011, which generated revenues of
approximately $512 billion in 2010, including 53% from new vehicle sales, 33% from used vehicle sales and 14% from service and parts sales. Dealerships also offer a wide range of higher-margin products and services, including extended service
contracts, financing arrangements and credit insurance. The National Automobile Dealers Association figures noted above include finance and insurance revenues within either new or used vehicle sales, as sales of these products are usually
incremental to the sale of a vehicle. 
  1 


Table of Contents
We also operate in Germany and the U.K., which represented the first and third largest
automotive retail markets, respectively, in Western Europe in 2011, and accounted for approximately 40% of the total vehicle sales in Western Europe. Unit sales of automobiles in Western Europe were approximately 12.8 million in 2011, a 1%
decrease compared to 2010. In Germany and the U.K., new car sales were approximately 3.2 million and 1.9 million units, respectively, in 2011.  In the U.S., publicly held automotive retail groups account for less than 10% of total industry revenue. Although significant consolidation has already taken place, the industry remains highly
fragmented, with more than 90% of the U.S. industry’s market share remaining in the hands of smaller regional and independent players. The Western European retail automotive market is similarly fragmented. We believe that further
consolidation in these markets is probable due to the significant capital requirements of maintaining manufacturer facility standards, the limited number of viable alternative exit strategies for dealership owners and the impact of the current
economic and industry environment on smaller, less well capitalized dealership groups.  Generally, new vehicle unit sales are
cyclical and, historically, fluctuations have been influenced by factors such as manufacturer incentives, interest rates, fuel prices, unemployment, inflation, weather, the level of personal discretionary spending, credit availability, consumer
confidence and other general economic factors. However, from a profitability perspective, automotive retailers have historically been less vulnerable than automobile manufacturers and automotive parts suppliers to declines in new vehicle sales. We
believe this is due to the retailers’ more flexible expense structure (a significant portion of the automotive retail industry’s costs are variable) and their diversified revenue streams. In addition, automobile manufacturers may offer
various dealer incentives when sales are slow, which further increases the volatility in profitability for automobile manufacturers and may help to decrease volatility for automotive retailers. 
The level of new automotive unit sales in our markets impacts our results. The new vehicle market and the amount of customer traffic
visiting our dealerships has improved during 2010 and 2011, though the level of automotive sales in the U.S. remains below levels compared to the last 10 years. There are market expectations for continued improvement in the automotive market in the
U.S. over the next several years, although the level of such improvement is uncertain. During 2011, 12.8 million cars and light trucks were sold in the U.S., representing a 10% improvement over the 11.6 million cars and light trucks sold
during the same period last year. We believe the U.S. automotive market will continue to recover based upon industry forecasts from companies such as JD Power, coupled with demand in the marketplace, an aging vehicle population, increased
availability, and lower cost, of credit for consumers, and the planned introduction of new models by many different vehicle brands.  Vehicle registrations in the U.K were 1.94 million in 2011 compared to 2.03 million in 2010, representing a decline of 4.4%. According to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders
(www.smmt.co.uk), the U.K. market is expected to be challenging in 2012 as the economic outlook remains uncertain, however, in 2011, vehicle registrations of premium brands such as Audi, Bentley, BMW, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lexus, Mercedes-Benz,
MINI and Porsche increased, indicating that registrations of premium/luxury vehicles have been more resilient than the market as a whole.  For a more detailed discussion of our financial and operating results, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 
Long-Term Business Strategy  Our long-term business strategy focuses on several key areas in an effort to foster long-term relationships with our customers. The key areas of our long-term strategy follow: 
 


 
•
 
 Attract, develop, and empower associates to grow our business; 
 


 
•
 
 Offer outstanding brands in premium facilities and facilitate superior customer service; 
 


 
•
 
 Diversification; 
  2 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Expand revenues at existing locations and increase higher-margin businesses; 
 


 
•
 
 Grow through targeted acquisitions;   


 
•
 
 Enhance customer satisfaction;   


 
•
 
 Leverage scale and implement “best practices;” and 
 


 
•
 
 Leverage Internet Marketing  Attract, Develop, and Empower Associates to Grow our Business  We
view our local dealership general managers and customer-facing associates as one of our most important assets. Each dealership or group of dealerships has independent operational and financial management responsible for day-to-day operations. We
believe experienced local managers are better qualified to make day-to-day decisions concerning the successful operation of a dealership and can be more responsive to our customers’ needs. We seek local dealership management that not only has
experience in the automotive industry, but is also familiar with the local dealership’s market. We also have regional management that oversees operations at the individual dealerships and supports the dealerships operationally and
administratively. We invest for future growth and offer outstanding brands and facilities which we believe attracts outstanding talent. We believe attracting the best talent to our retail dealership operations and allowing our associates to make
business decisions at the local level helps to foster long-term growth through increased repeat and referral business. 
Offer Outstanding Brands in Premium Facilities and Facilitate Superior Customer Service 
We offer outstanding brands in premium facilities and believe offering our customers a superior customer service experience will generate
repeat and referral business and will help to foster a loyal and dedicated customer base. Customer satisfaction is measured at each of our dealerships on a monthly, quarterly, and/or yearly basis by the manufacturers we represent, and we compensate
our dealership employees, in part, based on their performance in such rankings.  We have the highest percentage of revenues
from foreign and luxury brands among the U.S. based publicly-traded automotive retailers. We believe luxury and foreign brands will continue to offer us the opportunity to generate same-store growth, including higher margin service and parts
sales. In 2011, our revenue mix consists of 69% related to premium brands, 27% related to volume foreign brands, and 4% relating to brands of U.S. based manufacturers. 
  3 


Table of Contents
The following chart reflects our percentage of total revenues by brand in 2011: 
  

 We sell and service outstanding automotive brands in our premium facilities, in attractive geographic
markets. Where advantageous, we attempt to aggregate our dealerships in a campus setting in order to build a destination location for our customers, which we believe helps to drive increased customer traffic to each of the brands at the location.
This strategy also creates an opportunity to reduce personnel expenses, consolidate advertising and administrative expenses and leverage operating expenses over a larger base of dealerships. Our dealerships have generally achieved new unit vehicle
sales that are significantly higher than industry averages for the brands we sell.  Diversification 
Our business benefits from our diversified revenue mix, including the multiple revenue streams in a traditional automotive dealership (new
vehicles, used vehicles, finance and insurance, and service and parts operations), and returns relating to our joint venture investments, which we believe helps to mitigate the cyclicality that has historically impacted some elements of the
automotive sector. We are further diversified within our retail automotive operations due to our brand mix and geographical dispersion.  Diversification Outside the U.S.  One of the unique attributes of
our operations versus our peers is our diversification outside the U.S. Approximately 37% of our consolidated revenue during 2011 was generated outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico, predominately in the U.K. The U.K. is the third largest retail
automotive market in Western Europe. Our brand mix in the U.K. is predominantly premium. We believe that as of December 31, 2011, we were among the largest Audi, Bentley, BMW, Ferrari, Land Rover, Lexus, Mercedes-Benz, Maserati and Porsche
dealers in the U.K. based on new unit sales. 
  4 


Table of Contents

Additionally, we operate a number of dealerships in Germany, Western Europe’s largest retail automotive market, including through joint ventures with experienced local partners, which sell
and service Audi, BMW, Lexus, MINI, Porsche, Toyota, Volkswagen and various other premium brands.  Penske Truck Leasing
 We hold a 9.0% limited partnership interest in PTL. PTL leases, rents and maintains more than 200,000 vehicles and
serves customers in North America, South America, Europe and Asia and is one of the largest purchasers of commercial trucks in North America through its approximately 1,000 corporate and 1,900 agent locations. Product lines include full-service
leasing, contract maintenance, commercial and consumer truck rentals, used truck sales, transportation and warehousing management and supply chain management solutions. We currently expect to continue to receive annual pro-rata cash distributions of
a portion of the partnership’s profits, and we expect to realize U.S. tax savings from the partnership.  Expand
Revenues at Existing Locations and Increase Higher-Margin Businesses  Increase Same-Store Sales. We believe
our emphasis on superior customer service and premium facilities will contribute to increases in same-store sales over time. We have added a significant number of incremental service bays in recent years in order to better accommodate our customers
and further enhance our higher-margin service and parts revenues. We have employed a strategy called “Retail First” to increase our same-store used vehicle sales. Under this approach, we have increased our efforts to retail a vehicle
to a consumer before attempting to dispose of it through the traditional wholesale process. We believe this approach has helped to increase the number of used retail vehicle sales in 2011. 
Grow Finance, Insurance, and Other Aftermarket Revenues. Each sale of a vehicle provides us the opportunity to assist in
financing the sale of a vehicle, to sell the customer an extended service contract or other insurance product, and to sell aftermarket products, such as security systems and protective coatings. In order to improve our finance and insurance
business, we focus on enhancing and standardizing our salesperson training programs through a menu-driven product offering, and strengthening our product offerings.  Expand Service and Parts and Collision Repair Revenues. Today’s vehicles are increasingly complex and require sophisticated equipment and specially trained technicians to perform certain
services. Unlike independent service shops, our dealerships are authorized to perform this work under warranties provided by manufacturers. We believe that our brand mix and the complexity of today’s vehicles, combined with our investment in
expanded service facilities and our focus on customer service, will contribute to increases in our service and parts revenue. We also operate 29 collision repair centers which are integrated with local dealership operations. We also offer rapid
repair services such as paint-less dent repair, headlight reconditioning, wheel repairs, tire sales and windshield replacement at most of our facilities in order to offer our customers the convenience of one-stop shopping for all of their automotive
requirements.  Grow through Targeted Acquisitions 
We believe that attractive acquisition opportunities exist for well-capitalized dealership groups with experience in identifying,
acquiring and integrating dealerships. The fragmented automotive retail market provides us with significant growth opportunities in our markets. We generally seek to acquire dealerships with high-growth automotive brands in highly concentrated or
growing demographic areas that will benefit from our management expertise, manufacturer relations and scale of operations, as well as smaller, single location dealerships that can be effectively integrated into our existing operations. Over time, we
have also been awarded new franchises from various manufacturers. In 2011, we acquired 7 franchises which we estimate will generate approximately $500 million of revenue on an annualized basis. In addition, in January 2012, we acquired the Agnew
Group of dealerships in the U.K. which we expect to generate approximately $500 million of additional annualized revenues. We also divested or classified as discontinued operations 16 franchises that generated approximately $300 million of revenue
on an annualized basis in 2011. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Enhance Customer Satisfaction 
We strive for superior customer satisfaction. By offering outstanding brands in premium facilities, “one-stop” shopping
convenience in our aggregated facilities, and a well-trained and knowledgeable sales staff, we aim to forge lasting relationships with our customers, enhance our reputation in the community, and create the opportunity for significant repeat and
referral business. We monitor customer satisfaction data accumulated by manufacturers to track the performance of dealership operations, and incent our personnel to provide exceptional customer service and customer loyalty. 
Leverage Scale and Implement “Best Practices” 
We seek to build scale in many of the markets where we have dealership operations. Our desire is to reduce or eliminate redundant
administrative costs such as accounting, information technology systems and other general administrative costs. In addition, we seek to leverage our industry knowledge and experience to foster communication and cooperation between like brand
dealerships throughout our organization. Senior management and dealership management meet regularly to review dealership operating performance, examine industry trends, and implement operating improvements. Key financial information is discussed and
compared between dealerships across all markets. This frequent interaction facilitates implementation of successful strategies throughout the organization.  Leverage Internet Marketing  We intend to leverage the internet to
attract and retain customers as we believe the majority of our customers consult the Internet for information when shopping for a vehicle. In order to attract customers and enhance our customer service, each of our dealerships maintains its own
website. All of our dealership websites are presented in common formats (except where otherwise required by manufacturers) which helps to minimize costs and provides a consistent image across dealerships. In addition, many automotive
manufacturers’ websites, and our corporate websites, provide links to our dealership websites and, in the U.K., manufacturers also provide a website for the dealership.  In addition, we list substantially all our U.S. and U.K. vehicle inventory on www.PenskeCars.com or www.sytner.co.uk, respectively. These websites are designed to make it easy for consumers,
employees and partners to view and compare over 30,000 new, certified and pre-owned vehicles. These sites, together with our dealership websites, provide consumers a simple method to schedule maintenance and repair services at their local Penske
Automotive dealership and view extensive vehicle information, including photos, prices, promotions, videos and third party vehicle history reports for pre-owned vehicles.  We attempt to obtain high visibility for these websites by utilizing strategies to obtain high search engine relevance on sites like Google and Bing. We also encourage interaction with our customers on
social media sites such as Facebook and YouTube to bring new customers to our dealership and enhance repeat and referral business. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Acquisitions  We routinely acquire and dispose of franchises. Our financial statements include the results of operations of acquired dealerships from the date of acquisition. The following table sets forth information
with respect to our current dealerships that were acquired or opened from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2011:   










 Dealership
  
Date Openedor Acquired
  
 Location
  
 Franchises

 U.S.
  

  

  


 Lamborghini Scottsdale
  
04/09
  
Phoenix, AZ
  
Lamborghini

 Audi Turnersville
  
06/09
  
Turnersville, NJ
  
Audi

 Commonwealth Audi Volkswagen
  
01/10
  
Santa Ana, CA
  
Audi, Volkswagen

 Hudson Chrysler Jeep Dodge
  
02/10
  
Jersey City, NJ
  
Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge

 Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of Chandler
  
02/10
  
Chandler, AZ
  
Sprinter

 Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of San Diego
  
03/10
  
San Diego, CA
  
Sprinter

 MINI of Tempe
  
03/10
  
Tempe, AZ
  
MINI

 MINI of Austin
  
04/10
  
Austin, TX
  
MINI

 Audi Chantilly
  
04/10
  
Chantilly, VA
  
Audi

 Mercedes-Benz Chantilly
  
04/10
  
Chantilly, VA
  
Mercedes-Benz

 Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of Chantilly
  
04/10
  
Chantilly, VA
  
Sprinter

 Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of Warwick
  
04/10
  
Warwick, RI
  
Sprinter

 Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of Fairfield
  
04/10
  
Fairfield, CT
  
Sprinter

 MINI of San Diego
  
09/10
  
San Diego, CA
  
MINI

 Audi Bedford
  
12/10
  
Bedford, OH
  
Audi

 Porsche of Bedford
  
12/10
  
Bedford, OH
  
Porsche

 Lotus Scottsdale
  
02/11
  
Scottsdale, AZ
  
Lotus

 Fiat-Ponce
  
05/11
  
Ponce, PR
  
Fiat

 Audi Willoughby
  
03/11
  
Willoughby, OH
  
Audi

 Crevier BMW/MINI
  
07/11
  
Santa Ana, CA
  
BMW, MINI

 Mercedes-Benz of Greenwich
  
07/11
  
Greenwich, CT
  
Mercedes-Benz

 Maybach of Greenwich
  
07/11
  
Greenwich, CT
  
Maybach

 Fiat of Fayetteville
  
12/11
  
Fayetteville, AR
  
Fiat

 Fiat Mayaguez
  
12/11
  
Mayaguez, PR
  
Fiat






 Outside the U.S.
  

  

  


 Porsche Centre Leicester
  
03/09
  
Leicester, England
  
Porsche

 Porsche Centre Solihull
  
03/09
  
West Midlands, England
  
Porsche

 Graypaul Birmingham
  
03/09
  
Worcestershire, England
  
Ferrari/Maserati

 Guy Salmon Land Rover Bristol
  
09/09
  
Bristol, England
  
Land Rover

 Autohaus Augsburg
  
03/10
  
Augsburg, Germany
  
BMW(2), MINI

 smart Northampton
  
07/10
  
Northampton, England
  
smart

 Sytner Maidenhead (BMW/MINI)
  
02/11
  
Maidenhead, England
  
BMW, MINI

 McLaren Manchester
  
07/11
  
Manchester, England
  
McLaren
 In January 2012, we acquired 13 additional franchises in the United Kingdom formerly part of the Isaac
Agnew dealership group.  In 2011, 2010, and 2009, we disposed of 16, 7, and 7 franchises, respectively, that we believe were
not integral to our strategy or operations. We expect to continue to pursue acquisitions and selected dispositions in the future. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Dealership Operations 
Franchises. Following are summaries of our franchises by location and our dealership mix by franchise as of December 31,
2011:   




















 Location
  
 Franchises
  
 Franchises
  
U.S.
 
  
Non-U.S.
 
  
Total
 

 Arizona
  
23
  
Toyota/Lexus/Scion
  
 
33
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
46
  

 Arkansas
  
11
  
BMW/MINI
  
 
17
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
52
  

 California
  
27
  
Mercedes-Benz/Sprinter/smart
  
 
20
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
40
  

 Connecticut
  
8
  
Honda/Acura
  
 
26
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
28
  

 Florida
  
8
  
Chrysler/Jeep/Dodge/Fiat
  
 
15
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
30
  

 Georgia
  
4
  
Jaguar
  
 
1
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
8
  

 Indiana
  
2
  
Land Rover
  
 
1
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
13
  

 Michigan
  
2
  
Audi/Volkswagen/Bentley
  
 
16
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
36
  

 Minnesota
  
2
  
Ferrari/Maserati
  
 
6
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
18
  

 Nevada
  
2
  
Ford
  
 
1
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1
  

 New Jersey
  
22
  
Porsche
  
 
6
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
13
  

 New York
  
1
  
Cadillac/Chevrolet
  
 
6
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
6
  

 Ohio
  
9
  
Nissan/Infiniti
  
 
7
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7
  

 Puerto Rico
  
15
  
Others
  
 
11
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
22
  


  

  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Rhode Island
  
13
  
Total
  
 
166
  
  
 
154
  
  
 
320
  


  

  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Tennessee
  
2
  



 Texas
  
8
  

 Virginia
  
7
  


  
  
  

 Total U.S.
  
166
  

 U.K.
  
142
  

 Germany
  
12
  


  
  
  

 Total Foreign
  
154
  


  
  
  

 Total Worldwide
  
320
  


  
  
  
 New Vehicle Retail Sales. In 2011, we sold 154,829 new vehicles which generated 53% of our
retail revenue and 27% of our retail gross profit. We sell approximately 40 brands of domestic and import family, sports and premium cars, light trucks and sport utility vehicles in the U.S., Puerto Rico, the U.K. and Germany. New vehicles are
typically acquired by dealerships directly from the manufacturer. We strive to maintain outstanding relations with the automotive manufacturers, based in part on our long-term presence in the automotive retail market, our commitment to providing
premium facilities, the reputation of our management team and the consistent high sales volume at our dealerships. Our dealerships finance the purchase of most new vehicles from the manufacturers through floor plan financing provided primarily by
various manufacturers’ captive finance companies.  Used Vehicle Retail Sales. In 2011, we sold 129,652 used vehicles, which
generated 31% of our retail revenue and 14% of our retail gross profit. We acquire used vehicles from various sources, including auctions open only to authorized new vehicle dealers, public auctions, trade-ins from consumers in connection with their
purchase of a new vehicle from us and lease expirations or terminations. To improve customer confidence in our used vehicle inventory, each of our dealerships participates in all available manufacturer certification processes for used vehicles. If
certification is obtained, the used vehicle owner is typically provided benefits and warranties similar to those offered to new vehicle owners by the applicable manufacturer. Several of our dealerships have implemented software tools which assist in
procuring and selling used vehicles. Through our scale in certain U.S. markets, we have implemented closed-bid auctions that allow us to bring a large number of vehicles we do not intend to retail to a central market for other dealers or wholesalers
to purchase. In the U.K., we offer used vehicles to wholesalers and other dealers via online auction. We have employed a strategy called “Retail First” to increase our same-store used vehicle sales. Under this approach, we have
increased our efforts to retail a vehicle 
  8 


Table of Contents

to a consumer before attempting to dispose of it through the traditional wholesale process. We believe this approach has helped to increase the number of used retail vehicles sales in 2011.
We believe these strategies have resulted in greater operating efficiency and helped to reduce costs associated with maintaining optimal inventories.  Vehicle Finance, Extended Service and Insurance Sales. Finance and insurance sales represented 3% of our retail revenue and 15% of our retail gross profit in 2011. At our customers’
option, our dealerships can arrange third-party financing or leasing in connection with vehicle purchases. We typically receive a portion of the cost of the financing or leasing paid by the customer for each transaction as a fee. While these
services are generally non-recourse to us, we are subject to chargebacks in certain circumstances, such as default under a financing arrangement or prepayment. These chargebacks vary by finance product but typically are limited to the fee we
receive.  We also offer our customers various vehicle warranty and extended protection products, including extended service
contracts, maintenance programs, guaranteed auto protection (known as “GAP,” this protection covers the shortfall between a customer’s loan balance and insurance payoff in the event of a total loss), lease “wear and tear”
insurance and theft protection products. The extended service contracts and other products that our dealerships currently offer to customers are underwritten by independent third parties, including the vehicle manufacturers’ captive finance
subsidiaries. Similar to finance transactions, we are subject to chargebacks relating to fees earned in connection with the sale of certain extended protection products. We also offer for sale other aftermarket products, including security systems
and protective coatings.  We offer finance and insurance products using a “menu” process, which is designed to
ensure that we offer our customers a complete range of finance, insurance, protection, and other aftermarket products in a transparent manner. We provide training to our finance and insurance personnel to help assure compliance with internal
policies and procedures, as well as applicable state regulations.  Service and Parts Sales. Service and parts
sales represented 13% of our retail revenue and 44% of our retail gross profit in 2011. We generate service and parts sales in connection with warranty and non-warranty work performed at each of our dealerships. We believe our service and parts
revenues benefit from the increasingly complex technology used in vehicles that makes it difficult for independent repair facilities to maintain and repair today’s automobiles. 
A goal of each of our dealerships is to make each vehicle purchaser a customer of our service and parts department. Our dealerships keep
detailed records of our customers’ maintenance and service histories, and many dealerships send reminders to customers when vehicles are due for periodic maintenance or service. Many of our dealerships have extended evening and weekend service
hours for the convenience of our customers. We also offer rapid repair services such as paint-less dent repair, headlight reconditioning, wheel repairs, tire sales and windshield replacement at most of our facilities in order to offer our customers
the convenience of one-stop shopping for all of their automotive requirements. We also operate 29 collision repair centers, each of which is operated as an integral part of our dealership operations. 
smart USA. Through June 30, 2011, smart USA Distributor LLC, our former wholly-owned subsidiary, was the exclusive
distributor of the smart fortwo vehicle in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and was responsible for maintaining a vehicle dealership network. On June 30, 2011, smart USA completed the sale of certain assets and the transfer of certain liabilities
relating to the distribution rights, management, sales and marketing activities of smart USA to Daimler Vehicle Innovations LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Mercedes-Benz USA.  Penske Truck Leasing  We hold a 9.0% limited partnership interest in
Penske Truck Leasing (“PTL”). PTL, which was founded more than 40 years ago, provides transportation services and supply chain management solutions in North America. PTL is capable of meeting customers’ needs at every point in the
supply chain with one of the 
  9 


Table of Contents

industry’s most comprehensive offerings, including full-service leasing, contract maintenance, commercial and consumer truck rentals, used truck sales, transportation and warehousing
management and supply chain management solutions. PTL has a highly diversified customer base ranging from individual consumers to multi-national corporations across industries such as food and beverage, manufacturing, transportation, automotive,
healthcare, and retail.  Leasing, Rental & Contract Maintenance represents PTL’s
largest business. For commercial customers, PTL provides full-service leasing and rental utilizing a fleet of approximately 130,000 company owned vehicles and contract maintenance on a fleet of approximately 70,000 customer owned vehicles. Customers
outsource vehicle operations to PTL in order to reduce the complexity and cost of vehicle ownership. Under a typical full-service lease, PTL provides and fully maintains the vehicle, which has been specifically configured for and approved by the
customer. Full-service lease terms generally range from four to seven years on tractors and trucks and from six to ten years on trailers.  The services provided under full-service lease and contract maintenance generally include preventive maintenance, emergency road service, fleet services, safety programs, and nationwide fuel services
through its network of company operated facilities and a nationwide network of independent truck stops. PTL’s rental operations offer short term availability of tractors, trucks and trailers, typically to accommodate seasonal, emergency and
other temporary needs. A significant portion of these rentals are to existing full-service lease and contract maintenance customers seeking flexibility in their fleet management. PTL has a network of nearly 700 locations throughout North America to
provide full-service leasing, rental and contract maintenance services to customers.  For consumer customers,
PTL provides short term rental of light and medium duty trucks on a one-way and local basis, typically to transport household goods. Customers typically include individuals seeking a do-it-yourself solution to their moving needs. PTL's fleet
consists of late model vehicles ranging in size from small vans to 26-foot trucks. Consumer rentals are conducted through approximately 1,900 independent rental agents and also through PTL’s leasing and rental facilities. 
Logistics. PTL’s logistics business offers an extensive variety of services, such as dedicated contract
carriage, distribution center management, transportation management and acting as the lead logistics provider for its customers. PTL provides solutions to its customers for many aspects of the supply chain, including inbound material flow, handling
and packaging, inventory management, distribution and technology solutions, and sourcing of third party carriers. These offerings are available individually or in any combination and often involve PTL associates performing services at the
customer’s location. By offering a scalable series of products and services to its customers, PTL can manage all or part of its customer’s supply chain. PTL utilizes specialized software that enables real-time fleet visibility and provides
reporting metrics, giving customers detailed information on fuel economy and other critical supply chain costs. 
  10 


Table of Contents
PAG Dealership Locations 
The following is a list of all of our dealerships as of December 31, 2011:  U.S. DEALERSHIPS   








 ARIZONA Acura
North Scottsdale Audi of Chandler
Audi North Scottsdale Bentley
Scottsdale BMW North Scottsdale
Bugatti Scottsdale Jaguar North
Scottsdale Lamborghini Scottsdale
Land Rover North Scottsdale Lexus of
Chandler Lotus Scottsdale
Mercedes-Benz of Chandler MINI North
Scottsdale MINI of Tempe Porsche
North Scottsdale Rolls-Royce Scottsdale
Scottsdale Aston Martin Scottsdale Ferrari
Maserati Scottsdale Lexus smart
center Chandler Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of Chandler Tempe Honda Volkswagen North Scottsdale ARKANSAS Acura of Fayetteville
Chevrolet of Fayetteville Fiat of
Fayetteville Honda of Fayetteville
Landers Chevrolet Landers Chrysler Jeep
Dodge Landers Ford Toyota-Scion of
Fayetteville CALIFORNIA
Acura of Escondido Audi Escondido
Audi Stevens Creek Toyota Scion of
Clovis BMW of San Diego Capitol
Honda Commonwealth Audi Commonwealth
Volkswagen Crevier BMW Creview
MINI Honda Mission Valley
  
 Honda North Honda of
Escondido Kearny Mesa Acura Kearny
Mesa Toyota-Scion Lexus Kearny Mesa
Los Gatos Acura Marin Honda
MINI of San Diego Mazda of Escondido
Mercedes-Benz of San Diego Peter Pan
BMW Porsche of Stevens Creek smart
center San Diego Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of San Diego CONNECTICUT Audi of Fairfield
Honda of Danbury Mercedes-Benz of
Fairfield Mercedes-Benz of Greenwich
Maybach of Greenwich Porsche of
Fairfield smart center Fairfield
Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of Fairfield
FLORIDA Central Florida
Toyota-Scion Royal Palm Mazda Palm
Beach Toyota-Scion Royal Palm Toyota-Scion Royal Palm Nissan GEORGIA Atlanta Toyota-Scion Honda Mall of Georgia United BMW of Gwinnett United BMW of Roswell
INDIANA Penske
Chevrolet Penske Honda
MICHIGAN Honda
Bloomfield Rinke Cadillac
MINNESOTA Motorwerks
BMW Motorwerks MINI
  
 NEW JERSEY Acura
of Turnersville Audi Turnersville BMW
of Turnersville Chevrolet Cadillac of Turnersville BMW of Tenafly Lexus of Edison Ferrari Maserati of Central New Jersey Gateway Toyota-Scion
Honda of Turnersville Hudson Chrysler Jeep
Dodge Hudson Nissan Hudson
Toyota-Scion Hyundai of Turnersville
Lexus of Bridgewater Nissan of
Turnersville Toyota-Scion of Turnersville NEW YORK Honda of Nanuet OHIO Audi Bedford Audi Willoughby Honda of Mentor Infiniti of Bedford Mercedes-Benz of Bedford
Porsche of Beachwood smart center
Bedford Toyota-Scion of Bedford
RHODE ISLAND Acura of
Warwick Audi Warwick Bentley
Providence BMW of Warwick Infiniti of
Warwick Lexus of Warwick
Mercedes-Benz of Warwick MINI of
Warwick Nissan West Warwick Porsche
of Warwick smart center Warwick
Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of Warwick
TENNESSEE Wolfchase
Toyota-Scion
  11 


Table of Contents








 TEXAS BMW of
Austin Honda of Spring Spring Branch
Honda MINI of Austin Round Rock
Honda Round Rock Hyundai Round Rock
Toyota-Scion VIRGINIA
Audi Chantilly
  
 Audi of Tysons Corner
Mercedes-Benz Chantilly Mercedes-Benz of Tysons
Corner Porsche of Tysons Corner smart
center Tysons Corner Sprinter @ Mercedes-Benz of Chantilly PUERTO RICO Lexus de San Juan
Triangle Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep de
  
 Ponce Triangle Chrysler,
Dodge, Jeep, del Oeste Triangle Honda 65 de Infanteria Triangle Honda-Suzuki de Ponce Triangle Nissan del Oeste
Triangle Toyota-Scion de San Juan Triangle
Fiat del Oeste Triangle Fiat de Ponce
 NON-U.S. DEALERSHIPS   








U.K.
  

  


 Audi Bradford
Audi Derby Audi Harrogate
Audi Huddersfield Audi Leeds
Audi Leicester Audi Mayfair
Audi Nottingham Audi Reading
Audi Slough Audi Wakefield
Audi West London Audi
Bentley Bentley
Birmingham Bentley Edinburgh Bentley
Leicester Bentley Manchester
BMW/MINI Sytner
Birmingham Sytner Cardiff Sytner
Chigwell Sytner Coventry Sytner
Docklands Sytner Harold Wood Sytner
High Wycombe Sytner Leicester Sytner
Maidenhead Sytner Newport Sytner
Nottingham Sytner Oldbury Sytner
Sheffield Sytner Solihull Sytner
Sunningdale Sytner Sutton
  
 Chrysler/Jeep/Dodge Kings Cheltenham & Gloucester Kings Manchester Kings Newcastle Kings Swindon Kings Teesside Ferrari/Maserati Ferrari Classic Parts
Graypaul Birmingham Graypaul
Edinburgh Graypaul Nottingham
Maranello Egham Ferrari/Maserati
Honda Honda Gatwick
Honda Redhill Jaguar/Land
Rover Guy Salmon Jaguar Coventry Guy Salmon Jaguar/Land Rover Ascot Guy Salmon Jaguar/Land Rover
Gatwick Guy Salmon Jaguar/Land Rover Maidstone Guy Salmon Jaguar/Land Rover Thames Ditton Guy Salmon Jaguar Northampton
Guy Salmon Jaguar Oxford Guy Salmon Land Rover
Bristol Guy Salmon Land Rover Coventry
Guy Salmon Land Rover Knutsford Guy Salmon Land
Rover Portsmouth Guy Salmon Land Rover Sheffield Guy Salmon Land Rover Stockport Guy Salmon Land Rover 
Stratford-upon-Avon
Guy Salmon Land Rover Wakefield
  
 Lamborghini
Lamborghini Birmingham Lamborghini
Edinburgh Lexus
Lexus Birmingham Lexus Bristol
Lexus Cardiff Lexus Leicester
Lexus Milton Keynes
McLaren McLaren
Manchester Mercedes-Benz/smart Mercedes-Benz of Bath Mercedes-Benz of Bedford
Mercedes-Benz of Carlisle Mercedes-Benz of
Cheltenham and Gloucester Mercedes-Benz of Newbury Mercedes-Benz/smart of Northampton Mercedes-Benz of Sunderland
Mercedes-Benz of Swindon
Mercedes-Benz of Weston-Super-Mare
Mercedes-Benz/smart of Bristol
Mercedes-Benz/smart of Milton Keynes Mercedes-Benz/smart of Newcastle Mercedes-Benz/smart of Teesside
Porsche Porsche Centre
Edinburgh Porsche Centre Glasgow
Porsche Centre Leicester Porsche Centre
Mid-Sussex Porsche Centre Silverstone
Porsche Centre Solihull
Rolls-Royce Rolls-Royce Motor Cars
Manchester Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Sunningdale
  12 


Table of Contents








 Toyota Toyota
World Birmingham Toyota World Bridgend
Toyota World Bristol North Toyota World Bristol
South Toyota World Cardiff Toyota
World Newport Toyota World Solihull
Toyota World Tamworth 
Volkswagen SEAT
Huddersfield VW Harrogate VW
Huddersfield VW Leeds
  
 Volvo Tollbar
Warwick GERMANY
Autohaus Augsburg (Goggingen) (BMW)
Autohaus Augsburg (Lechhausen) (BMW) Autohaus Augsburg (Stadtmitte) (MINI) Penske Sportwagenzentrum (Porsche)
Tamsen, Bremen (Aston Martin, Bentley, Ferrari, Maserati) Tamsen, Hamburg (Aston Martin, Ferrari, Lamborghini, Maserati)
  

 We also own 50% of the following dealerships: 
 






 GERMANY Aix
Automobile (Toyota) Audi Zentrum Aachen
Autohaus Nix (Eschborn) (Toyota) Autohaus Krings
(Volkswagen) Autohaus Nix (Frankfurt) (Toyota, Lexus) Autohaus Nix (Offenbach) (Toyota, Lexus) Autohaus Nix (Wachtersbach) (Toyota)
Autohaus Piper (Skoda) Autohaus Piper Aachen
(Volkswagen) Autohaus Sirries (Volkswagen, Audi) J-S Auto Park Stolberg (Volkswagen) Jacobs Automobile Düren (Volkswagen, Audi)
Jacobs Automobile Zweighieder Lassung
Geilenkirehen (Volkswagen, Audi) Lexus Forum
Frankfort TCD (Toyota) Volkswagen
Zentrum Aachen Wolff & Meir (Volkswagen, Skoda) Zabka Automobile (Volkswagen, Audi)
 
 U.S. Penske Wynn
Ferrari Maserati (Nevada) MAX BMW Motorcycles (Connecticut) MAX BMW Motorcycles (New Hampshire) MAX BMW Motorcycles (New York)
 Information Technology  We consolidate financial, accounting and operational data received from our U.S. dealers through a private communications network. Dealership data is gathered and processed through individual dealer
systems utilizing a common management system licensed from a third-party. Each dealership is allowed to tailor the operational capabilities of that system locally, but we require that they follow our standardized accounting procedures. Our database
technology allows us to extract and aggregate information from the system in a consistent format to generate consolidating financial and operational data. The system also allows us to access detailed information for each dealership
individually, as a group, or on a consolidated basis. Information we can access includes, among other things, inventory, cash, unit sales, the mix of new and used vehicle sales and sales of aftermarket products and services. Our ability to access
this data allows us to continually analyze these dealerships’ results of operations and financial position so as to identify areas for improvement. Our technology and processes also enable us to quickly integrate dealerships or dealership
groups we acquire in the U.S. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Our U.K. dealership financial, accounting and operational data is processed through a
standard management system licensed from a third-party, except when otherwise required by the manufacturer. Financial and operational information is aggregated following U.S. policies and accounting requirements, and is reported in our
U.S. reporting format to ensure consistency of results among our worldwide operations. Similar to the U.S., the U.K. technology and processes enable us to continually analyze these dealerships’ results of operations and financial position
so as to identify areas for improvement and to quickly integrate dealerships or dealership groups we acquire in the U.K.  Marketing
 Our advertising and marketing efforts are focused at the local market level, with the aim of building our retail
operations. We utilize many different media for our marketing activities, focusing on the Internet and other digital media, including our own websites such as www.PenskeCars.com and www.sytner.co.uk as discussed above under
“Leverage Internet Marketing”. We also utilize newspaper, direct mail, magazine, television, and radio advertising. Automobile manufacturers supplement our local and regional advertising efforts through large advertising campaigns
promoting their brands and promoting attractive financing packages and other incentive programs they may offer. In an effort to realize increased efficiencies, we are focusing on common marketing metrics and business practices across our
dealerships, as well as negotiating enterprise arrangements for targeted marketing resources.  Agreements with Vehicle Manufacturers
 We operate our dealerships under separate agreements with the manufacturers or distributors of each brand of vehicle sold
at that dealership. These agreements are typical throughout the industry and may contain provisions and standards governing almost every aspect of the dealership, including ownership, management, personnel, training, maintenance of a minimum of
working capital, net worth requirements, maintenance of minimum lines of credit, advertising and marketing activities, facilities, signs, products and services, maintenance of minimum amounts of insurance, achievement of minimum customer service
standards and monthly financial reporting. In addition, the General Manager and/or the owner of a dealership typically cannot be changed without the manufacturer’s consent. In exchange for complying with these provisions and standards, we are
granted the non-exclusive right to sell the manufacturer’s or distributors brand of vehicles and related parts and warranty services at our dealership. The agreements also grant us a non-exclusive license to use each manufacturer’s
trademarks, service marks and designs in connection with our sales and service of its brand at our dealership.  Some of our
agreements, including those with BMW, Honda, Mercedes-Benz and Toyota, expire after a specified period of time ranging from one to six years. Manufacturers have generally not terminated our franchise agreements, and our franchise agreements with
fixed terms have typically been renewed without substantial cost. We currently expect the manufacturers to renew all of our franchise agreements as they expire. In addition, certain agreements with the manufacturers limit the total number of
dealerships of that brand that we may own in a particular geographic area and, in some cases, limit the total number of their vehicles that we may sell as a percentage of a particular manufacturer’s overall sales. Manufacturers may also limit
the ownership of stores in contiguous markets. To date, we have reached the limit of the number of Lexus dealerships we may own in the U.S., and we have reached certain geographical limitations with certain manufacturers in the U.S. and U.K. Where
these limits are reached, we cannot acquire additional franchises of those brands in the relevant market unless we can negotiate modifications to the agreements. We may not be able to negotiate any such modifications. 
Many of these agreements also grant the manufacturer or distributor a security interest in the vehicles and/or parts sold by them to the
dealership, as well as other dealership assets, and permit them to terminate or not renew the agreement for a variety of causes, including failure to adequately operate the dealership, insolvency or bankruptcy, impairment of the dealer’s
reputation or financial standing, changes in the dealership’s management, owners or location without consent, sales of the dealership’s assets without consent, failure to maintain adequate

  14 


Table of Contents

working capital or floor plan financing, changes in the dealership’s financial or other condition, failure to submit required information to them on a timely basis, failure to have any
permit or license necessary to operate the dealership, and material breaches of other provisions of the agreement. In the U.S., these termination rights are subject to state franchise laws that limit a manufacturer’s right to terminate a
franchise. In the U.K., we operate without such local franchise law protection (see “Regulation” below).  Our
agreements with manufacturers or distributors usually give them the right, in some circumstances (including upon a merger, sale, or change of control of the company, or in some cases a material change in our business or capital structure), to
acquire from us, at fair market value, the dealerships. For example, our agreement with General Motors provides that, upon a proposed purchase of 20% or more of our voting stock by any new person or entity or another manufacturer (subject to certain
exceptions), an extraordinary corporate transaction (such as a merger, reorganization or sale of a material amount of assets) or a change of control of our board of directors, General Motors has the right to acquire all assets, properties and
business of any General Motors dealership owned by us for fair value. Some of our agreements with other major manufacturers, including Honda and Toyota, contain provisions similar to the General Motors provisions. 
Competition  The
automotive retail industry is currently served by franchised automotive dealerships, independent used vehicle dealerships and individual consumers who sell used vehicles in private transactions. 
For new vehicle sales, we compete primarily with other franchised dealers in each of our marketing areas, relying on our premium
facilities, advertising and merchandising, management experience, sales expertise, service reputation and the location of our dealerships to attract and retain customers. Each of our markets may include a number of well-capitalized competitors,
including in certain instances dealerships owned by automotive manufacturers and national and regional automotive retail chains. We also compete with dealers that sell the same brands of new vehicles that we sell and with dealers that sell other
brands of new vehicles that we do not represent in a particular market. Our new vehicle dealership competitors have franchise agreements which gives them access to new vehicles on the same terms as us. Automotive dealers also face competition in the
sale of new vehicles from on-line purchasing services and warehouse clubs. With respect to arranging financing for our customers’ vehicle purchases, we compete with a broad range of financial institutions such as banks and local credit unions.
 For used vehicle sales, we compete with other franchised dealers, independent used vehicle dealers, automobile rental
agencies, on-line purchasing services, private parties and used vehicle “superstores” for the procurement and resale of used vehicles.  We believe that the principal factors consumers consider when determining where to purchase a vehicle are the marketing campaigns conducted by manufacturers, the ability of dealerships to offer a wide
selection of the most popular vehicles, the location of dealerships and the quality of the customer experience. Other factors include customer preference for particular brands of automobiles, pricing (including manufacturer rebates and other special
offers) and warranties. We believe that our dealerships are competitive in all of these areas.  We compete with other
franchised dealers to perform warranty repairs and with other automotive dealers, franchised and non-franchised service center chains, and independent garages for non-warranty repair and routine maintenance business. We compete with other automotive
dealers, service stores and auto parts retailers in our parts operations. We believe that the principal factors consumers consider when determining where to purchase vehicle parts and service are price, the use of factory-approved replacement parts,
facility location, the familiarity with a manufacturer’s brands and the quality of customer service. A number of regional or national chains offer selected parts and services at prices that may be lower than our prices. 
We believe the majority of consumers are utilizing the Internet and other digital media in connection with the purchase of new and used
vehicles. Accordingly, we face increased competition from on-line automotive 
  15 


Table of Contents

websites, including those developed by automobile manufacturers and other dealership groups. Consumers can use the Internet and other digital media to compare prices for vehicles and related
services, which may result in reduced margins for new vehicles, used vehicles and related services.  Employees and Labor Relations
 As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 15,600 people, approximately 600 of whom were covered by
collective bargaining agreements with labor unions. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. Our policy is to motivate our key managers through, among other things, variable compensation programs tied principally to
dealership profitability. Due to our reliance on vehicle manufacturers, we may be adversely affected by labor strikes or work stoppages at the manufacturers’ facilities.  Regulation  We operate in a highly regulated industry and a number of
regulations affect the marketing, selling, financing and servicing of automobiles. Under the laws of the jurisdictions in which we currently operate, we typically must obtain a license in order to establish, operate or relocate a dealership or
operate an automotive repair service. These laws also regulate our conduct of business, including our advertising, operating, financing, employment and sales practices. Other laws and regulations include franchise laws and regulations, environmental
laws and regulations (see “Environmental Matters” below), laws and regulations applicable to new and used motor vehicle dealers, as well as privacy, identity theft prevention, wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices
laws.  Our financing activities with customers are subject to truth-in-lending, consumer leasing, equal credit opportunity and
similar regulations, as well as motor vehicle finance laws, installment finance laws, insurance laws, usury laws and other installment sales laws. Some jurisdictions regulate finance fees that may be paid as a result of vehicle sales. In recent
years, private plaintiffs and state attorneys general in the U.S. have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. 
In the U.S., we benefit from the protection of numerous state franchise laws that generally provide that a manufacturer or distributor
may not terminate or refuse to renew a franchise agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or non-renewal. Some state franchise laws allow dealers to file
protests or petitions or to attempt to comply with the manufacturer’s criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or non-renewal.  Europe generally does not have these laws and, as a result, our European dealerships operate without these types of protections. However, current European rules limit automotive manufacturers’
“block exemption” to certain anti-competitive rules in regards to establishing and maintaining a retail network. As a result, existing manufacturer authorized retailers are able to, subject to manufacturer facility requirements, relocate
or add additional facilities throughout the European Union, offer multiple brands in the same facility, allow the operation of service facilities independent of new car sales facilities and ease restrictions on transfers of dealerships between
existing franchisees within the European Union. In June 2013, the European rules will change such that the authorized retailers abilities will be more limited. We do not currently believe that the rule changes will have a material affect on us.
 Environmental Matters  We are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the operation and removal of aboveground and underground storage tanks,
the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and other materials and the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination. As with automotive dealerships generally, and service, parts and body shop operations in
particular, our business involves the generation, use, handling and contracting for recycling or 
  16 


Table of Contents

disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, including environmentally sensitive materials such as motor oil, filters, transmission fluid, antifreeze, refrigerant, batteries, solvents,
lubricants, and fuel. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with such laws and regulations.  Our operations involving the management of hazardous and other environmentally sensitive materials are subject to numerous requirements. Our business also involves the operation of storage tanks
containing such materials. Storage tanks are subject to periodic testing, containment, upgrading and removal under applicable law. Furthermore, investigation or remediation may be necessary in the event of leaks or other discharges from current or
former underground or aboveground storage tanks. In addition, water quality protection programs govern certain discharges from some of our operations. Similarly, certain air emissions from our operations, such as auto body painting, may be subject
to relevant laws. Various health and safety standards also apply to our operations.  We may have liability in connection with
materials that are sent to third-party recycling, treatment, and/or disposal facilities under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and comparable statutes. These statutes impose liability for
investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination. Responsible parties under these statutes may include the owner or operator of the site where the
contamination occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances released at these sites.  An expanding trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Vehicle manufacturers are subject to federally mandated
corporate average fuel economy standards, which will increase substantially through 2016. Furthermore, in response to recent studies suggesting that emissions of carbon dioxide and certain other gases, referred to as “greenhouse gases,”
may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere, climate change-related legislation and policy changes to restrict greenhouse gas emissions are being considered at state and federal levels. Significant increases in fuel economy
requirements or new federal or state restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide on vehicles and automobile fuels in the U.S. could adversely affect prices of and demand for the vehicles that we sell. 
We believe that we do not have any material environmental liabilities and that compliance with environmental laws and regulations will
not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material effect on us. However, soil and groundwater contamination is known to exist at certain of our current or former properties. Further, environmental laws and regulations are complex and subject to
change. In addition, in connection with our acquisitions, it is possible that we will assume or become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities, some of which may be material. Compliance with current, amended, new or more
stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws or the future discovery of environmental conditions could require additional expenditures by us, and such expenditures could be material. 
Insurance  The
automotive retail industry is subject to substantial risk of loss due to the significant concentration of property values at dealership locations, including vehicles and parts. In addition, we are exposed to liabilities arising out of our
operations, including claims by employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage and potential fines and penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. We attempt to manage such risks through
insurance programs, including umbrella and excess insurance policies, subject to specified deductibles and significant loss retentions. As a result, we are exposed to uninsured and underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on us.
 Available Information  For selected financial information concerning our various operating and geographic segments, see Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Our Annual
Report on Form 10-K, 
  17 


Table of Contents

Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free
of charge through our website, www.penskeautomotive.com, under the tab “Investor Relations” as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”). You may read or copy any materials we filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
at 800-732-0330. Additionally, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information. The address of the SEC’s website is www.sec.gov. We also make available on our website
copies of materials regarding our corporate governance policies and practices, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines; our Code of Business Ethics; and the charters relating to the committees of our Board of Directors. You may obtain a
printed copy of any of the foregoing materials by sending a written request to: Investor Relations, Penske Automotive Group, Inc., 2555 Telegraph Road, Bloomfield Hills, MI 48302 or by calling toll-free 866-715-5289. The information on or linked to
our website is not part of this document. We plan to disclose changes to our Code of Business Ethics, or waivers, if any, for our executive officers or directors, on our website. We are incorporated in the state of Delaware and began dealership
operations in October 1992.  Seasonality  Our business is modestly seasonal overall. Our U.S. operations generally experience higher volumes of vehicle sales in the second and third quarters of each year due in part to consumer buying trends
and the introduction of new vehicle models. Also, vehicle demand, and to a lesser extent demand for service and parts, is generally lower during the winter months than in other seasons, particularly in regions of the U.S. where dealerships may
be subject to severe winters. Our U.K. operations generally experience higher volumes of vehicle sales in the first and third quarters of each year, due primarily to vehicle registration practices in the U.K. 
 


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including the
matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth herein, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements”
within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,”
“seeks,” “projects,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions
for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we set forth this statement in order to comply with such safe harbor provisions. You should note that our forward-looking statements speak only as
of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or when made and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 
Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions, and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable,
such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or
implied by the forward-looking statements.  The risks, uncertainties, and other factors that our stockholders and prospective
investors should consider include the following:  Macro-economic conditions. Our performance is impacted by
general economic conditions overall, and in particular by economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. These economic conditions include: levels of new and used vehicle sales; availability of consumer credit; changes in consumer demand;
consumer 
  18 


Table of Contents

confidence levels; fuel prices; personal discretionary spending levels; interest rates; and unemployment rates. When the worldwide economy faltered and the worldwide automotive industry
experienced significant operational and financial difficulties in 2008 and 2009, we were adversely affected, and we expect a similar relationship between general economic and industry conditions and our performance in the future. 
Automotive manufacturers exercise significant control over us. Each of our dealerships operates under franchise and other
agreements with automotive manufacturers or related distributors. These agreements govern almost every aspect of the operation of our dealerships, and give manufacturers the discretion to terminate or not renew our franchise agreements for a variety
of reasons, including certain events outside our control such as accumulation of our stock by third parties. Without franchise agreements, we would be unable to sell new vehicles or perform manufacturer authorized warranty service. If a significant
number of our franchise agreements are terminated or are not renewed, we would be materially affected.  Restructuring,
bankruptcy or other adverse condition affecting a significant automotive manufacturer or supplier. Our success depends on the overall success of the automotive industry generally, and in particular on the success of the brands of vehicles
that each of our dealerships sell. In 2011, revenue generated at our BMW/MINI, Audi/Volkswagen/Bentley, Toyota/Lexus/Scion, Honda/Acura, and Mercedes-Benz/Sprinter/smart dealerships represented 25%, 15%, 15%, 13%, and 10%, respectively, of our total
revenues. Significant adverse events, such as the reduced 2011 new vehicle production by Japanese automotive manufacturers caused by the significant production and supply chain disruptions resulting from the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan
on March 11, 2011, or future events that interrupt vehicle or parts supply to our dealerships, would likely have a significant and adverse impact on the industry as a whole, including us, particularly if the events relate to any of the
manufacturers whose franchises generate a significant percentage of our revenue.  Our business is very competitive.
We generally compete with: other franchised automotive dealerships in our markets; private market buyers and sellers of used vehicles; Internet-based vehicle brokers; national and local service and repair shops and parts retailers; and
automotive manufacturers (in certain markets). Purchase decisions by consumers when shopping for a vehicle are extremely price sensitive. The level of competition in the market generally, coupled with increasing price transparency resulting from
increased use of the Internet by consumers, can lead to lower selling prices and related profits. If there is a prolonged drop in retail prices, new vehicle sales are allowed to be made over the Internet without the involvement of franchised
dealers, or if dealerships are able to effectively use the Internet to sell outside of their markets, our business could be materially adversely affected.  Property loss, business interruption or other liabilities. Our business is subject to substantial risk of loss due to: the significant concentration of property values, including vehicle and
parts inventories, at our operating locations; claims by employees, customers and third parties for personal injury or property damage; and fines and penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. While we have insurance
for many of these risks, we retain risk relating to certain of these perils and certain perils are not covered by our insurance. If we experience significant losses that are not covered by our insurance, whether due to adverse weather conditions or
otherwise, or we are required to retain a significant portion of a loss, it could have a significant and adverse effect on us. 
Leverage. Our significant debt and other commitments expose us to a number of risks, including: 
Cash requirements for debt and lease obligations. A significant portion of the cash flow we generate must be
used to service the interest and principal payments relating to our various financial commitments, including $1.7 billion of floor plan notes payable, $850 million of long-term debt and $4.7 billion of future lease commitments (including extension
periods and assuming constant consumer price indices). A sustained or significant decrease in our operating cash flows could lead to an inability to meet our debt service requirements or to a failure to meet specified financial and operating
covenants included in certain of our agreements. If this were to occur, it may lead to a default under one or more of our commitments and potentially the acceleration of amounts due, which could have a significant and adverse effect on us.

  19 


Table of Contents
Availability. Because we finance the majority of our operating and
strategic initiatives using a variety of commitments, including floor plan notes payable and revolving credit facilities, we are dependent on continued availability of these sources of funds. If these agreements are terminated or we are unable to
access them because of a breach of financial or operating covenants or otherwise, we will likely be materially affected.  Interest rate variability. The interest rates we are charged on a substantial portion of our debt, including the floor plan notes payable we issue to purchase the majority of our inventory, are
variable, increasing or decreasing based on changes in certain published interest rates. Increases to such interest rates would likely result in significantly higher interest expense for us, which would negatively affect our operating results.
Because many of our customers finance their vehicle purchases, increased interest rates may also decrease vehicle sales, which would negatively affect our operating results.  International operations. We have significant operations outside the U.S. that expose us to changes in foreign exchange rates and to the impact of economic and political conditions in the
markets where we operate. As exchange rates fluctuate, our results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars fluctuate. For example, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen against the U.K. pound, our U.K. results of operations would translate into
less U.S. dollar reported results. Any significant or prolonged increase in the value of the U.S. dollar, particularly as compared to the U.K. pound, could result in a significant and adverse effect on our reported results. 
Joint ventures. We have significant investments in a variety of joint ventures, including retail automotive operations in
Germany and a 9.0% limited partnership interest in PTL. We expect to receive annual operating distributions from each such venture, and, in the case of PTL, to realize U.S. tax savings as a result of our investment. These benefits may not be
realized if the joint ventures do not perform as expected, or if changes in tax, financial or regulatory requirements negatively impact the results of the joint venture operations. Our ability to dispose of these investments may be limited. In
addition, because PTL is engaged in different businesses than we are, its performance may vary significantly from ours. 
Performance of sublessees. In connection with the sale, relocation and closure of certain of our franchises, we have
entered into a number of third-party sublease agreements. The rent paid by our sub-tenants on such properties in 2011 totaled approximately $11.7 million. In the aggregate, we remain ultimately liable for approximately $178.9 million of such lease
payments including payments relating to all available renewal periods. We rely on our sub-tenants to pay the rent and maintain the properties covered by these leases. In the event a subtenant does not perform under the terms of their lease with us,
we could be required to fulfill such obligations, which could have a significant and adverse effect on us.  Information
Technology. Our information systems are fully integrated into our operations, including: electronic communications and data transfer protocols with manufacturers and other vendors; customer relationship management; sales and service
scheduling; data storage; and financial and operational reporting. The majority of our systems are licensed from third parties, the most significant of which are provided by one supplier in the U.S. and one supplier in the U.K. To the extent these
systems become unavailable to us for any reason, or if our relationship deteriorates with either of our two principal suppliers, we may not be able to negotiate agreements to secure those or similar services on terms that are acceptable to us, if at
all, and our business could be significantly disrupted. In addition, to the extent our systems are subject to intentional attacks or unintentional events that allow unauthorized access that disrupts our systems, our business could be significantly
disrupted.  Key personnel. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and
abilities of our senior management, and in particular upon Roger Penske who is our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. To the extent Mr. Penske, or other key personnel, were to depart from our Company unexpectedly, our business could be
significantly disrupted. 
  20 


Table of Contents
Regulatory issues. We are subject to a wide variety of regulatory activities,
including:  Governmental regulations, claims and legal proceedings. Governmental regulations affect
almost every aspect of our business, including the fair treatment of our employees, wage and hour issues, and our financing activities with customers. In the event of regulation restricting our ability to generate revenue from arranging financing
for our customers, we could be adversely affected. We could also be susceptible to claims or related actions if we fail to operate our business in accordance with applicable laws. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law which may
be asserted against us or any of our dealers by individuals, through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings, may expose us to substantial monetary damages which may adversely affect us.
 Franchise laws in the U.S. In the U.S., state law generally provides protections to franchised
automotive dealers from discriminatory practices by manufacturers and from unreasonable termination or non-renewal of their franchise agreements. If these franchise laws are repealed or amended, manufacturers may have greater flexibility to
terminate or not renew our franchises. Franchised automotive dealers in the European Union operate without such protections.  Environmental regulations. We are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations, including those governing: discharges into the air and water; the operation and removal of storage
tanks; and the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. In the normal course of our operations we use, generate and dispose of materials covered by these laws and regulations. We face potentially significant costs relating to claims,
penalties and remediation efforts in the event of non-compliance with existing and future laws and regulations. 
Accounting rules and regulations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is currently evaluating several
significant changes to generally accepted accounting standards in the U.S., including the rules governing the accounting for leases. Any such changes could significantly affect our reported financial position, earnings and cash flows. In
addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission is currently considering adopting rules that would require us to prepare our financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, which could also result in significant
changes to our reported financial position, earnings and cash flows.  Related parties. Our two largest
stockholders, Penske Corporation and its affiliates (“Penske Corporation”) and Mitsui & Co and its affiliates (“Mitsui”), together beneficially own 51.5% of our outstanding common stock. The presence of such significant
shareholders results in several risks, including:  Our principal stockholders have substantial
influence. Penske Corporation and Mitsui have entered into a stockholders agreement pursuant to which they have agreed to vote together as to the election of our directors. As a result, Penske Corporation has the ability to control the
composition of our Board of Directors, which may allow them to control our affairs and business. This concentration of ownership, coupled with certain provisions contained in our agreements with manufacturers, our certificate of incorporation, and
our bylaws, could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us.  Some of our directors and
officers may have conflicts of interest with respect to certain related party transactions and other business interests. Roger Penske, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and a director, and Robert H. Kurnick, Jr., our President and a
director, hold the same offices at Penske Corporation. Each of these officers is paid much of their compensation by Penske Corporation. The compensation they receive from us is based on their efforts on our behalf, however, they are not required to
spend any specific amount of time on our matters. One of our directors, Richard J. Peters also serves as a director of Penske Corporation.  Penske Corporation has pledged its shares of common stock to secure a loan facility. Penske Corporation has pledged all of its shares of our common stock as collateral to secure a loan facility. A
default by Penske Corporation could result in the foreclosure on those shares by the lenders, after which the lenders could attempt to sell those shares on the open market. Any such change in ownership and/or sale could materially impact the market
price of our common stock. See below “Penske Corporation ownership levels.” 
  21 


Table of Contents
Penske Corporation ownership levels. Certain of our agreements have
clauses that are triggered in the event of a material change in the level of ownership of our common stock by Penske Corporation, such as our trademark agreement between us and Penske Corporation that governs our use of the “Penske” name
which can be terminated 24 months after the date that Penske Corporation no longer owns at least 20% of our voting stock. We may not be able to renegotiate such agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, in the event of a significant
change in Penske Corporation’s ownership.  We have a significant number of shares of common stock eligible for future
sale. Penske Corporation and Mitsui own 51.5% of our common stock and each has two demand registration rights that could result in a substantial number of shares being introduced for sale in the market. We also have a significant amount of
authorized but unissued shares. The introduction of any of these shares into the market could have a material adverse effect our stock price.   


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments  Not applicable.   


Item 2.
Properties 
We lease or sublease substantially all of our dealership properties and other facilities. These leases are generally for a period of
between five and 20 years, and are typically structured to include renewal options at our election. We lease office space in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, Leicester, England and Stuttgart, Germany for our administrative headquarters and other
corporate related activities. We believe that our facilities are sufficient for our needs and are in good repair.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  We are involved in litigation which may relate to claims brought by governmental authorities, customers, vendors, or employees, including class action claims and purported class action claims. We are not
a party to any legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits, that individually or in the aggregate, are reasonably expected to have a material effect on us. However, the results of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and an
unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect.   


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  Not applicable. 
  22 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities 
Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PAG.” As of February 15, 2012, there were
approximately 217 holders of record of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices and quarterly dividends per share for our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape during each
quarter of 2011 and 2010.   
















 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
Dividend
 

 2010:
  



  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
17.70
  
  
$
13.75
  
  
$
—  
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
16.50
  
  
 
11.35
  
  
 
—  
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
14.64
  
  
 
10.89
  
  
 
—  
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
 
17.58
  
  
 
12.87
  
  
 
—  
  

 2011:
  



  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
22.10
  
  
$
16.24
  
  
$
—  
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
23.24
  
  
 
18.46
  
  
 
0.07
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
24.00
  
  
 
15.31
  
  
 
0.08
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
 
22.45
  
  
 
14.87
  
  
 
0.09
  
 Dividends  In addition to the dividends noted above, we have announced the payment of a dividend of $0.10 per share to be paid on March 1, 2012 to record holders as of February 10, 2012. Future cash
dividends will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, restrictions imposed by any then existing indebtedness and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. In particular, our U.S. credit agreement and
the indenture governing our 7.75% senior subordinated notes contain, and any future indenture that governs any notes which may be issued by us may contain, certain limitations on our ability to pay dividends. See Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We are a holding company whose assets consist primarily of the direct or indirect ownership of the
capital stock of our operating subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute earnings and other advances and payments to us. Also, pursuant to the
automobile franchise agreements to which our dealerships are subject, our dealerships are generally required to maintain a certain amount of working capital, which could limit our subsidiaries’ ability to pay us dividends. 
  23 


Table of Contents
SHARE INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE 
The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder returns on our common stock based on an investment of $100 on
December 31, 2006 and the close of the market on December 31 of each year thereafter against (i) the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and (ii) an industry/peer group consisting of Asbury Automotive Group, Inc.,
AutoNation, Inc., Group 1 Automotive, Inc., Lithia Motors Inc. and Sonic Automotive, Inc. The graph assumes the reinvestment of all dividends.  COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*  Among Penske Automotive
Group, Inc., The S&P 500 Index  And A Peer Group 
  

  


*
$100 invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 
 




























 
  
Cumulative Total Return
 

 
  
12/06
 
  
12/07
 
  
12/08
 
  
12/09
 
  
12/10
 
  
12/11
 

 Penske Automotive Group, Inc.
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
75.12
  
  
 
33.99
  
  
 
67.19
  
  
 
77.11
  
  
 
86.26
  

 S&P 500
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
105.49
  
  
 
66.46
  
  
 
84.05
  
  
 
96.71
  
  
 
98.75
  

 Peer Group
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
66.40
  
  
 
33.02
  
  
 
69.24
  
  
 
102.28
  
  
 
131.32
  
 Share Repurchases  For information with respect to repurchase of our shares by us, see “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Securities Repurchases” on p. 37. 
  24 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data  The following table sets forth our selected historical consolidated financial and other data as of and for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2011, which has been derived from
our audited consolidated financial statements. During the periods presented, we made a number of acquisitions and have included the results of operations of the acquired dealerships from the date of acquisition. As a result, our period to period
results of operations vary depending on the dates of the acquisitions. Accordingly, this selected financial data is not necessarily comparable or indicative of our future results. During the periods presented, we also sold certain dealerships which
have been treated as discontinued operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. You should read this selected consolidated financial data in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related
footnotes included elsewhere in this report.   
























 
  
As of and for the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011(1)
 
  
2010(2)
 
  
2009(3)
 
  
2008(4)
 
 
2007(5)
 

 
  
(In millions, except per share data)
 

 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data:
  



  



  



  



 




 Total revenues
  
$
11,556.2
  
  
$
10,328.4
  
  
$
9,012.2
  
  
$
10,895.7
  
 
$
12,311.0
  

 Gross profit
  
$
1,825.4
  
  
$
1,644.1
  
  
$
1,507.1
  
  
$
1,678.7
  
 
$
1,831.1
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders (6)
  
$
175.1
  
  
$
123.6
  
  
$
79.7
  
  
$
(436.0
) 
 
$
116.1
  

 Net income (loss) attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
$
176.9
  
  
$
108.3
  
  
$
76.5
  
  
$
(420.0
) 
 
$
120.3
  

 Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations attributable to Penske Automotive Group common
stockholders
  
$
1.92
  
  
$
1.34
  
  
$
0.87
  
  
$
(4.64
) 
 
$
1.22
  

 Diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
$
1.94
  
  
$
1.18
  
  
$
0.83
  
  
$
(4.47
) 
 
$
1.27
  

 Shares used in computing diluted share data
  
 
91.3
  
  
 
92.1
  
  
 
91.7
  
  
 
94.0
  
 
 
95.0
  

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



  



  



  



 




 Total assets
  
$
4,502.3
  
  
$
4,069.8
  
  
$
3,796.0
  
  
$
3,962.1
  
 
$
4,667.1
  

 Total floor plan notes payable
  
$
1,702.3
  
  
$
1,408.6
  
  
$
1,141.1
  
  
$
1,409.9
  
 
$
1,449.0
  

 Total debt (excluding floor plan notes payable)
  
$
850.2
  
  
$
779.9
  
  
$
946.4
  
  
$
1,063.3
  
 
$
794.8
  

 Total equity attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
$
1,136.0
  
  
$
1,041.6
  
  
$
942.4
  
  
$
804.8
  
 
$
1,450.7
  

 Cash dividends per share
  
$
0.24
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
0.36
  
 
$
0.30
  
  


(1)
Includes benefit of $17.0 million, or $0.19 per share, from the resolution of certain tax items in the U.K. offset by a reduction in U.K. deferred tax assets of $6.0
million, or $0.07 per share. 


(2)
Includes gains of $5.3 million ($3.6 million after-tax), or $0.04 per share, and $1.6 million ($1.1 million after-tax), or $0.01 per share, relating to a gain on the
sale of an investment and the repurchase of $155.7 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes, respectively, offset by a charge of $4.1 million ($2.8 million after-tax), or $0.03 per share, associated with
costs related to franchise closure and relocation costs. 


(3)
Includes a gain of $10.4 million ($6.5 million after-tax), or $0.07 per share, relating to the repurchase of $68.7 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.5% senior
subordinated convertible notes and charges of $5.2 million ($3.4 million after-tax), or $0.04 per share, relating to costs associated with the termination of the acquisition of the Saturn brand, our election to close three franchises in the U.S. and
charges relating to our interest rate hedges of variable rate floor plan notes payable as a result of decreases in our vehicle inventories, and resulting decreases in outstanding floor plan notes payable, below hedged levels.



(4)
 Includes charges of $661.9 million ($505.2 million after-tax), or $5.37 per share, including $643.5 million ($493.2 million after-tax), or
$5.25 per share, relating to goodwill and franchise asset impairments, as well 
  25 


Table of Contents


 

as, an additional $18.4 million ($12.0 million after-tax), or $0.13 per share, of dealership consolidation and relocation costs, severance costs, other asset impairment charges, costs associated
with the termination of an acquisition agreement, and insurance deductibles relating to damage sustained at our dealerships in the Houston market during Hurricane Ike. 


(5)
Includes charges of $18.6 million ($12.3 million after-tax), or $0.13 per share, relating to the redemption of the $300.0 million aggregate amount of
9.625% senior subordinated notes and $6.3 million ($4.5 million after-tax), or $0.05 per share, relating to impairment charges. 


(6)
Excludes income from continuing operations attributable to non-controlling interests of $1.4 million, $1.1 million, $0.5 million, $1.1 million, and $2.0 million in
2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. 
  26 


Table of Contents


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements
that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and
“Forward Looking Statements.” We have acquired and initiated a number of businesses since inception. Our financial statements include the results of operations of those businesses from the date acquired or when they commenced operations.
This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations has been updated to reflect the revision of our financial statements for entities which have been treated as discontinued operations through
December 31, 2011.  Overview  We are the second largest automotive retailer headquartered in the U.S. as measured by the $11.6 billion in total revenue we generated in 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we operated 320 retail
automotive franchises, of which 166 franchises are located in the U.S. and 154 franchises are located outside of the U.S. The franchises outside the U.S. are located primarily in the U.K. In 2011, we retailed and wholesaled more than 348,000
vehicles. We are diversified geographically, with 63% of our total revenues in 2011 generated in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and 37% generated outside the U.S. We offer approximately 40 vehicle brands, with 96% of our total retail revenue in 2011
generated from brands of non-U.S. based manufacturers, and 69% generated from premium brands, such as Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Porsche. Each of our dealerships offers a wide selection of new and used vehicles for sale. In addition to selling new
and used vehicles, we generate higher-margin revenue at each of our dealerships through maintenance and repair services and the sale and placement of higher-margin products, such as third-party finance and insurance products, third-party extended
service contracts and replacement and aftermarket automotive products.  We also own a 9.0% limited partnership interest in
Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (“PTL”), a leading global transportation services provider. PTL leases, rents and maintains more than 200,000 vehicles and serves customers in North America, South America, Europe and Asia and is one of the
largest purchasers of commercial trucks in North America through its approximately 1,000 corporate and 1,900 agent locations. Product lines include full-service leasing, contract maintenance, commercial and consumer truck rentals, used truck sales,
transportation and warehousing management and supply chain management solutions. The general partner of PTL is Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Penske Corporation, which, together with other wholly-owned subsidiaries of
Penske Corporation, owns 41.1% of PTL. The remaining 49.9% of PTL is owned by General Electric Capital Corporation.  In 2011,
smart USA Distributor, LLC, our wholly owned subsidiary, completed the sale of certain assets and the transfer of certain liabilities relating to the distribution rights, management, sales and marketing activities of smart USA to Daimler Vehicle
Innovations LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Mercedes-Benz USA. The final aggregate cash purchase price for the assets was $44.6 million. As a result, smart USA has been treated as a discontinued operation for all periods presented in the
accompanying financial statements.  Outlook  The level of new automotive unit sales in our markets impacts our results. The new vehicle market and the amount of customer traffic visiting our dealerships has improved during 2010 and 2011, though the
level of automotive sales in the U.S. remains below the last 10 years average sales level. There are market expectations for continued improvement in the automotive market in the U.S. over the next several years, although the level of such
improvement is uncertain. During 2011, 12.8 million cars and light trucks were sold in the U.S., representing a 10% improvement over the 11.6 million cars and light trucks sold during the same period last year. We believe the U.S.
automotive market will continue to recover based upon industry forecasts from companies such as JD Power, coupled with demand in the marketplace, an aging vehicle population, increased availability, and lower cost, of credit for consumers, and the
planned introduction of new models by many different vehicle brands.  Vehicle registrations in the U.K were 1.94 million
in 2011 compared to 2.03 million in 2010, representing a decline of 4.4%. According to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (www.smmt.co.uk), the U.K. market is expected to be challenging in 2012 as the economic outlook remains
uncertain, however, in 2011, 
  27 


Table of Contents

vehicle registrations of premium brands such as Audi, Bentley, BMW, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lexus, Mercedes-Benz, MINI and Porsche increased, indicating that registrations of premium/luxury vehicles
have been more resilient than the market as a whole.  Operating Overview 
New and used vehicle revenues include sales to retail customers and to leasing companies providing consumer automobile leasing. We
generate finance and insurance revenues from sales of third-party extended service contracts, sales of third-party insurance policies, commissions relating to the sale of finance and lease contracts to third parties and the sales of certain other
products. Service and parts revenues include fees paid for repair, maintenance and collision services, and the sale of replacement parts and other aftermarket accessories.  Our gross profit tends to vary with the mix of revenues we derive from the sale of new vehicles, used vehicles, finance and insurance products, and service and parts transactions. Our gross profit varies
across product lines, with vehicle sales usually resulting in lower gross profit margins and our other revenues resulting in higher gross profit margins. Factors such as inventory and vehicle availability, customer demand, consumer confidence,
unemployment, general economic conditions, seasonality, weather, credit availability, fuel prices and manufacturers’ advertising and incentives also impact the mix of our revenues, and therefore influence our gross profit margin. 
Aggregate gross profit increased $181.3 million, or 11.0%, during the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in
prior year. The increase in gross profit is largely attributable to the 8.2% increase in same store retail revenue. Our retail gross margin percentage declined from 16.9% during the year ended December 31, 2010 to 16.7% during the year ended
December 31, 2011, due primarily to an increase in the percentage of our revenues generated by used vehicle sales which carry a lower gross margin than other parts of our business. 
Our selling expenses consist of advertising and compensation for sales personnel, including commissions and related bonuses. General and
administrative expenses include compensation for administration, finance, legal and general management personnel, rent, insurance, utilities, and other expenses. As the majority of our selling expenses are variable, and we believe a significant
portion of our general and administrative expenses are subject to our control, we believe our expenses can be adjusted over time to reflect economic trends.  Floor plan interest expense relates to financing incurred in connection with the acquisition of new and used vehicle inventories that is secured by those vehicles. Other interest expense consists of
interest charges on all of our interest-bearing debt, other than interest relating to floor plan financing. The cost of our variable rate indebtedness is based on the prime rate, defined London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), the Bank of
England Base Rate, the Finance House Base Rate, or the Euro Interbank Offered Rate. Our floor plan interest expense has decreased during the year ended December 31, 2011 as a result of lower applicable interest rates, including the impact of
the expiration of interest rate swap transactions. Our other interest expense has decreased during the year ended December 31, 2011 due to repurchases of our 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes and term loan repayments offset by
increased average borrowings under the revolving U.S. credit facility.  Equity in earnings of affiliates represents our share
of the earnings from our investments in joint ventures and other non-consolidated investments, including PTL. It is our expectation that operating conditions as outlined above in the “Outlook” section will similarly impact these businesses
throughout 2012. However, because PTL is engaged in different businesses than we are, its operating performance may vary significantly from ours.  The future success of our business is dependent upon, among other things, general economic and industry conditions, our ability to consummate and integrate acquisitions, the level of vehicle sales in the
markets where we operate, our ability to increase sales of higher margin products, especially service and parts services, our ability to realize returns on our significant capital investment in new and upgraded dealership facilities and the return
realized from our investments in various joint ventures and other non-consolidated investments. See Item 1A – “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” 
  28 


Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires the application of accounting policies that often involve making estimates and employing judgments. Such judgments influence the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized in our financial statements. Management, on an ongoing
basis, reviews these estimates and assumptions. Management may determine that modifications in assumptions and estimates are required, which may result in a material change in our results of operations or financial position. 
The following are the accounting policies applied in the preparation of our financial statements that management believes are most
dependent upon the use of estimates and assumptions.  Revenue Recognition 
Vehicle, Parts and Service Sales  We record revenue when vehicles are delivered and title has passed to the customer, when vehicle service or repair work is completed and when parts are delivered to our customers. Sales promotions that we
offer to customers are accounted for as a reduction of revenues at the time of sale. Rebates and other incentives offered directly to us by manufacturers are recognized as a reduction of cost of sales. Reimbursements of qualified advertising
expenses are treated as a reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses. The amounts received under certain manufacturer rebate and incentive programs are based on the attainment of program objectives, and such earnings are recognized
either upon the sale of the vehicle for which the award was received, or upon attainment of the particular program goals if not associated with individual vehicles. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we earned $382.6
million, $360.8 million, and $310.4 million, respectively, of rebates, incentives and reimbursements from manufacturers, of which $371.7 million, $351.5 million, and $304.9 million was recorded as a reduction of cost of sales.
 Finance and Insurance Sales  Subsequent to the sale of a vehicle to a customer, we sell installment sale contracts to various financial institutions on a non-recourse basis (with specified exceptions) to mitigate the risk of default.
We receive a commission from the lender equal to either the difference between the interest rate charged to the customer and the interest rate set by the financing institution or a flat fee. We also receive commissions for facilitating the sale of
various third-party insurance products to customers, including credit and life insurance policies and extended service contracts. These commissions are recorded as revenue at the time the customer enters into the contract. 
Impairment Testing  Franchise value impairment is assessed as of October 1 every year and upon the occurrence of an indicator of impairment through a comparison of its carrying amount and estimated fair value. An
indicator of impairment exists if the carrying value of a franchise exceeds its estimated fair value and an impairment loss may be recognized up to that excess. The fair value of franchise value is determined using a discounted cash flow approach,
which includes assumptions about revenue and profitability growth, franchise profit margins, and our cost of capital. We also evaluate our franchise agreements in connection with the annual impairment testing to determine whether events and
circumstances continue to support our assessment that the franchise agreements have an indefinite life.  Goodwill impairment
is assessed at the reporting unit level as of October 1 every year and upon the occurrence of an indicator of impairment. The Company’s operations are organized by management into operating segments by line of business and geography. The
Company has determined it has two reportable segments as defined in generally accepted accounting principles for segment reporting, including: (i) Retail, consisting of our automotive retail operations and (ii) PAG Investments, consisting
of our investments in businesses other than automotive retail operations. We have determined that the dealerships in each of our operating segments within the Retail reportable segment are components that are aggregated into four

  29 


Table of Contents

geographical reporting units for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, as they (A) have similar economic characteristics (all are automotive dealerships having similar margins),
(B) offer similar products and services (all sell new and used vehicles, service, parts and third-party finance and insurance products), (C) have similar target markets and customers (generally individuals) and (D) have similar
distribution and marketing practices (all distribute products and services through dealership facilities that market to customers in similar fashions). There is no goodwill recorded in our PAG Investments reportable segment. 
In September 2011, the FASB updated the accounting guidance related to testing goodwill for impairment. This update permits an entity to
make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value before applying the two-step goodwill impairment model that is currently in place. If it is determined through the
qualitative assessment that a reporting unit's fair value is more likely than not greater than its carrying value, the remaining impairment steps would be unnecessary. The qualitative assessment is optional, allowing companies to go directly to the
quantitative assessment. This update is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, however, early adoption is permitted. We elected to early adopt the qualitative
assessment.  Investments  We account for each of our investments under the equity method, pursuant to which we record our proportionate share of the investee’s income each period. The net book value of our investments was
$298.6 million and $288.4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Investments for which there is not a liquid, actively traded market are reviewed periodically by management for indicators of impairment. If an
indicator of impairment is identified, management estimates the fair value of the investment using a discounted cash flow approach, which includes assumptions relating to revenue and profitability growth, profit margins and our cost of capital.
Declines in investment values that are deemed to be other than temporary may result in an impairment charge reducing the investments’ carrying value to fair value.  Self-Insurance  We retain risk relating to certain of our general
liability insurance, workers’ compensation insurance, auto physical damage insurance, property insurance, employment practices liability insurance, directors and officers insurance and employee medical benefits in the U.S. As a result, we are
likely to be responsible for a significant portion of the claims and losses incurred under these programs. The amount of risk we retain varies by program, and, for certain exposures, we have pre-determined maximum loss limits for certain individual
claims and/or insurance periods. Losses, if any, above the pre-determined loss limits are paid by third-party insurance carriers. Our estimate of future losses is prepared by management using our historical loss experience and industry-based
development factors. Aggregate reserves relating to retained risk were $25.9 million and $22.8 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Changes in the reserve estimate during 2011 relate primarily to our general
liability and workers compensation programs.  Income Taxes 
Tax regulations may require items to be included in our tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in our financial
statements. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible on our tax return, and some are temporary differences, such as the timing of depreciation expense. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and
liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that will be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax returns in future years which we have already recorded in our financial statements. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent
deductions taken on our tax returns that have not yet been recognized as expense in our financial statements. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets if the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to allow for
the use of the deduction or credit.  We do not provide for U.S. taxes relating to undistributed earnings or losses of our
foreign subsidiaries. Income from continuing operations before income taxes of foreign subsidiaries (which subsidiaries are predominately in the U.K.) was $98.2 million, $98.8 million, and $93.1 million during the years ended

  30 


Table of Contents

December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. It is our belief that such earnings will be indefinitely reinvested in the companies that produced them. At December 31, 2011, we have
not provided U.S. federal income taxes on a total of approximately $700.4 million of earnings of individual foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were remitted as dividends, we would be subject to U.S. income taxes in excess of foreign taxes paid
and certain foreign withholding taxes.  Classification in Continuing and Discontinued Operations 
We classify the results of our operations in our consolidated financial statements based on generally accepted accounting principles
relating to discontinued operations, which requires judgments, including whether a business will be divested, whether the cash flows will be replaced, the period required to complete the divestiture, and the likelihood of changes to the divestiture
plans. If we determine that a business should be either reclassified from continuing operations to discontinued operations or from discontinued operations to continuing operations, our consolidated financial statements for prior periods are revised
to reflect such reclassification.  New Accounting Pronouncements 
In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which
requires the presentation of components of other comprehensive income with the components of net income in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. We will adopt this update for
periods beginning after December 31, 2011. While this will affect the presentation of comprehensive income, we do not believe it will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, amending the guidance on goodwill
impairment testing. This update permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of reporting unit is less than its carrying value. This is intended to reduce the cost and
complexity of the annual impairment test and is considered a preliminary step in determining whether it is necessary to calculate a fair value for a reporting unit. We elected to early adopt the provisions of this update by preparing a qualitative
assessment for the period ending December 31, 2011. The adoption of this update had no impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.  Results of Operations  The following tables present comparative financial
data relating to our operating performance in the aggregate and on a “same-store” basis. Dealership results are included in same-store comparisons when we have consolidated the acquired entity during the entirety of both periods being
compared. As an example, if a dealership was acquired on January 15, 2009, the results of the acquired entity would be included in annual same store comparisons beginning with the year ended December 31, 2011 and in quarterly same store
comparisons beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2010.  2011 compared to 2010 and 2010 compared to 2009 (in millions, except unit
and per unit amounts)  Our results for the year ended December 31, 2011 include a net income tax benefit of $11.0
million, or $0.12 per share, reflecting a positive adjustment from the resolution of certain tax items in the U.K. of $17.0 million, or $0.19 per share, partially offset by a reduction in U.K. deferred tax assets of $6.0 million, or $0.07 per share.
 Our results for the year ended December 31, 2010 include a gain of $5.3 million ($3.6 million after-tax), or $0.04 per
share, relating to a gain on the sale of an investment, a gain of $1.6 million ($1.1 million after-tax), or $0.01 per share, relating to the repurchase of $155.7 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes,
and a charge of $4.1 million ($2.8 million after-tax), or $0.03 per share, associated with costs related to franchise closure and relocation costs. 
  31 


Table of Contents
Our results for the year ended December 31, 2009 include a gain of $10.4 million ($6.5
million after-tax), or $0.07 per share, relating to the repurchase of $68.7 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes and charges of $5.2 million ($3.4 million after-tax), or $0.04 per share, relating to
costs associated with the termination of the acquisition of the Saturn brand, our election to close three franchises in the U.S. and charges relating to our interest rate hedges of variable rate floor plan notes payable as a result of decreases in
our vehicle inventories, and resulting decreases in outstanding floor plan notes payable, below hedged levels.  Retail unit
sales of new vehicles during the year ended December 31, 2009 include approximately 9,500 units sold under government incentive programs in the markets where we have retail operations.  New Vehicle Data   




































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2010 vs. 2009
 

New Vehicle Data
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 

 New retail unit sales
 
 
154,829
  
 
 
150,164
  
 
 
4,665
  
 
 
3.1
% 
 
 
150,164
  
 
 
135,393
  
 
 
14,771
  
 
 
10.9
% 

 Same-store new retail unit sales
 
 
146,004
  
 
 
146,419
  
 
 
(415
) 
 
 
-0.3
% 
 
 
144,587
  
 
 
134,819
  
 
 
9,768
  
 
 
7.2
% 

 New retail sales revenue
 
$
5,811.1
  
 
$
5,276.4
  
 
$
534.7
  
 
 
10.1
% 
 
$
5,276.4
  
 
$
4,481.7
  
 
$
794.7
  
 
 
17.7
% 

 Same-store new retail sales revenue
 
$
5,429.1
  
 
$
5,143.3
  
 
$
285.8
  
 
 
5.6
% 
 
$
5,050.9
  
 
$
4,442.8
  
 
$
608.1
  
 
 
13.7
% 

 New retail sales revenue per unit
 
$
37,532
  
 
$
35,137
  
 
$
2,395
  
 
 
6.8
% 
 
$
35,137
  
 
$
33,101
  
 
$
2,036
  
 
 
6.2
% 

 Same-store new retail sales revenue per unit
 
$
37,184
  
 
$
35,127
  
 
$
2,057
  
 
 
5.9
% 
 
$
34,934
  
 
$
32,954
  
 
$
1,980
  
 
 
6.0
% 

 Gross profit — new
 
$
483.0
  
 
$
434.8
  
 
$
48.2
  
 
 
11.1
% 
 
$
434.8
  
 
$
362.5
  
 
$
72.3
  
 
 
19.9
% 

 Same-store gross profit — new
 
$
451.8
  
 
$
423.6
  
 
$
28.2
  
 
 
6.7
% 
 
$
414.2
  
 
$
358.1
  
 
$
56.1
  
 
 
15.7
% 

 Average gross profit per new vehicle retailed
 
$
3,120
  
 
$
2,896
  
 
$
224
  
 
 
7.7
% 
 
$
2,896
  
 
$
2,677
  
 
$
219
  
 
 
8.2
% 

 Same-store average gross profit per new vehicle retailed
 
$
3,095
  
 
$
2,893
  
 
$
202
  
 
 
7.0
% 
 
$
2,865
  
 
$
2,656
  
 
$
209
  
 
 
7.9
% 

 Gross margin% — new
 
 
8.3
% 
 
 
8.2
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
1.2
% 
 
 
8.2
% 
 
 
8.1
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
1.2
% 

 Same-store gross margin% — new
 
 
8.3
% 
 
 
8.2
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
1.2
% 
 
 
8.2
% 
 
 
8.1
% 
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
1.2
% 
 Units  Retail unit sales of new vehicles increased 4,665 units, or 3.1%, from 2010 to 2011, and increased 14,771 units, or 10.9%, from 2009 to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due to a
5,080 unit increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year, offset by a 415 unit, or 0.3%, decrease in same-store new retail unit sales. The same-store decrease from 2010 to 2011 was due primarily to unit sales decreases in our
volume foreign brand stores in the U.S. and U.K. We believe that such decreases were substantially due to the impact of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to a 9,768 unit, or 7.2%, increase in same-store
new retail unit sales, coupled with a 5,003 unit increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same-store increase from 2009 to 2010 was due primarily to unit sales increases in our volume foreign and domestic brand stores in
the U.S. and premium brand stores in the U.S. and U.K.  Revenues 
New vehicle retail sales revenue increased $534.7 million, or 10.1%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased $794.7 million, or 17.7%, from 2009
to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due to a $285.8 million, or 5.6%, increase in same-store revenues, coupled with a $248.9 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same-store revenue increase is due
primarily to a $2,057, or 5.9%, increase in average selling prices per unit which increased revenue by $300.3 million, offset by the 0.3% decrease in new retail unit sales, which decreased revenue by $14.5 million. The increase from 2009
to 2010 is due to a $608.1 million, or 13.7%, increase in same-store revenues, coupled with a $186.6 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same-store revenue increase is due primarily to the 7.2% increase in new
retail unit sales, which increased revenue by $341.2 million, coupled with a $1,980, or 6.0%, increase in comparative average selling price per unit which increased revenue by $266.9 million. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Gross Profit  Retail gross profit from new vehicle sales increased $48.2 million, or 11.1%, from 2010 to 2011, and increased $72.3 million, or 19.9%, from 2009 to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due
to a $28.2 million, or 6.7%, increase in same-store gross profit, coupled with a $20.0 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same-store increase is due primarily to a $202, or 7.0%, increase in the average
gross profit per new vehicle retailed, which increased gross profit by $29.4 million, offset by a 0.3% decrease in retail unit sales, which decreased gross profit by $1.2 million. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to a $56.1 million,
or 15.7%, increase in same-store gross profit, coupled by a $16.2 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same-store retail gross profit increase is due to the 7.2% increase in retail unit sales, which increased
gross profit by $28.0 million, coupled with a $209, or 7.9%, increase in average gross profit per new vehicle retailed, which increased gross profit by $28.1 million.  Used Vehicle Data   




































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2010 vs. 2009
 

Used Vehicle Data
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Used retail unit sales
 
 
129,652
  
 
 
110,083
  
 
 
19,569
  
 
 
17.8
% 
 
 
110,083
  
 
 
99,038
  
 
 
11,045
  
 
 
11.2
% 

 Same-store used retail unit sales
 
 
122,515
  
 
 
107,500
  
 
 
15,015
  
 
 
14.0
% 
 
 
106,420
  
 
 
98,408
  
 
 
8,012
  
 
 
8.1
% 

 Used retail sales revenue
 
$
3,400.0
  
 
$
2,857.9
  
 
$
542.1
  
 
 
19.0
% 
 
$
2,857.9
  
 
$
2,524.4
  
 
$
333.5
  
 
 
13.2
% 

 Same-store used retail sales revenue
 
$
3,219.8
  
 
$
2,800.6
  
 
$
419.2
  
 
 
15.0
% 
 
$
2,744.4
  
 
$
2,486.8
  
 
$
257.6
  
 
 
10.4
% 

 Used retail sales revenue per unit
 
$
26,224
  
 
$
25,962
  
 
$
262
  
 
 
1.0
% 
 
$
25,962
  
 
$
25,489
  
 
$
473
  
 
 
1.9
% 

 Same-store used retail sales revenue per unit
 
$
26,281
  
 
$
26,052
  
 
$
229
  
 
 
0.9
% 
 
$
25,788
  
 
$
25,270
  
 
$
518
  
 
 
2.0
% 

 Gross profit — used
 
$
263.5
  
 
$
220.5
  
 
$
43.0
  
 
 
19.5
% 
 
$
220.5
  
 
$
218.0
  
 
$
2.5
  
 
 
1.1
% 

 Same-store gross profit — used
 
$
251.9
  
 
$
218.1
  
 
$
33.8
  
 
 
15.5
% 
 
$
214.9
  
 
$
215.4
  
 
$
(0.5
) 
 
 
-0.2
% 

 Average gross profit per used vehicle retailed
 
$
2,032
  
 
$
2,003
  
 
$
29
  
 
 
1.4
% 
 
$
2,003
  
 
$
2,201
  
 
$
(198
) 
 
 
-9.0
% 

 Same-store average gross profit per used vehicle retailed
 
$
2,056
  
 
$
2,029
  
 
$
27
  
 
 
1.3
% 
 
$
2,019
  
 
$
2,189
  
 
$
(170
) 
 
 
-7.8
% 

 Gross margin % — used
 
 
7.7
% 
 
 
7.7
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
7.7
% 
 
 
8.6
% 
 
 
-0.9
% 
 
 
-10.5
% 

 Same-store gross margin % —used
 
 
7.8
% 
 
 
7.8
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
7.8
% 
 
 
8.7
% 
 
 
-0.9
% 
 
 
-10.3
% 
 Units  Retail unit sales of used vehicles increased 19,569 units, or 17.8%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased 11,045 units, or 11.2%, from 2009 to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due to a 15,015,
or 14.0%, increase in same-store used retail unit sales, coupled with a 4,554 unit increase from net dealership acquisitions. The same store increase was due primarily to unit sales increases in premium and volume foreign brand stores in the
U.S. and premium brands in the U.K. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to a 8,012, or 8.1%, increase in same-store used retail unit sales, coupled with a 3,033 unit increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same-store
increase in 2010 versus 2009 was due primarily to unit sales increases in premium and volume foreign brand stores in the U.S. 
Revenues 
Used vehicle retail sales revenue increased $542.1 million, or 19.0%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased $333.5 million, or 13.2%,
from 2009 to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due to a $419.2 million, or 15.0%, increase in same-store revenues, coupled with a $122.9 million increase from net dealership acquisitions

  33 


Table of Contents

during the year. The same store revenue increase is due to the 14.0% increase in same store retail unit sales, which increased revenue by $394.6 million, coupled with a $229, or 0.9%,
increase in comparative average selling price per unit, which increased revenue by $24.6 million. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to a $257.6 million, or 10.4%, increase in same-store revenues, coupled with a $75.9 million
increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same-store revenue increase is due to the 8.1% increase in retail unit sales, which increased revenue by $206.6 million, coupled with a $518, or 2.0%, increase in comparative
average selling price per vehicle, which increased revenue by $51.0 million.  Gross Profit 
Retail gross profit from used vehicle sales increased $43.0 million, or 19.5%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased $2.5 million, or
1.1%, from 2009 to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due to a $33.8 million, or 15.5%, increase in same store gross profit, coupled with a $9.2 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The increase in same store
gross profit is primarily due to the 14.0% increase in used retail unit sales, which increased gross profit by $30.9 million, coupled with a $27, or 1.3%, increase in average gross profit per used vehicle retailed, which increased gross profit
by $2.9 million. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to a $3.0 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year, offset by a $0.5 million or 0.2%, decrease in same-store gross profit. The same-store gross profit decrease is
primarily due to a $170, or 7.8%, decrease in average gross profit per used vehicle retailed, which decreased gross profit by $16.7 million, offset by the 8.1% increase in used retail unit sales, which increased gross profit by $16.2 million.
 Finance and Insurance Data   




































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2010 vs. 2009
 

Finance and Insurance Data
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Total retail unit sales
 
 
284,481
  
 
 
260,247
  
 
 
24,234
  
 
 
9.3
% 
 
 
260,247
  
 
 
234,431
  
 
 
25,816
  
 
 
11.0
% 

 Total same-store retail unit sales
 
 
268,519
  
 
 
253,919
  
 
 
14,600
  
 
 
5.7
% 
 
 
251,007
  
 
 
233,227
  
 
 
17,780
  
 
 
7.6
% 

 Finance and insurance revenue
 
$
278.0
  
 
$
244.7
  
 
$
33.3
  
 
 
13.6
% 
 
$
244.7
  
 
$
215.0
  
 
$
29.7
  
 
 
13.8
% 

 Same-store finance and insurance revenue
 
$
266.5
  
 
$
240.4
  
 
$
26.1
  
 
 
10.9
% 
 
$
237.3
  
 
$
213.5
  
 
$
23.8
  
 
 
11.1
% 

 Finance and insurance revenue per unit
 
$
977
  
 
$
940
  
 
$
37
  
 
 
3.9
% 
 
$
940
  
 
$
917
  
 
$
23
  
 
 
2.5
% 

 Same-store finance and insurance revenue per unit
 
$
992
  
 
$
947
  
 
$
45
  
 
 
4.8
% 
 
$
945
  
 
$
915
  
 
$
30
  
 
 
3.3
% 
 Finance and insurance revenue increased $33.3 million, or 13.6%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased
$29.7 million, or 13.8%, from 2009 to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due to a $26.1 million, or 10.9%, increase in same-store revenues, coupled with a $7.2 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year.
The same-store revenue increase is due to a 5.7% increase in retail unit sales, which increased revenue by $14.6 million, coupled with a $45, or 4.8%, increase in comparative average finance and insurance revenue per unit, which increased
revenue by $11.5 million. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to a $23.8 million, or 11.1%, increase in same-store revenues, coupled with a $5.9 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same-store
revenue increase is due to a 7.6% increase in retail unit sales, which increased revenue by $16.8 million, coupled with a $30, or 3.3%, increase in comparative average finance and insurance revenue per unit retailed, which increased revenue by
$7.0 million. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Service and Parts Data 
 




































 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2010 vs. 2009
 

Service and Parts Data
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Service and parts revenue
  
$
1,395.0
  
 
$
1,301.8
  
 
$
93.2
  
 
 
7.2
% 
 
$
1,301.8
  
 
$
1,272.9
  
 
$
28.9
  
 
 
2.3
% 

 Same-store service and parts revenue
  
$
1,315.1
  
 
$
1,274.2
  
 
$
40.9
  
 
 
3.2
% 
 
$
1,258.8
  
 
$
1,260.8
  
 
$
(2.0
) 
 
 
-0.2
% 

 Gross profit
  
$
795.3
  
 
$
737.3
  
 
$
58.0
  
 
 
7.9
% 
 
$
737.3
  
 
$
699.6
  
 
$
37.7
  
 
 
5.4
% 

 Same-store gross profit
  
$
750.7
  
 
$
721.9
  
 
$
28.8
  
 
 
4.0
% 
 
$
713.2
  
 
$
693.3
  
 
$
19.9
  
 
 
2.9
% 

 Gross margin
  
 
57.0
% 
 
 
56.6
% 
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
 
 
56.6
% 
 
 
55.0
% 
 
 
1.6
% 
 
 
2.9
% 

 Same-store gross margin
  
 
57.1
% 
 
 
56.7
% 
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
0.7
% 
 
 
56.7
% 
 
 
55.0
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
3.1
% 
 Revenues  Service and parts revenue increased $93.2 million, or 7.2%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased $28.9 million, or 2.3%, from 2009 to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due to a
$52.3 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year, coupled with a $40.9 million, or 3.2%, increase in same-store revenues during the year. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to a $30.9 million increase from
net dealership acquisitions during the year, offset by a $2.0 million, or 0.2%, decrease in same-store revenues. We believe the year over year increase experienced from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to increased customer demand as a result of
an aging vehicle population and improving economic conditions.  Gross Profit 
Service and parts gross profit increased $58.0 million, or 7.9%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased $37.7 million, or 5.4%, from
2009 to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due to a $29.2 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year, coupled with a $28.8 million, or 4.0%, increase in same-store gross profit. The same-store gross profit
increase is due to the $40.9 million, or 3.2%, increase in same store revenues, which increased gross profit by $23.3 million, coupled with a 0.4% increase in gross margin percentage, which increased gross profit by $5.5 million. The
increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to a $19.9 million, or 2.9%, increase in same-store gross profit, coupled with a $17.8 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same-store gross profit increase is due to a
1.7% increase in gross margin percentage, which increased gross profit by $21.0 million, offset by the $2.0 million, or 0.2%, decrease in revenues, which decreased gross profit by $1.1 million. Service and parts margin in 2010 was
positively impacted by significant Toyota recall actions.  Selling, General and Administrative 
Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased $139.2 million, or 10.4%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased
$84.6 million, or 6.7%, from 2009 to 2010. The aggregate increase from 2010 to 2011 is due primarily to a $91.6 million, or 7.0%, increase in same-store SG&A expenses, coupled with a $47.6 million increase from net dealership acquisitions
during the year. The increase in same-store SG&A expenses from 2010 to 2011 is due to a net increase in variable selling expenses, including increases in variable compensation, as a result of a 7.3% increase in same-store retail gross profit
versus the prior year, as well as increased rent and other related costs. The aggregate increase from 2009 to 2010 is due primarily to a $49.0 million, or 3.9%, increase in same-store SG&A expenses, coupled with a $35.6 million increase
from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The increase in same-store SG&A expenses from 2009 to 2010 is due to (1) a net increase in variable selling expenses, including increases in variable compensation, as a result of a 6.7%
increase in same-store retail gross profit versus the prior year, (2) increased rent and other related costs, and (3) costs related to franchise closures and relocations, offset by a gain on the sale of an investment. 
SG&A expenses as a percentage of total revenue were 12.8%, 13.0% and 13.9% in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, and as a percentage
of gross profit were 81.0%, 81.4%, and 83.2% in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Depreciation  Depreciation increased $2.7 million, or 5.7%, from 2010 to 2011 and decreased $5.1 million, or 10.0%, from 2009 to 2010. The increase from 2010 to 2011 is due to a $1.3 million, or 2.9%,
increase in same-store depreciation, coupled with a $1.4 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same store increase is primarily related to our ongoing facility improvement and expansion programs. The decrease from
2009 to 2010 is due to a $6.3 million, or 12.2%, decrease in same-store depreciation, offset by a $1.2 million increase from net dealership acquisitions during the year. The same store decrease was primarily due to a change in the estimated
useful lives of certain fixed assets effective January 1, 2010.  Floor Plan Interest Expense 
Floor plan interest expense, including the impact of swap transactions, decreased $5.3 million, or 15.6%, from 2010 to 2011 and
decreased $0.3 million, or 0.9%, from 2009 to 2010. The decrease from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to a $6.5 million, or 19.6%, decrease in same-store floor plan interest expense, offset by a $1.2 million increase from net dealership
acquisitions. The same store decrease is due to lower effective interest rates in 2011 primarily due to the expiration of interest rate swaps in January 2011 somewhat offset by higher average outstanding floor plan balances in 2011. The decrease
from 2009 to 2010 is primarily due to a $0.9 million, or 2.9%, decrease in same-store floor plan interest expense, offset by a $0.6 million increase from net dealership acquisitions. The same store decrease is due in large part to decreases in
average outstanding floor plan balances and lower applicable rates.  Other Interest Expense 
Other interest expense decreased $4.2 million, or 8.5%, from 2010 to 2011 and decreased $5.9 million, or 10.7%, from 2009 to
2010. The decrease from 2010 to 2011 is due to repurchases of our 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes and term loan repayments, offset by increased average borrowings on the revolving credit line under the U.S. credit agreement. The decrease
from 2009 to 2010 is due primarily to the repurchases of $155.7 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes and $15.0 million of repayments of our term loan under the U.S. credit agreement during the year ended December 31, 2010.
 Debt Discount Amortization  Debt discount amortization decreased $6.9 million, or 80.1%, from 2010 to 2011 and decreased $4.4 million, or 33.8%, from 2009 to 2010. The decreases from 2010 to 2011 and 2009 to 2010 were both primarily
due to repurchases of our 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes during 2011 and 2010.  Equity in Earnings of Affiliates
 Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $4.9 million, or 23.7%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased $6.8 million, or 49.0%,
from 2009 to 2010. The increases from 2010 to 2011 and 2009 to 2010 were both primarily attributable to an improvement in PTL’s financial results. Our share of PTL profits increased $6.0 million, or 38.7%, from 2010 to 2011 and $5.3 million, or
51.5%, from 2009 to 2010.  Gain on Debt Repurchase  During 2010, we repurchased $155.7 million principal amount of 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes, which had a book value, net of debt discount, of $149.1 million for $156.6 million. We allocated
$10.2 million of the total consideration to the reacquisition of the equity component of the convertible notes. In connection with the transactions, we wrote off $0.7 million of unamortized deferred financing costs. As a result, we recorded $1.6
million of pre-tax gains in connection with the repurchases.  During 2009, we repurchased $68.7 million principal amount of
our outstanding 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes, which had a book value, net of debt discount, of $62.8 million for $51.4 million. In connection 
  36 


Table of Contents

with the transaction, we wrote off $0.7 million of unamortized deferred financing costs, and incurred $0.3 million of transaction costs. No element of the consideration was allocated to the
reacquisition of the equity component because the consideration paid was less than the fair value of the liability component prior to extinguishment. As a result, we recorded a $10.4 million pre-tax gain in connection with the repurchase.
 Income Taxes 
Income taxes increased $7.2 million, or 11.1%, from 2010 to 2011 and increased $21.7 million, or 50.3%, from 2009 to 2010. The 2011
results include a net benefit of $11.0 million from the resolution of certain tax items in the U.K. offset by reductions in U.K. deferred tax assets. Adjusting for these items, income taxes increased $18.2 million, or 28.1%, from 2010 to 2011, due
to an increase in our pre-tax income versus prior year. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to the increase in our pre-tax income versus the prior year, partially offset by a 1.1% decrease in our annual tax rate. 
Liquidity and Capital Resources  Our cash requirements are primarily for working capital, inventory financing, the acquisition of new businesses, the improvement and expansion of existing facilities, the purchase or construction of new
facilities, debt service and repayments, and potentially for dividends and repurchases of our outstanding securities under the program discussed below. Historically, these cash requirements have been met through cash flow from operations, borrowings
under our credit agreements and floor plan arrangements, the issuance of debt securities, sale-leaseback transactions, mortgages, dividends and distributions from joint venture investments or the issuance of equity securities. 
We have historically expanded our retail automotive operations through organic growth and the acquisition of retail automotive
dealerships. We believe that cash flow from operations, dividends and distributions from our joint venture investments and our existing capital resources, including the liquidity provided by our credit agreements and floor plan financing
arrangements, will be sufficient to fund our operations and commitments for at least the next twelve months. In the event we pursue significant acquisitions, other expansion opportunities, significant repurchases of our outstanding securities, or
refinance or repay existing debt, we may need to raise additional capital either through the public or private issuance of equity or debt securities or through additional borrowings, which sources of funds may not necessarily be available on terms
acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our liquidity could be negatively impacted in the event we fail to comply with the covenants under our various financing and operating agreements or in the event our floor plan financing is withdrawn.
 As of December 31, 2011, we had working capital of $42.9 million, including $29.1 million of cash, available to fund our
operations and capital commitments. In addition, we had $219.3 million and £63.4 million ($98.5 million) available for borrowing under our U.S. credit agreement and our U.K. credit agreement, respectively. 
Securities Repurchases  From time to time, our Board of Directors has authorized securities repurchase programs pursuant to which we may, as market conditions warrant, purchase our outstanding common stock, debt or convertible
debt on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, via a tender offer, or through a pre-arranged trading plan. We have historically funded any such repurchases using cash flow from operations and borrowings under our U.S. credit
facility. The decision to make repurchases will be based on factors such as the market price of the relevant security versus our view of its intrinsic value, the potential impact of such repurchases on our capital structure, and our consideration of
any alternative uses of our capital, such as for strategic investments in our current businesses, in addition to any then-existing limits imposed by our finance agreements and securities trading policy. 
  37 


Table of Contents
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased 2,449,768 shares of our common
stock, including 2,400,301 shares on the open market for a total of $44.3 million, or $18.07 per share. The remaining 49,467 shares of common stock were repurchased for $1.0 million, or $20.08 per share, from employees using a net share settlement
feature of employee restricted stock awards. As of December 31, 2011, we have $106.8 million in authorization under the existing securities repurchase program.  We also repurchased $87.3 million of convertible notes in April 2011 pursuant to the holder’s 2011 put right, noting that these repurchases were accomplished pursuant to the terms of the convertible
notes and not the authority noted above. See below “Convertible Notes”.  Dividends 
We paid the following cash dividends on our common stock in 2011: 
 








 Per Share Dividends
 

 2011
  
 
 

 Second Quarter
  
$
  0.07
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
0.08
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
 
0.09
  
 We also have announced a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on March 1, 2012 to shareholders
of record on February 10, 2012. Future quarterly or other cash dividends will depend upon a variety of factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors which may include our earnings, capital requirements, restrictions relating to any
then-existing indebtedness, financial condition, and other factors.  Inventory Financing 
We finance substantially all of our new and a portion of our used vehicle inventories under revolving floor plan arrangements with various
lenders, including a majority through captive finance companies associated with automotive manufacturers. In the U.S., the floor plan arrangements are due on demand; however, we have not historically been required to repay floor plan advances prior
to the sale of the vehicles that have been financed. We typically make monthly interest payments on the amount financed. Outside of the U.S., substantially all of our floor plan arrangements are payable on demand or have an original maturity of
90 days or less and we are generally required to repay floor plan advances at the earlier of the sale of the vehicles that have been financed or the stated maturity.  The floor plan agreements typically grant a security interest in substantially all of the assets of our dealership subsidiaries, and in the U.S. are guaranteed by us. Interest rates under the floor plan
arrangements are variable and increase or decrease based on changes in the prime rate, defined LIBOR, Finance House Base Rate, or Euro Interbank Offered Rate. To date, we have not experienced any material limitation with respect to the amount or
availability of financing from any institution providing us vehicle financing. We also receive non-refundable credits from certain of our vehicle manufacturers, which are treated as a reduction of cost of sales as vehicles are sold. 
U.S. Credit Agreement  We are party to a credit agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services USA LLC and Toyota Motor Credit Corporation, as amended (the “U.S. credit agreement”), which provides for up to
$375.0 million in revolving loans for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, investments and other general corporate purposes, a non-amortizing term loan with a balance of $127.0 million, and for an additional $10.0 million
of availability for letters of credit, through September 2014. The revolving loans bear interest at a defined LIBOR plus 2.50%, subject to an incremental 1.0% for uncollateralized borrowings in excess of a defined borrowing base. The term loan,
which bears interest at defined LIBOR plus 2.50%, may be prepaid at any time, but then may not be re-borrowed. We repaid $7.0 million of the term loan during 2011. 
  38 


Table of Contents
The U.S. credit agreement is fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several
basis by our domestic subsidiaries and contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, repay other indebtedness, pay dividends, create liens on assets,
make investments or acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. We are also required to comply with specified financial and other tests and ratios, each as defined in the U.S. credit agreement including: a ratio of current assets to
current liabilities, a fixed charge coverage ratio, a ratio of debt to stockholders’ equity and a ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). A breach of these requirements would give
rise to certain remedies under the agreement, the most severe of which is the termination of the agreement and acceleration of any amounts owed. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all covenants under the U.S. credit agreement,
and we believe we will remain in compliance with such covenants for the next twelve months. In making such determination, we have considered the current margin of compliance with the covenants and our expected future results of operations, working
capital requirements, acquisitions, capital expenditures and investments. See Item 1A – “Risk Factors” and “Forward Looking Statements”.  The U.S. credit agreement also contains typical events of default, including change of control, non-payment of obligations and cross-defaults to our other material indebtedness. Substantially all of our
domestic assets are subject to security interests granted to lenders under the U.S. credit agreement. As of December 31, 2011, $127.0 million of term loans, $0.5 million of letters of credit, and $132.0 million of revolver borrowings were
outstanding under the U.S. credit agreement.  U.K. Credit Agreement 
Our subsidiaries in the U.K. (the “U.K. subsidiaries”) are party to £100 million revolving credit agreement with the
Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, and an additional £10 million demand overdraft line of credit with RBS (collectively, the “U.K. credit agreement”) to be used for working capital,
acquisitions, capital expenditures, investments and general corporate purposes through November 2015. The revolving loans bear interest between defined LIBOR plus 1.35% and defined LIBOR plus 3.0% and the demand overdraft line of credit bears
interest at the Bank of England Base Rate plus 1.75%. As of December 31, 2011, outstanding loans under the U.K. credit agreement amounted to £46.6 million ($72.4 million). 
The U.K. Credit Agreement is fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by our U.K. subsidiaries, and contains a
number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of our U.K. subsidiaries to pay dividends, dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, repay other indebtedness, create liens on assets, make investments or
acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. In addition, our U.K. subsidiaries are required to comply with defined ratios and tests, including: a ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, amortization, and rental payments
(“EBITAR”) to interest plus rental payments, a measurement of maximum capital expenditures, and a debt to EBITDA ratio. A breach of these requirements would give rise to certain remedies under the agreement, the most severe of which is the
termination of the agreement and acceleration of any amounts owed. As of December 31, 2011, our U.K. subsidiaries were in compliance with all covenants under the U.K. credit agreement and we believe they will remain in compliance with such
covenants for the next twelve months. In making such determination, we considered the current margin of compliance with the covenants and our expected future results of operations, working capital requirements, acquisitions, capital expenditures and
investments in the U.K. See Item 1A – “Risk Factors” and “Forward Looking Statements”.  The U.K.
credit agreement also contains typical events of default, including change of control and non-payment of obligations and cross-defaults to other material indebtedness of our U.K. subsidiaries. Substantially all of our U.K. subsidiaries’ assets
are subject to security interests granted to lenders under the U.K. credit agreement.  In January 2012, our U.K. subsidiaries
entered into a separate agreement with RBS, as agent for National Westminster Bank plc, providing for a £30 million term loan which was used for working capital and an 
  39 


Table of Contents

acquisition. The term loan is repayable in £1.5 million quarterly installments through 2015 with a final payment of £7.5 million due December 31, 2015. The term loan
bears interest between 2.675% and 4.325%, depending on the U.K. subsidiaries’ ratio of net borrowings to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined). 
7.75% Senior Subordinated Notes  In December 2006, we issued $375.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior subordinated notes due 2016 (the “7.75% Notes”). The 7.75% Notes are unsecured senior subordinated
notes and are subordinate to all existing and future senior debt, including debt under our credit agreements, mortgages and floor plan indebtedness. The 7.75% Notes are guaranteed by substantially all of our wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries on an
unsecured senior subordinated basis. Those guarantees are full and unconditional and joint and several. We can redeem all or some of the 7.75% Notes at our option at specified redemption prices (currently 103.875% of the principal amount). Upon
certain sales of assets or specific kinds of changes of control, we are required to make an offer to purchase the 7.75% Notes. The 7.75% Notes also contain customary negative covenants and events of default. As of December 31, 2011, we were in
compliance with all negative covenants and there were no events of default. We expect to remain in compliance during the next twelve months.  Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes  We currently have $63.3
million of Convertible Notes outstanding. We issued the Convertible Notes in January 2006, which mature on April 1, 2026, unless earlier converted, redeemed or purchased by us, as discussed below. The Convertible Notes are unsecured senior
subordinated obligations and are subordinate to all future and existing debt under our credit agreements, mortgages and floor plan indebtedness. The Convertible Notes are guaranteed on an unsecured senior subordinated basis by substantially all of
our wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. The guarantees are full and unconditional and joint and several. The Convertible Notes also contain customary negative covenants and events of default. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with
all negative covenants and there were no events of default. We expect to remain in compliance during the next twelve months. 
Holders of the Convertible Notes may convert them based on a conversion rate of 42.7796 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal
amount of the Convertible Notes (which is equal to a conversion price of approximately $23.38 per share), subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: (1) in any quarterly period, if the closing price of our common stock for
twenty of the last thirty trading days in the prior quarter exceeds $28.05 (subject to adjustment), (2) for specified periods, if the trading price of the Convertible Notes falls below specific thresholds, (3) if the Convertible Notes are
called for redemption, (4) if specified distributions to holders of our common stock are made or specified corporate transactions occur, (5) if a fundamental change (as defined) occurs, or (6) during the ten trading days prior to, but
excluding, the maturity date.  Upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, for each $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible
Notes, a holder will receive an amount in cash, equal to the lesser of (i) $1,000 or (ii) the conversion value, determined in the manner set forth in the indenture covering the Convertible Notes, of the number of shares of common stock
equal to the conversion rate. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, we will also deliver, at our election, cash, common stock or a combination of cash and common stock with respect to the remaining value deliverable upon conversion. We will pay
additional cash interest commencing with six-month periods beginning on April 1, 2011, if the average trading price of a Convertible Note for certain periods in the prior six-month period equals 120% or more of the principal amount of the
Convertible Notes.  We may redeem the Convertible Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, for cash at a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the applicable redemption date, plus any applicable conversion premium. The decision to

  40 


Table of Contents

redeem any of the notes will be based on factors such as the market price of the notes and our common stock, the potential impact of any redemptions on our capital structure, and consideration of
alternate uses of capital, such as for strategic investments in our current business, in addition to any then-existing limits imposed by our finance agreements. In addition, holders of the Convertible Notes have the right to require us to purchase
all or a portion of their Convertible Notes for cash on each of April 1, 2016 or April 1, 2021 at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to
the applicable purchase date, plus any applicable conversion premium.  We repurchased $87.3 million of convertible notes in
April 2011 pursuant to the holder’s 2011 put right.  Mortgage Facilities 
We are party to several mortgages, which bear interest at defined rates and require monthly principal and interest payments. These
mortgage facilities also contain typical events of default, including non-payment of obligations, cross-defaults to our other material indebtedness, certain change of control events and the loss or sale of certain franchises operated at the
properties. Substantially all of the buildings and improvements on the properties financed pursuant to the mortgage facilities are subject to security interests granted to the lender. As of December 31, 2011, we owed $75.7 million of principal
under our mortgage facilities.  Short-term Borrowings 
We have three principal sources of short-term borrowing: the revolving portion of the U.S. credit agreement, the revolving portion of the
U.K. credit agreement, and the floor plan agreements in place that we utilize to finance our vehicle inventories. All of the cash generated in our operations is initially used to pay down our floor plan indebtedness. Over time, we are able to access
availability under the floor plan agreements to fund our cash needs, including payments made relating to our higher interest rate revolving credit agreements.  During 2011, outstanding revolving commitments varied between no balance and $179.6 million under the U.S. credit agreement and between £5.0 million and £62.0 million under the U.K.
credit agreement’s revolving credit line (excluding the overdraft facility), and the amounts outstanding under our floor plan agreements varied based on the timing of the receipt and expenditure of cash in our operations, driven principally by
the levels of our vehicle inventories.  Interest Rate Swaps 
We periodically use interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk associated with our variable rate floor plan debt. We are party to
forward starting interest rate swap agreements beginning January 2012 and maturing December 2014 pursuant to which the LIBOR portion of $400.0 million of our floating rate floor plan debt is fixed at a blended rate of 1.99%. We may terminate these
agreements at any time, subject to the settlement of the then current fair value of the swap arrangements. Our prior interest rate swap agreements which fixed the LIBOR portion of $300.0 million of our floating rate floor plan debt at 3.67%
concluded in January 2011.  PTL Dividends 
We own a 9.0% limited partnership interest in Penske Truck Leasing. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively, we received $7.8 million, $8.8 million, and $20.0 million of pro rata cash distributions relating to this investment. We currently expect to continue to receive future distributions from PTL subject in amount and timing on its
performance.  Operating Leases  We historically structured our operations so as to minimize our ownership of real property. As a result, we lease or sublease substantially all of our facilities. These leases are generally for a period
between five and 20 
  41 


Table of Contents

years, and are typically structured to include renewal options at our election. We estimate our total rent obligations under these leases, including any extension periods we may exercise at our
discretion and assuming constant consumer price indices, to be $4.7 billion. Pursuant to the leases for some of our larger facilities, we are required to comply with specified financial ratios, including a “rent coverage” ratio and a debt
to EBITDA ratio, each as defined. For these leases, non-compliance with the ratios may require us to post collateral in the form of a letter of credit. A breach of our other lease covenants give rise to certain remedies by the landlord, the most
severe of which include the termination of the applicable lease and acceleration of the total rent payments due under the lease. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all covenants under these leases, and we believe we will remain
in compliance with such covenants for the next twelve months.  Sale/Leaseback Arrangements 
We have in the past and may in the future enter into sale-leaseback transactions to finance certain property acquisitions and capital
expenditures, pursuant to which we sell property and/or leasehold improvements to third parties and agree to lease those assets back for a certain period of time. Such sales generated proceeds which varied from period to period. 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have sold a number of dealerships to third parties and, as a condition to certain of those sales, remain liable for the lease payments relating to the properties on which those businesses operate in
the event of non-payment by the buyer. We are also party to lease agreements on properties that we no longer use in our retail operations that we have sublet to third parties. We rely on subtenants to pay the rent and maintain the property at these
locations. In the event a subtenant does not perform as expected, we may not be able to recover amounts owed to us and we could be required to fulfill these obligations. We believe we have made appropriate reserves relating to these locations. The
aggregate rent paid by the tenants on those properties in 2011 was approximately $11.7 million, and, in aggregate, we guarantee or are otherwise liable for approximately $178.9 million of third-party lease payments, including lease payments during
available renewal periods.  Cash Flows  Cash and cash equivalents increased by $9.4 million, $1.5 million and $2.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The major components of these changes
are discussed below.  Cash Flows from Continuing Operating Activities 
Cash provided by continuing operating activities was $122.6 million, $198.4 million, and $302.3 million during the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Cash flows from continuing operating activities includes net income, as adjusted for non-cash items and the effects of changes in working capital. 
We finance substantially all of our new and a portion of our used vehicle inventories under revolving floor plan notes payable with
various lenders. We retain the right to select which, if any, financing source to utilize in connection with the procurement of vehicle inventories. Many vehicle manufacturers provide vehicle financing for the dealers representing their brands,
however, it is not a requirement that we utilize this financing. Historically, our floor plan finance source has been based on aggregate pricing considerations.  In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles relating to the statement of cash flows, we report all cash flows arising in connection with floor plan notes payable with the manufacturer of a
particular new vehicle as an operating activity in our statement of cash flows, and all cash flows arising in connection with floor plan notes payable to a party other than the manufacturer of a particular new vehicle and all floor plan notes
payable relating to pre-owned vehicles as a financing activity in our statement of cash flows. Currently, the majority of our non-trade vehicle financing is with other manufacturer captive lenders. To date, we have not experienced any material
limitation with respect to the amount or availability of financing from any institution providing us vehicle financing. 
  42 


Table of Contents
We believe that changes in aggregate floor plan liabilities are typically linked to changes
in vehicle inventory and, therefore, are an integral part of understanding changes in our working capital and operating cash flow. As a result, we prepare the following reconciliation to highlight our operating cash flows with all changes in vehicle
floor plan being classified as an operating activity for informational purposes:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Net cash from continuing operating activities as reported
  
$
122.6
  
  
$
198.4
  
  
$
302.3
  

 Floor plan notes payable — non-trade as reported
  
 
216.6
  
  
 
80.2
  
  
 
(82.8
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing operating activities including all floor plan notes payable
  
$
339.2
  
  
$
278.6
  
  
$
219.5
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Cash Flows from Continuing Investing Activities 
Cash used in continuing investing activities was $362.4 million, $84.1 million, and $77.4 million during the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Cash flows from continuing investing activities consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures, net expenditures for acquisitions and other investments, and proceeds from sale-leaseback
transactions. Capital expenditures were $133.1 million, $75.7 million, and $89.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Capital expenditures relate primarily to improvements to our existing
dealership facilities, the construction of new facilities and the acquisition of existing leased facilities. As of December 31, 2011, we do not have material commitments related to our planned or ongoing capital projects. We currently expect to
finance our capital expenditures with operating cash flows or borrowings under our U.S. or U.K. credit facilities. Cash used in acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired, was $232.1 million, $22.2 million, and $8.5 million during
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, and included cash used to repay sellers floor plan liabilities in such business acquisitions of $54.5 million, $9.9 million, and $2.9 million, respectively. Proceeds from
sale-leaseback transactions were $2.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2009.  Cash Flows from Continuing
Financing Activities  Cash provided by continuing financing activities was $217.8 million during the year ended
December 31, 2011, and cash used in continuing financing activities was $107.1 million and $211.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash flows from continuing financing activities include net
borrowings or repayments of long-term debt, repurchases of securities, net borrowings or repayments of floor plan notes payable non-trade, payments of deferred financing costs, proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the exercise of stock
options, and dividends. We had net borrowings of long-term debt of $151.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2011, which included borrowings on our U.S. credit agreement revolving loans of $132.0 million, net borrowing on other long
term debt, primarily relating to our mortgage facilities, of $26.4 million, partially offset by a repayment of $7.0 million on our U.S. credit agreement term loan.  We had net repayments of long-term debt of $30.4 million and $77.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which included repayments of $15.0 million and $60.0
million on our U.S. credit agreement term loan. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we used $87.3 million, $156.6 million and $51.4 million to repurchase $87.3 million, $155.7 million and $68.7 million aggregate principal
amount, respectively, of our Convertible Notes. We had net borrowings of floor plan notes payable non-trade of $216.6 million and $80.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and net repayment of floor
plan notes payable non-trade of $82.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. In 2011 and 2010, we repurchased 2.4 million and 68,340 shares of common stock, respectively, for $44.3 million and $0.8 million, respectively. During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we also paid $22.0 million of cash dividends to our stockholders. No cash dividends were paid to our stockholders during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Cash Flows from Discontinued Operations 
Cash flows relating to discontinued operations are not currently considered, nor are they expected to be, material to our liquidity or our
capital resources. Management does not believe that there are any material past, present or upcoming cash transactions relating to discontinued operations.  Contractual Payment Obligations  The table below sets forth our best
estimates as to the amounts and timing of future payments relating to our most significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011, except as otherwise noted. The information in the table reflects future unconditional payments and is
based upon, among other things, the terms of any relevant agreements. Future events, including acquisitions, divestitures, new or revised operating lease agreements, borrowings or repayments under our credit agreements and our floor plan
arrangements, and purchases or refinancing of our securities could cause actual payments to differ significantly from these amounts. Potential payments noted above under “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” are excluded from this table.
  
























 
  
Total
 
  
Less than1 year
 
  
1 to 3 years
 
  
3 to 5 years
 
  
More than5 
years
 

 Floorplan notes payable(A)
  
$
1,702.3
  
  
$
1,702.3
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Long-term debt obligations(B)
  
 
850.2
  
  
 
3.4
  
  
 
265.1
  
  
 
556.5
  
  
 
25.2
  

 Operating lease commitments
  
 
4,691.5
  
  
 
176.9
  
  
 
347.8
  
  
 
340.1
  
  
 
3,826.7
  

 Scheduled interest payments(B)(C)
  
 
175.5
  
  
 
35.1
  
  
 
69.8
  
  
 
65.4
  
  
 
5.2
  

 Other liabilities(D)
  
 
14.9
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
14.9
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
7,434.4
  
  
$
1,917.7
  
  
$
682.7
  
  
$
976.9
  
  
$
3,857.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(A)
Floor plan notes payable are revolving financing arrangements. Payments are generally made as required pursuant to the floor plan borrowing agreements discussed above
under “Inventory Financing.” 


(B)
Interest and principal repayments under our $63.3 million of 3.5% senior subordinated notes due 2026 are reflected in the table above in the column entitled
“3 to 5 years”. While these notes are not due until 2026, the holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes for cash in 2016. 


(C)
Estimates of future variable rate interest payments under floor plan notes payable and our credit agreements are excluded due to our inability to estimate changes in
interest rates in the future. See “Inventory Financing,” “U.S. Credit Agreement,” and “U.K. Credit Agreement” above for a discussion of such variable rates. 


(D)
Includes uncertain tax positions. Due to the subjective nature of our uncertain tax positions, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of
payments arising in connection with the unrecognized tax benefits, however, as a result of the statute of limitations, we do not expect any of these payments to occur in more than 5 years. We have thus classified this as “3 to
5 years.”  We expect that, other than for scheduled payments upon the maturity or termination dates of
certain of our debt instruments, the amounts above will be funded through cash flow from operations. In the case of payments upon the maturity or termination dates of our debt instruments, we currently expect to be able to refinance such instruments
in the normal course of business or otherwise fund them from cash flows from operations or borrowings under our credit agreements.  Related
Party Transactions  Stockholders Agreement 
Several of our directors and officers are affiliated with Penske Corporation or related entities. Roger S. Penske, our Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer, is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Penske Corporation, and through entities affiliated with Penske Corporation, our largest stockholder owning approximately 35% of our outstanding common
stock. Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and Mitsui & Co. 
  44 


Table of Contents

(USA), Inc. (collectively, “Mitsui”) own approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock. Mitsui, Penske Corporation and certain other affiliates of Penske Corporation are parties to
a stockholders agreement pursuant to which the Penske affiliated companies agreed to vote their shares for one director who is a representative of Mitsui. In turn, Mitsui agreed to vote their shares for up to fourteen directors voted for by the
Penske affiliated companies. This agreement terminates in March 2014, upon the mutual consent of the parties, or when either party no longer owns any of our common stock.  Other Related Party Interests and Transactions  Roger S. Penske is
also a managing member of Transportation Resource Partners, an organization that invests in transportation-related industries. Richard J. Peters, one of our directors, is a managing director of Transportation Resource Partners and is a director of
Penske Corporation. Robert H. Kurnick, Jr., our President and a director, is also the President and a director of Penske Corporation.  We sometimes pay to and/or receive fees from Penske Corporation, its subsidiaries, and its affiliates for services rendered in the ordinary course of business, or to reimburse payments made to third
parties on each other’s behalf. These transactions are reviewed periodically by our Audit Committee and reflect the provider’s cost or an amount mutually agreed upon by both parties. 
As discussed above, we are a 9.0% limited partner of PTL, a leading global transportation services provider. The general partner of PTL
is Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Penske Corporation, which together with other wholly-owned subsidiaries of Penske Corporation, owns 41.1% of PTL. The remaining 49.9% of PTL is owned by General Electric Capital
Corporation. Among other things, the partnership agreement provides us with specified partner distribution and governance rights and restricts our ability to transfer our interests. 
We have also entered into other joint ventures with certain related parties as more fully discussed below. 
Joint Venture Relationships  We are party to a number of joint ventures pursuant to which we own and operate automotive dealerships together with other investors. We may provide these dealerships with working capital and other debt
financing at costs that are based on our incremental borrowing rate. As of December 31, 2011, our automotive retail joint venture relationships included:   
















 Location
  
 Dealerships
  
OwnershipInterest
 

 Fairfield, Connecticut
  
Audi, Mercedes-Benz, Porsche, smart
  
 
86.56
% 
 
 
(A
) 

 Las Vegas, Nevada
  
Ferrari, Maserati
  
 
50.00
% 
 
 
(B
) 

 Frankfurt, Germany
  
Lexus, Toyota
  
 
50.00
% 
 
 
(B
) 

 Aachen, Germany
  
Audi, Lexus, Skoda, Toyota, Volkswagen, Citroën
  
 
50.00
% 
 
 
(B
) 
  


(A)
An entity controlled by one of our directors, Lucio A. Noto (the “Investor”), owns a 13.44% interest in this joint venture which entitles the Investor to 20%
of the joint venture’s operating profits. In addition, the Investor has an option to purchase up to a 20% interest in the joint venture for specified amounts. This joint venture is consolidated in our financial statements.



(B)
Entity is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.  In April 2011, we repurchased the remaining 30.0% interest in one of our joint ventures which is now a 100% owned subsidiary. Additionally, during 2010, we exited one of our German joint ventures by
exchanging our 50% interest in the joint venture for 100% ownership in three BMW franchises previously held by the joint venture. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Cyclicality  Unit sales of motor vehicles, particularly new vehicles, have been cyclical historically, fluctuating with general economic cycles. During economic downturns, the automotive retailing industry tends to
experience periods of decline and recession similar to those experienced by the general economy. We believe that the industry is influenced by general economic conditions and particularly by consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary
spending, fuel prices, interest rates and credit availability.  Seasonality 
Our business is modestly seasonal overall. Our U.S. operations generally experience higher volumes of vehicle sales in the second and
third quarters of each year due in part to consumer buying trends and the introduction of new vehicle models. Also, vehicle demand, and to a lesser extent demand for service and parts, is generally lower during the winter months than in other
seasons, particularly in regions of the U.S. where dealerships may be subject to severe winters. Our U.K. operations generally experience higher volumes of vehicle sales in the first and third quarters of each year, due primarily to vehicle
registration practices in the U.K.  Effects of Inflation  We believe that inflation rates over the last few years have not had a significant impact on revenues or profitability. We do not expect inflation to have any near-term material effects on the sale of our
products and services; however, we cannot be sure there will be no such effect in the future. We finance substantially all of our inventory through various revolving floor plan arrangements with interest rates that vary based on various benchmarks.
Such rates have historically increased during periods of increasing inflation.  Forward-Looking Statements 
This annual report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements generally can be
identified by the use of terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “predict,”
“potential,” “forecast,” “continue” or variations of such terms, or the use of these terms in the negative. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our current plans, forecasts, estimates, beliefs or
expectations, including, without limitation, statements with respect to:   


 
•
 
 our future financial and operating performance;   


 
•
 
 future acquisitions and dispositions;   


 
•
 
 future potential capital expenditures and securities repurchases; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to realize cost savings and synergies;   


 
•
 
 our ability to respond to economic cycles;   


 
•
 
 trends in the automotive retail industry and in the general economy in the various countries in which we operate; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to access the remaining availability under our credit agreements; 
 


 
•
 
 our liquidity;   


 
•
 
 performance of joint ventures, including PTL;   


 
•
 
 future foreign exchange rates;   


 
•
 
 the outcome of various legal proceedings:   


 
•
 
 trends affecting our future financial condition or results of operations; and 
 


 
•
 
 our business strategy. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and are not
assurances of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results due to a variety of factors, including the factors identified under “Item 1A. — Risk Factors.” Important factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include those mentioned in “Item 1A. — Risk Factors” such as the following:   


 
•
 
 our business and the automotive retail industry in general are susceptible to adverse economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, foreign
exchange rates, consumer demand, consumer confidence, fuel prices, unemployment rates and credit availability;   


 
•
 
 the number of new and used vehicles sold in our markets; 
 


 
•
 
 automobile manufacturers exercise significant control over our operations, and we depend on them and continuation of our franchise agreements in order
to operate our business;   


 
•
 
 we depend on the success, popularity and availability of the brands we sell, and adverse conditions affecting one or more automobile manufacturers,
such as the impact on the vehicle and parts supply chain due to natural disasters such as the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan in March 2011, may negatively impact our revenues and profitability; 
 


 
•
 
 a restructuring of any significant automotive manufacturers or automotive suppliers; 
 


 
•
 
 our dealership operations may be affected by severe weather or other periodic business interruptions; 
 


 
•
 
 we may not be able to satisfy our capital requirements for acquisitions, dealership renovation projects, financing the purchase of our inventory, or
refinancing of our debt when it becomes due;   


 
•
 
 our level of indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain financing generally and may require that a significant portion of our cash flow be used for
debt service;   


 
•
 
 non-compliance with the financial ratios and other covenants under our credit agreements and operating leases; 
 


 
•
 
 our operations outside of the U.S. subject our profitability to fluctuations relating to changes in foreign currency valuations;
  


 
•
 
 import product restrictions and foreign trade risks that may impair our ability to sell foreign vehicles profitably; 
 


 
•
 
 with respect to PTL, changes in the financial health of its customers, labor strikes or work stoppages by its employees, a reduction in PTL’s
asset utilization rates and industry competition which could impact distributions to us;   


 
•
 
 we are dependent on continued availability of our information technology systems; 
 


 
•
 
 if we lose key personnel, especially our Chief Executive Officer, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel;
  


 
•
 
 new or enhanced regulations relating to automobile dealerships; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in tax, financial or regulatory rules or requirements; 
 


 
•
 
 we are subject to numerous legal and administrative proceedings which, if the outcomes are adverse to us, could have a material adverse effect on our
business;   


 
•
 
 if state dealer laws in the U.S. are repealed or weakened, our automotive dealerships may be subject to increased competition and may be more
susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their franchise agreements; and   


 
•
 
 some of our directors and officers may have conflicts of interest with respect to certain related party transactions and other business interests.

  47 


Table of Contents
In addition: 
 


 
•
 
 the price of our common stock is subject to substantial fluctuation, which may be unrelated to our performance; and 
 


 
•
 
 shares eligible for future sale, or issuable under the terms of our convertible notes, may cause the market price of our common stock to drop
significantly, even if our business is doing well.  We urge you to carefully consider these risk factors and
further information under Item 1A-“Risk Factors” in evaluating all forward-looking statements regarding our business. Readers of this report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this
report. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws and the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and
regulations, we have no intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.   


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  Interest Rates. We are exposed to market risk from changes in the interest rates on a significant portion of our outstanding debt. Outstanding revolving balances under our credit agreements bear
interest at variable rates based on a margin over defined LIBOR or the Bank of England Base Rate. Based on the amount outstanding under these facilities as of December 31, 2011, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in an
approximate $3.3 million change to our annual other interest expense. Similarly, amounts outstanding under floor plan financing arrangements bear interest at a variable rate based on a margin over the prime rate, defined LIBOR, the Finance
House Base Rate, or the Euro Interbank Offered Rate. During 2009, 2010 and into January 2011, the Company was party to interest rate swap agreements pursuant to which the LIBOR portion of $300.0 million of the Company’s floating rate floor plan
debt was fixed at 3.67%. In 2011, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements beginning January 2012 and maturing December 2014 pursuant to which the LIBOR portion of $300.0 million of our floating rate floor plan debt is fixed at
a rate of 2.135% and $100.0 million of our floating rate floor plan debt is fixed at a rate of 1.55%. Based on an average of the aggregate amounts outstanding under our floor plan financing arrangements subject to variable interest payments during
the year ended December 31, 2011, including consideration of the notional value of the swap agreements, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in an approximate $14.9 million change to our annual floor plan interest
expense.  We evaluate our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and follow established policies and procedures to implement
strategies designed to manage the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding at any point in time in an effort to mitigate the effect of interest rate fluctuations on our earnings and cash flows. These policies include: 
 


 
•
 
 the maintenance of our overall debt portfolio with targeted fixed and variable rate components; 
 


 
•
 
 the use of authorized derivative instruments;   


 
•
 
 the prohibition of using derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes; and 
 


 
•
 
 the prohibition of highly leveraged derivatives or derivatives which we are unable to reliably value, or for which we are unable to obtain a market
quotation.  Interest rate fluctuations affect the fair market value of our fixed rate debt, including our
swaps, mortgages, the 7.75% Notes, the Convertible Notes, and certain seller financed promissory notes, but, with respect to such fixed rate debt instruments, do not impact our earnings or cash flows. 
Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. As of December 31, 2011, we had dealership operations in the U.K. and Germany. In each of
these markets, the local currency is the functional currency. Due to our intent to remain 
  48 


Table of Contents

permanently invested in these foreign markets, we do not hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. In the event we change our intent with respect to the investment in any of our international
operations, we would expect to implement strategies designed to manage those risks in an effort to mitigate the effect of foreign currency fluctuations on our earnings and cash flows. A ten percent change in average exchange rates versus the
U.S. Dollar would have resulted in an approximate $426.1 million change to our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.  In common with other automotive retailers, we purchase certain of our new vehicle and parts inventories from foreign manufacturers. Although we purchase the majority of our inventories in the local
functional currency, our business is subject to certain risks, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions and foreign exchange rate
volatility which may influence such manufacturers’ ability to provide their products at competitive prices in the local jurisdictions. Our future results could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors.
  


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  The consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements are incorporated by reference into this Item 8. 
 


Item 9.
Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the principal executive and financial officers, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)), as of the end of the period covered by this report. Our disclosure controls and
procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and
that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our principal executive and financial officers, to allow timely discussions regarding required disclosure. 
Based upon this evaluation, the Company’s principal executive and financial officers concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. In addition, we maintain internal controls designed to provide us with the information required for accounting and financial reporting purposes. There were no changes in
our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the most recent quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
Management’s and our auditors’ reports on our internal control over financial reporting are included with our financial
statements filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   


Item 9B.
Other Information  Not applicable. 
  49 


Table of Contents
PART III 
The information required by Items 10 through 14 is included in the Company’s definitive proxy
statement under the captions “Election of Directors,” “Executive Officers,” “Compensation Committee Report,” “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Executive Compensation,” “Director
Compensation,” “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” “Independent Auditing Firms,” “Related Party Transactions,” “Other Matters” and “Our Corporate Governance.” Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.  PART IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  (1) Financial Statements  The consolidated financial statements listed in the
accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  (2)
Financial Statement Schedule The Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts following the Consolidated
Financial Statements is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  (3) Exhibits
See the Index of Exhibits following the signature page for the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  50 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized on February 24, 2012.   






PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC.




By:
 
 /s/ Roger S. Penske


 
 Roger S. Penske Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/ Roger S. Penske
Roger S. Penske
  
 Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ David K. Jones David K. Jones
  
 Executive Vice President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
Financial Officer)
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ J.D. Carlson J.D. Carlson
  
 Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller (Principal Accounting
Officer)
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ John D. Barr John D. Barr
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ Michael R. Eisenson
Michael R. Eisenson
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ Robert H. Kurnick, Jr.
Robert H. Kurnick, Jr.
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ William J. Lovejoy
William J. Lovejoy
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ Kimberly J. McWaters
Kimberly J. McWaters
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ Yoshimi Namba Yoshimi Namba
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ Lucio A. Noto Lucio A. Noto
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ Richard J. Peters
Richard J. Peters
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ Ronald G. Steinhart
Ronald G. Steinhart
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012





 /s/ H. Brian Thompson
H. Brian Thompson
  
 Director
 
February 24, 2012

  51 


Table of Contents
INDEX OF EXHIBITS 
Each management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement is identified with an asterisk. 
 






    3.1
  
Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.2 to our Form 8-K filed on July 2, 2007).




    3.2
  
Bylaws (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to our Form 8-K filed on December 7, 2007).




    4.1.1
  
Indenture regarding our 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2026, dated January 31, 2006, by and among us, as Issuer, the subsidiary guarantors named therein
and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to our Form 8-K filed February 2, 2006).




    4.1.2
  
Amended and Restated Supplemental Indenture regarding our 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2026 dated as of May 3, 2011, among us, as Issuer, and certain of our
domestic subsidiaries, as Guarantors, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to our Form 10-Q filed May 3, 2011).




    4.2.1
  
Indenture regarding our 7.75% senior subordinated notes due 2016 dated December 7, 2006, by and among us as Issuer, the subsidiary guarantors named therein and The Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to our current report on Form 8-K filed on December 12, 2006).




    4.2.2
  
Amended and Restated Supplemental Indenture regarding 7.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 dated May 3, 2011, among us, as Issuer, and certain of our domestic subsidiaries,
as Guarantors, and Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.2 to our Form 10-Q filed May 3, 2011).




    4.3.1
  
Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2008, among us, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services USA LLC and Toyota Motor Credit Corporation (incorporated by
reference to exhibit 4.4 to our Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2008).




    4.3.2
  
First Amendment dated October 30, 2009 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 30, 2008 among us, Toyota Motor Credit Corporation and Mercedes-Benz
Financial Services USA LLC, as agent (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to the quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2009).




    4.3.3
  
Second Amendment dated July 27, 2010 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2008 among us, Toyota Motor Credit Corporation and Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services USA LLC, as agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed July 10, 2010).




    4.3.4
  
Third Amendment dated December 14, 2010 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2008 among us, Toyota Motor Credit Corporation and Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services USA LLC, as agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3.4 to our 2010 annual report on Form 10-K filed February 28, 2011).




    4.3.5
  
Fourth Amendment dated September 30, 2011 to the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated September 30, 2008 by and among us, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services USA
LLC and Toyota Motor Credit Corporation (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K filed September 30, 2011).




    4.3.6
  
Fifth Amendment dated December 1, 2011 to the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated September 30, 2008 by and among us, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services USA LLC and
Toyota Motor Credit Corporation (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K filed December 6, 2011).




    4.3.7
  
Second Amended and Restated Security Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004 among us, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services USA LLC and Toyota Motor Credit Corporation (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our September 8, 2004 Form 8-K).
  52 


Table of Contents









    4.4.1
  
Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2011, by and among the Company’s U.K. Subsidiaries, Royal Bank of Scotland plc, and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited
(incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to our Form 8-K filed December 22, 2011).




    4.4.2
  
Amendment No. 1 dated January 10, 2012 to Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2011, by and among the Company’s U.K. Subsidiaries, Royal Bank of Scotland plc,
Westminster Bank and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K filed January 10, 2012).




    4.4.3
  
Seasonally Adjusted Overdraft Agreement dated as of August 31, 2006 between Sytner Group Limited and RBS (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.3 to our Form 8-K
filed on September 5, 2006).




    4.4.4
  
Amendment dated September 29, 2008 to Seasonally Adjusted Overdraft Agreement dated as of August 31, 2006 between Sytner Group Limited and RBS (incorporated by reference to
exhibit 4.4 of our October 1, 2008 Form 8-K).




  10.1
  
Form of Dealer Agreement with Acura Automobile Division, American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2.15 to our 2001 Form 10-K).




  10.2
  
Form of Dealer Agreement with Audi of America, Inc., a division of Volkswagen of America, Inc. (incorporated by reference to exhibit10.2.14 to our 2001 Form 10-K).




  10.3
  
Form of Car Center Agreement with BMW of North America, Inc. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2.5 to our 2001 Form 10-K).




  10.4
  
Form of SAV Center Agreement with BMW of North America, Inc. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2.6 to our 2001 Form 10-K).




  10.5
  
Form of Dealership Agreement with BMW (GB) Limited (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.4 to our 2007 Form 10-K).




  10.6
  
Form of Dealer Agreement with Honda Automobile Division, American Honda Motor Co. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2.3 to our 2001 Form 10-K).




  10.7
  
Form of Dealer Agreement with Lexus, a division of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2.4 to our 2001 Form 10-K).




  10.8
  
Form of Mercedes-Benz USA, Inc. Passenger and Car Retailer Agreement (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2.11 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2000).




  10.9
  
Form of Mercedes-Benz USA, Inc. Light Truck Retailer Agreement (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2.12 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000).




  10.10
  
Form of Dealer Agreement with MINI Division of BMW of North America, LLC (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.10 to our 2009 Form 10-K filed February 24, 2010).




  10.11
  
Form of Dealer Agreement with Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2.7 to our 2001 Form 10-K).




*10.12
  
Relocation Agreement with respect to David K. Jones dated August 1, 2011 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed August 2, 2011).




*10.13
  
Amended and Restated Penske Automotive Group, Inc. 2002 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.9 to our 2007 Form 10-K).




*10.14
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.3 to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003).




*10.15
  
Amended and Restated Penske Automotive Group, Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to our 2010 annual report on Form 10-K filed
February 28, 2011).
  53 


Table of Contents









*10.16
  
Penske Automotive Group, Inc. Amended and Restated Management Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.26 to our January 21, 2010 Form S-1).




  10.17.1
  
First Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement dated April 1, 2003 between UAG Connecticut I, LLC and Noto Holdings, LLC (incorporated by reference to
exhibit 10.3 to our Form 10-Q filed May 15, 2003).




  10.17.2
  
Letter Agreement dated April 1, 2003 between UAG Connecticut I, LLC and Noto Holdings, LLC (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.5 to our Form 10-Q filed
May 15, 2003).




  10.18
  
Registration Rights Agreement among us and Penske Automotive Holdings Corp. dated as of December 22, 2000 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.26.1 to our
Form 10-K filed March 29, 2001).




  10.19
  
Second Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement among us, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. And Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. dated as of March 26, 2004
(incorporated by reference to the exhibit 10.2 to our March 26, 2004 Form 8-K).




  10.20
  
Purchase Agreement by and between Mitsui & Co., Ltd., Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., International Motor Cars Group I, L.L.C., International Motor Cars Group
II, L.L.C., Penske Corporation, Penske Automotive Holdings Corp, and Penske Automotive Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to our Form 8-K filed on February 17, 2004).




  10.21
  
Stockholders Agreement among Penske Automotive Holdings Corp., Penske Corporation and Mitsui & Co., Ltd. And Mitsui & Co. (USA), Inc. dated as of March 26,
2004 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to our March 26, 2004 Form 8-K).




  10.22
  
VMC Holding Corporation Stockholders’ Agreement dated April 28, 2005 among VMC Holding Corporation, U.S., Transportation Resource Partners, LP., Penske Truck Leasing Co.
LLP., and Opus Ventures General Partners Limited (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-Q filed on May 5, 2005).




  10.23
  
Management Services Agreement dated April 28, 2005 among VMC Acquisition Corporation, Transportation Resource Advisors LLC., Penske Truck Leasing Co. L.P. and Opus Ventures
General Partner Limited (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-Q filed on May 5, 2005).




  10.24
  
Joint Insurance Agreement dated August 7, 2006 between us and Penske Corporation (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-Q filed August 9,
2006).




  10.25
  
Trade Name and Trademark Agreement dated May 6, 2008 between us and Penske System, Inc. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10 to our Form 10-Q filed May 8,
2008).




  10.26
  
Purchase and Sale Agreement dated June 26, 2008 by and among General Electric Credit Corporation of Tennessee, Logistics Holding Corp., RTLC Acquisition Corp., NTFC Capital
Corporation, Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, PTLC Holdings Co., LLC, PTLC2 Holdings Co., LLC, Penske Automotive Group, Inc. and Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to our July 2, 2008 Form 8-K
).




  10.27
  
Third Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. dated as of March 26, 2009 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to our Form 10-Q
filed May 8, 2009).




  10.28
  
Rights Agreement dated June 26, 2008 by and among PTLC Holdings Co., LLC, PTLC2 Holdings Co., LLC, Penske Truck Leasing Corporation and Penske Automotive Group, Inc.
(incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.4 to our July 2, 2008 Form 8-K).




  10.29.1
  
Amended and Restated Penske Automotive Group 401(k) Savings and Retirement Plan dated as of March 3, 2009 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.26 to our Form 10-K filed
March 11, 2009).
  54 


Table of Contents









  10.29.2
  
Amendment No. 1 dated December 12, 2009 Amended and Restated Penske Automotive Group 401(k) Savings and Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.26 to our January
21, 2010 Form S-1).




  10.29.3
  
Amendment No. 2 dated September 20, 2010 to the Amended and Restated Penske Automotive Group 401(k) Savings and Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2010).




  12
  
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.




  21
  
Subsidiary List.




  23.1
  
Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.




  23.2
  
Consent of KPMG Audit Plc.




  31.1
  
Rule 13(a)-14(a)/15(d)-14(a) Certification.




  31.2
  
Rule 13(a)-14(a)/15(d)-14(a) Certification.




  32
  
Section 1350 Certification.




101
  
The following materials from Penske Automotive Group’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting
Language): (i) the Condensed Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, (ii) the Condensed Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, (iii) the Condensed Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December
31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, (iv) the Consolidated Condensed Statement of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements**.
  


*
Compensatory plans or contracts 


**
Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files on Exhibit 101 hereto are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for
purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under those sections.
  


    
In accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, copies of certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company or its
subsidiaries are not filed herewith. We hereby agree to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Commission upon request. 
  55 


Table of Contents
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and For the Years Ended 
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   






 Management Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
F-2

 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms
 
F-3

 Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
F-6

 Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
F-7

 Consolidated Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income
 
F-8

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
F-9

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
F-10

  F-1



Table of Contents
MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
The management of Penske Automotive Group, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Company’s management and board of directors that the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and presentation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America.  All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations.
Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.  Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control — Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment we believe that, as of December 31, 2011, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting is effective based on those criteria.  The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm that audited
the consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on
page F-3.  Penske Automotive Group, Inc.  February 24, 2012  MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING  The management of UAG UK Holdings Limited and subsidiaries (the “UAG UK Holdings Limited”) is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. UAG UK Holdings Limited’s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the UAG UK Holdings Limited’s management and
board of directors that the UAG UK Holdings Limited’s internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and presentation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  All internal
control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. 
Management assessed the effectiveness of the UAG UK Holdings Limited’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control — Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment we believe
that, as of December 31, 2011, the UAG UK Holdings Limited’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.  UAG UK Holdings Limited’s independent registered public accounting firm that audited the consolidated financial statements of UAG UK Holdings Limited (not included herein) has issued an audit report
on the effectiveness of the UAG UK Holdings Limited’s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page F-5. 
UAG UK Holdings Limited  February 24, 2012

  F-2



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Penske Automotive Group, Inc.  Bloomfield Hills, Michigan  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Penske Automotive Group, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. We also have audited the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for these
financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule and an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audits. We did not audit the financial statements or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of UAG UK Holdings Limited and subsidiaries (a consolidated subsidiary), which statements reflect total assets
constituting 34% and 33% of consolidated total assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and total revenues constituting 37%, 37%, and 38% of consolidated total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Those financial statements and the effectiveness of UAG UK Holdings Limited and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar
as it relates to the amounts included for UAG UK Holdings Limited and subsidiaries and to the effectiveness of UAG UK Holdings Limited and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting, is based solely on the report of the other
auditors.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits and the report of the other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  F-3



Table of Contents
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the
internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
 In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, based on our audits and (as to the amounts included for UAG UK Holdings Limited and subsidiaries) the report of the other
auditors, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also, in our opinion, based
on our audit and the report of the other auditors, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.    




/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
 Detroit, Michigan  February 24, 2012 
  F-4



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders  UAG UK
Holdings Limited:  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of UAG UK Holdings Limited and subsidiaries
(the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholder’s equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2011. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we have also audited the related financial statement schedule. We also have audited UAG UK Holdings Limited’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control —Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management
is responsible for these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule and an opinion on the
Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with US generally accepted accounting principles.
In addition, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also in
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control —Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   




/s/ KPMG Audit Plc
 Birmingham, United Kingdom  February 24, 2012 
  F-5



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
 (In thousands, except
per share amounts)
 

ASSETS
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
29,116
  
 
$
19,688
  

 Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $2,256 and $1,884
  
 
444,673
  
 
 
382,382
  

 Inventories
  
 
1,605,280
  
 
 
1,443,284
  

 Other current assets
  
 
80,307
  
 
 
68,225
  

 Assets held for sale
  
 
33,224
  
 
 
133,019
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
2,192,600
  
 
 
2,046,598
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
858,975
  
 
 
716,427
  

 Goodwill
  
 
906,592
  
 
 
800,621
  

 Franchise value
  
 
231,994
  
 
 
203,108
  

 Equity method investments
  
 
298,640
  
 
 
288,406
  

 Other long-term assets
  
 
13,498
  
 
 
14,672
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
4,502,299
  
 
$
4,069,832
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
  



 




 Floor plan notes payable
  
$
988,650
  
 
$
911,548
  

 Floor plan notes payable — non-trade
  
 
713,635
  
 
 
497,074
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
223,313
  
 
 
251,960
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
202,761
  
 
 
201,714
  

 Current portion of long-term debt
  
 
3,414
  
 
 
10,593
  

 Liabilities held for sale
  
 
17,899
  
 
 
88,117
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
2,149,672
  
 
 
1,961,006
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
846,777
  
 
 
769,285
  

 Deferred tax liabilities
  
 
217,902
  
 
 
178,406
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
147,535
  
 
 
115,282
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
3,361,886
  
 
 
3,023,979
  

 Commitments and contingent liabilities
  



 




 Equity
  



 




 Penske Automotive Group stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value; 100 shares authorized; none issued and outstanding
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common Stock, $0.0001 par value, 240,000 shares authorized; 90,277 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011;
92,100 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
9
  
 
 
9
  

 Non-voting Common Stock, $0.0001 par value, 7,125 shares authorized; none issued and outstanding
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Class C Common Stock, $0.0001 par value, 20,000 shares authorized; none issued and outstanding
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Additional paid-in-capital
  
 
702,335
  
 
 
738,728
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
459,375
  
 
 
304,486
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income
  
 
(25,734
) 
 
 
(1,673
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Penske Automotive Group stockholders’ equity
  
 
1,135,985
  
 
 
1,041,550
  

 Non-controlling interest
  
 
4,428
  
 
 
4,303
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
  
 
1,140,413
  
 
 
1,045,853
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
4,502,299
  
 
$
4,069,832
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-6



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
 
















 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 

 Revenue:
 



 



 




 New vehicle
 
$
5,811,084
  
 
$
5,276,371
  
 
$
4,481,682
  

 Used vehicle
 
 
3,399,981
  
 
 
2,857,922
  
 
 
2,524,421
  

 Finance and insurance, net
 
 
278,027
  
 
 
244,687
  
 
 
215,039
  

 Service and parts
 
 
1,394,990
  
 
 
1,301,811
  
 
 
1,272,872
  

 Fleet and wholesale vehicle
 
 
672,150
  
 
 
647,594
  
 
 
518,203
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
 
$
11,556,232
  
 
$
10,328,385
  
 
$
9,012,217
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cost of sales:
 



 



 




 New vehicle
 
 
5,328,053
  
 
 
4,841,556
  
 
 
4,119,190
  

 Used vehicle
 
 
3,136,474
  
 
 
2,637,356
  
 
 
2,306,468
  

 Service and parts
 
 
599,651
  
 
 
564,494
  
 
 
573,232
  

 Fleet and wholesale
 
 
666,664
  
 
 
640,864
  
 
 
506,198
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cost of sales
 
 
9,730,842
  
 
 
8,684,270
  
 
 
7,505,088
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
 
 
1,825,390
  
 
 
1,644,115
  
 
 
1,507,129
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
 
1,478,297
  
 
 
1,339,125
  
 
 
1,254,500
  

 Depreciation
 
 
48,903
  
 
 
46,253
  
 
 
51,401
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
 
 
298,190
  
 
 
258,737
  
 
 
201,228
  

 Floor plan interest expense
 
 
(28,515
) 
 
 
(33,779
) 
 
 
(34,097
) 

 Other interest expense
 
 
(45,020
) 
 
 
(49,176
) 
 
 
(55,085
) 

 Debt discount amortization
 
 
(1,718
) 
 
 
(8,637
) 
 
 
(13,043
) 

 Equity in earnings of affiliates
 
 
25,451
  
 
 
20,569
  
 
 
13,808
  

 Gain on debt repurchase
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,634
  
 
 
10,429
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
 
 
248,388
  
 
 
189,348
  
 
 
123,240
  

 Income taxes
 
 
(71,933
) 
 
 
(64,732
) 
 
 
(43,055
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
 
 
176,455
  
 
 
124,616
  
 
 
80,185
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax
 
 
1,803
  
 
 
(15,269
) 
 
 
(3,265
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
 
178,258
  
 
 
109,347
  
 
 
76,920
  

 Less: Income attributable to non-controlling interests
 
 
1,377
  
 
 
1,066
  
 
 
459
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
 
$
176,881
  
 
$
108,281
  
 
$
76,461
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic earnings per share attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders:
 



 



 




 Continuing operations
 
$
1.92
  
 
$
1.34
  
 
$
0.87
  

 Discontinued operations
 
 
0.02
  
 
 
(0.16
) 
 
 
(0.03
) 

 Net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
 
$
1.94
  
 
$
1.18
  
 
$
0.84
  

 Shares used in determining basic earnings per share
 
 
91,154
  
 
 
92,018
  
 
 
91,557
  

 Diluted earnings per share attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders:
 



 



 




 Continuing operations
 
$
1.92
  
 
$
1.34
  
 
$
0.87
  

 Discontinued operations
 
 
0.02
  
 
 
(0.16
) 
 
 
(0.04
) 

 Net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
 
$
1.94
  
 
$
1.18
  
 
$
0.83
  

 Shares used in determining diluted earnings per share
 
 
91,274
  
 
 
92,091
  
 
 
91,653
  

 Amounts attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders:
 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations
 
$
176,455
  
 
$
124,616
  
 
$
80,185
  

 Less: Income attributable to non-controlling interests
 
 
1,377
  
 
 
1,066
  
 
 
459
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations, net of tax
 
 
175,078
  
 
 
123,550
  
 
 
79,726
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax
 
 
1,803
  
 
 
(15,269
) 
 
 
(3,265
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
 
$
176,881
  
 
$
108,281
  
 
$
76,461
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash dividends per share
 
$
0.24
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-7



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
















































 
 
Voting andNon-votingCommon Stock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-in
Capital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensive
Income (Loss)
 
 
TotalStockholders' EquityAttributable toPenske AutomotiveGroup
 
 
Non-controllingInterest
 
 
TotalEquity
 
 
Comprehensive Income
 

 
 
IssuedShares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attributable
toPenskeAutomotive Group
 
 
Non-controllingInterest
 
 
Total
 

 Balance, January 1, 2009
 
 
91,430,781
  
 
$
9
  
 
$
731,037
  
 
$
119,744
  
 
$
(45,989
) 
 
$
804,801
  
 
$
3,620
  
 
$
808,421
  
 



 



 




 Equity compensation
 
 
153,757
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,718
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,718
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,718
  
 



 



 




 Exercise of options, including tax benefit of $319
 
 
33,208
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
349
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
349
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
349
  
 



 



 




 Distributions to non-controlling interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(565
) 
 
 
(565
) 
 



 



 




 Sale of subsidiary shares to non-controlling interest
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
158
  
 



 



 




 Foreign currency translation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
47,920
  
 
 
47,920
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
47,920
  
 
$
47,920
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
47,920
  

 Other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,118
  
 
 
7,118
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,118
  
 
 
7,118
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,118
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
76,461
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
76,461
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
76,920
  
 
 
76,461
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
76,920
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
 
91,617,746
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
737,198
  
 
 
196,205
  
 
 
9,049
  
 
 
942,461
  
 
 
3,578
  
 
 
946,039
  
 
$
131,499
  
 
$
459
  
 
$
131,958
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Equity compensation
 
 
495,146
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,898
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,898
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,898
  
 



 



 




 Exercise of options, including tax benefit of $319
 
 
55,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
540
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
540
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
540
  
 



 



 




 Repurchase of common stock
 
 
(68,340
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(751
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(751
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(751
) 
 



 



 




 Repurchase of 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,157
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,157
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,157
) 
 



 



 




 Distributions to non-controlling interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(341
) 
 
 
(341
) 
 



 



 




 Foreign currency translation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16,852
) 
 
 
(16,852
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(16,852
) 
 
$
(16,852
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(16,852
) 

 Other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,130
  
 
 
6,130
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,130
  
 
 
6,130
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,130
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
108,281
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
108,281
  
 
 
1,066
  
 
 
109,347
  
 
 
108,281
  
 
 
1,066
  
 
 
109,347
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
 
92,099,552
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
738,728
  
 
 
304,486
  
 
 
(1,673
) 
 
 
1,041,550
  
 
 
4,303
  
 
 
1,045,853
  
 
$
97,559
  
 
$
1,066
  
 
$
98,625
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Equity compensation
 
 
391,904
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,128
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,128
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,128
  
 



 



 




 Exercise of options, including tax benefit of $155
 
 
235,668
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,370
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,370
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,370
  
 



 



 




 Repurchase of common stock
 
 
(2,449,768
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(44,263
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(44,263
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(44,263
) 
 



 



 




 Dividends
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(21,992
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(21,992
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(21,992
) 
 



 



 




 Distributions to non-controlling interests
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,412
) 
 
 
(1,412
) 
 



 



 




 Purchase of subsidiary shares from non-controlling interest
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(853
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(853
) 
 
 
3
  
 
 
(850
) 
 



 



 




 Sale of subsidiary shares to non-controlling interest
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
382
  
 



 



 




 Foreign currency translation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,792
) 
 
 
(5,792
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,792
) 
 
$
(5,792
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(5,792
) 

 Other
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,269
) 
 
 
(18,269
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,269
) 
 
 
(18,269
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,269
) 

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
176,881
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
176,881
  
 
 
1,377
  
 
 
178,258
  
 
 
176,881
  
 
 
1,377
  
 
 
178,258
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
 
90,277,356
  
 
$
9
  
 
$
702,335
  
 
$
459,375
  
 
$
(25,734
) 
 
$
1,135,985
  
 
$
4,428
  
 
$
1,140,413
  
 
$
152,820
  
 
$
1,377
  
 
$
154,197
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  F-8



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
(In thousands)
 

 Operating Activities:
 



 



 




 Net income
 
$
178,258
  
 
$
109,347
  
 
$
76,920
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from continuing operating activities:
 



 



 




 Depreciation
 
 
48,903
  
 
 
46,253
  
 
 
51,401
  

 Debt discount amortization
 
 
1,718
  
 
 
8,637
  
 
 
13,043
  

 Earnings of equity method investments
 
 
(25,451
) 
 
 
(20,569
) 
 
 
(13,808
) 

 (Income) loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
 
 
(1,803
) 
 
 
15,269
  
 
 
3,265
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
47,187
  
 
 
27,714
  
 
 
46,282
  

 Gain on debt repurchase
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,634
) 
 
 
(10,733
) 

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
 



 



 




 Accounts receivable
 
 
(62,604
) 
 
 
(69,864
) 
 
 
(28,341
) 

 Inventories
 
 
(100,749
) 
 
 
(192,426
) 
 
 
298,930
  

 Floor plan notes payable
 
 
77,102
  
 
 
165,711
  
 
 
(188,811
) 

 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
 
 
(31,634
) 
 
 
65,948
  
 
 
43,483
  

 Other
 
 
(8,310
) 
 
 
44,054
  
 
 
10,703
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing operating activities
 
 
122,617
  
 
 
198,440
  
 
 
302,334
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing Activities:
 



 



 




 Purchase of equipment and improvements
 
 
(133,115
) 
 
 
(75,699
) 
 
 
(89,203
) 

 Proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,338
  

 Dealership acquisitions net, including repayment of sellers’ floor plan notes payable of $54,453, $9,883 and $2,884,
respectively
 
 
(232,106
) 
 
 
(22,232
) 
 
 
(8,517
) 

 Other
 
 
2,865
  
 
 
13,822
  
 
 
17,994
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in continuing investing activities
 
 
(362,356
) 
 
 
(84,109
) 
 
 
(77,388
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing Activities:
 



 



 




 Proceeds from borrowings under U.S. credit agreement revolving credit line
 
 
663,400
  
 
 
632,000
  
 
 
409,900
  

 Repayments under U.S. credit agreement revolving credit line
 
 
(531,400
) 
 
 
(632,000
) 
 
 
(409,900
) 

 Repayments under U.S. credit agreement term loan
 
 
(7,000
) 
 
 
(15,000
) 
 
 
(60,000
) 

 Repurchase of 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes
 
 
(87,278
) 
 
 
(156,604
) 
 
 
(51,424
) 

 Net borrowings (repayments) of other long-term debt
 
 
26,395
  
 
 
(15,402
) 
 
 
(17,402
) 

 Net borrowings (repayments) of floor plan notes payable — non-trade
 
 
216,561
  
 
 
80,151
  
 
 
(82,799
) 

 Proceeds from exercises of options, including excess tax benefit
 
 
3,370
  
 
 
540
  
 
 
349
  

 Repurchases of common stock
 
 
(44,263
) 
 
 
(751
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Dividends
 
 
(21,992
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from (used in) continuing financing activities
 
 
217,793
  
 
 
(107,066
) 
 
 
(211,276
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations:
 



 



 




 Net cash from (used in) discontinued operating activities
 
 
(59,142
) 
 
 
(10,064
) 
 
 
2,390
  

 Net cash from (used in) discontinued investing activities
 
 
90,943
  
 
 
2,512
  
 
 
(3,139
) 

 Net cash from (used in) discontinued financing activities
 
 
(427
) 
 
 
1,756
  
 
 
(10,517
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from discontinued operations
 
 
31,374
  
 
 
(5,796
) 
 
 
(11,266
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
9,428
  
 
 
1,469
  
 
 
2,404
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
19,688
  
 
 
18,219
  
 
 
15,815
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
$
29,116
  
 
$
19,688
  
 
$
18,219
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
 



 



 




 Cash paid for:
 



 



 




 Interest
 
$
45,105
  
 
$
86,173
  
 
$
92,804
  

 Income taxes
 
 
53,075
  
 
 
30,952
  
 
 
18,251
  

 Seller financed/assumed debt
 
 
4,865
  
 
 
2,260
  
 
 
—  
  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-9



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(In thousands, except per share amounts)   


1.
Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Business Overview and Concentrations 
Penske Automotive Group, Inc. through its subsidiaries (the “Company”) is engaged in the sale of new and used motor vehicles and
related products and services, including vehicle service, collision repair, and placement of finance and lease contracts, third-party insurance products and other aftermarket products. The Company operates dealerships under franchise agreements with
a number of automotive manufacturers and distributors. In accordance with individual franchise agreements, each dealership is subject to certain rights and restrictions typical of the industry. The ability of the manufacturers to influence the
operations of the dealerships, or the loss of a significant number of franchise agreements, could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2011,
BMW/MINI franchises accounted for 25% of the Company’s total revenues, Audi/Volkswagen/Bentley accounted for 15%, Toyota/Lexus/Scion franchises accounted for 15%, Honda/Acura franchises accounted for 13%, and Mercedes-Benz/Sprinter/smart
accounted for 10%. No other manufacturers’ franchises accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had receivables from manufacturers of $111,296 and $98,973, respectively. In addition, a
large portion of the Company’s contracts in transit, which are included in accounts receivable, are due from manufacturers’ captive finance subsidiaries. Finally, the Company holds a 9.0% limited partnership interest in Penske Truck
Leasing Co., L.P. (“PTL”), a leading global transportation services provider.  In 2011, smart USA Distributor, LLC,
our wholly owned subsidiary, completed the sale of certain assets and the transfer of certain liabilities relating to the distribution rights, management, sales and marketing activities of smart USA to Daimler Vehicle Innovations LLC, a wholly owned
subsidiary of Mercedes-Benz USA. The final aggregate cash purchase price for the assets was $44,611. As a result, smart USA has been treated as a discontinued operation for all periods presented in the accompanying financial statements. 
Basis of Presentation 
Results for the year ended December 31, 2011 include an $11,046 net income tax benefit reflecting a positive adjustment from the
resolution of certain tax items in the U.K. of $17,008 partially offset by a reduction of U.K. deferred tax assets of $5,962. Results for the year ended December 31, 2010 include a $1,634 pre-tax gain relating to the repurchase of $155,658
aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2026 (the “Convertible Notes”). Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 include a $10,429 pre-tax gain relating to the repurchase of
$68,740 aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes.  The consolidated financial statements include all majority-owned
subsidiaries. Investments in affiliated companies, representing an ownership interest in the voting stock of the affiliate of between 20% and 50% or an investment in a limited partnership or a limited liability corporation for which the
Company’s investment is more than minor, are stated at the cost of acquisition plus the Company’s equity in undistributed net earnings since acquisition. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The
Company evaluated subsequent events through February 24, 2012, the date the consolidated financial statements were filed with the SEC.  The consolidated financial statements have been adjusted for entities that have been treated as discontinued operations through December 31, 2011 in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. 
  F-10



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
Estimates  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from
those estimates. The accounts requiring the use of significant estimates include accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, intangible assets and certain reserves. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include all highly-liquid investments that have an original maturity of three months or less at the date of
purchase. 
Contracts in Transit 
Contracts in transit represent receivables from unaffiliated finance companies relating to the sale of customers’ installment sales
and lease contracts arising in connection with the sale of a vehicle by us. Contracts in transit, included in accounts receivable, net in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets, amounted to $186,178 and $140,246 as of December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively. 
Inventory Valuation 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost for new and used vehicle inventories is determined using the specific
identification method. Cost for parts and accessories are based on factory list prices. 
Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Useful lives for
purposes of computing depreciation for assets, other than leasehold improvements, range between 3 and 15 years. Leasehold improvements and equipment under capital lease are depreciated over the shorter of the term of the lease or the estimated
useful life of the asset, not to exceed 40 years. The Company changed the useful lives of certain fixed assets during the first quarter of 2010 as part of a review of assumptions related to the expected utilization of those assets by the Company.
The Company accounted for the change in useful lives as a change in estimate prospectively effective January 1, 2010, which resulted in a reduction of depreciation expense of $5,638 for the year ended December 31, 2010. 
Expenditures relating to recurring repair and maintenance are expensed as incurred. Expenditures that increase the useful life or
substantially increase the serviceability of an existing asset are capitalized.  When equipment is sold or otherwise disposed
of, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the balance sheet, with any resulting gain or loss being reflected in income. 
Income Taxes 
Tax regulations may require items to be included in the Company’s tax return at different times than those items are reflected in its
financial statements. Some of the differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible on the Company’s tax return, and some are temporary differences, such as the timing of depreciation expense.

  F-11



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   

Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that will be used as a tax deduction or credit in the Company’s tax return in
future years which we have already recorded in the Company’s financial statements. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent deductions taken on its tax return that have not yet been recognized as an expense in its financial statements. We
establish valuation allowances for the Company’s deferred tax assets if the amount of expected future taxable income is not more likely than not to allow for the use of the deduction or credit. 
Intangible Assets 
The Company’s principal intangible assets relate to its franchise agreements with vehicle manufacturers and distributors, which
represent the estimated value of franchises acquired in business combinations, and goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of tangible and identified intangible assets acquired in business combinations. The Company believes
the franchise values of its dealerships have an indefinite useful life based on the following:   


 
•
 
 Automotive retailing is a mature industry and is based on franchise agreements with the vehicle manufacturers and distributors;
  


 
•
 
 There are no known changes or events that would alter the automotive retailing franchise environment; 
 


 
•
 
 Certain franchise agreement terms are indefinite;   


 
•
 
 Franchise agreements that have limited terms have historically been renewed by us without substantial cost; and 
 


 
•
 
 The Company’s history shows that manufacturers and distributors have not terminated our franchise agreements. 
Impairment Testing 
Franchise value impairment is assessed as of October 1 every year and upon the occurrence of an indicator of impairment through a
comparison of its carrying amount and estimated fair value. An indicator of impairment exists if the carrying value of a franchise exceeds its estimated fair value and an impairment loss may be recognized up to that excess. The fair value of
franchise value is determined using a discounted cash flow approach, which includes assumptions that include revenue and profitability growth, franchise profit margins, and the Company’s cost of capital. The Company also evaluates its franchise
agreements in connection with the annual impairment testing to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support its assessment that the franchise agreements have an indefinite life. 
Goodwill impairment is assessed at the reporting unit level as of October 1 every year and upon the occurrence of an indicator of
impairment. The Company has determined that the dealerships in each of its operating segments within the Retail reportable segment are components that are aggregated into four geographical reporting units for the purpose of goodwill impairment
testing, as they (A) have similar economic characteristics (all are automotive dealerships having similar margins), (B) offer similar products and services (all sell new and used vehicles, service, parts and third-party finance and
insurance products), (C) have similar target markets and customers (generally individuals) and (D) have similar distribution and marketing practices (all distribute products and services through dealership facilities that market to
customers in similar fashions). There is no goodwill recorded in the PAG Investments reportable segment. The annual test for impairment begins with a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair
value is less than its carrying value. If the carrying value is determined to more likely than not exceed its estimated fair value, a two-step impairment testing method would be applied. In the two-step method, the fair value of goodwill is
determined using a discounted cash flow approach, which includes assumptions about revenue and profitability 
  F-12



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   

growth, franchise profit margins, residual values and the Company’s cost of capital. If an indication of goodwill impairment exists, an analysis reflecting the allocation of the estimated
fair value of the reporting unit to all assets and liabilities, including previously unrecognized intangible assets, is performed. The impairment is measured by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with its carrying
amount and an impairment loss may be recognized up to any excess of the carrying value over the implied fair value. 
Investments  We account for each of the Company’s investments under the equity method, pursuant to which the Company records its proportionate share of the investee’s income each period. The net book value
of the Company’s investments was $298,640 and $288,406 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Investments for which there is not a liquid, actively traded market are reviewed periodically by management for indicators of
impairment. If an indicator of impairment is identified, management estimates the fair value of the investment using a discounted cash flow approach, which includes assumptions relating to revenue and profitability growth, profit margins, residual
values and the Company’s cost of capital. Declines in investment values that are deemed to be other than temporary may result in an impairment charge reducing the investments’ carrying value to fair value. 
Foreign Currency Translation 
For all of the Company’s foreign operations, the functional currency is the local currency. The revenue and expense accounts of the
Company’s foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the average exchange rates that prevailed during the period. Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using period end exchange
rates. Cumulative translation adjustments relating to foreign functional currency assets and liabilities are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of equity. 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, debt, floor plan notes payable, and
interest rate swaps used to hedge future cash flows. Other than our subordinated notes, the carrying amount of all significant financial instruments approximates fair value due either to length of maturity, the existence of variable interest rates
that approximate prevailing market rates, or as a result of mark to market accounting. A summary of the fair value of the subordinated notes, based on quoted, level one market data, follows: 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Carrying Value
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Carrying Value
 
  
Fair Value
 

 7.75% senior subordinated notes due 2016
  
$
375,000
  
  
$
385,313
  
  
$
375,000
  
  
$
380,063
  

 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2026
  
 
63,324
  
  
 
61,029
  
  
 
148,884
  
  
 
150,602
  

Revenue Recognition 
Vehicle, Parts and Service Sales  The Company records revenue when vehicles are delivered and title has passed to the customer, when vehicle service or repair work is completed and when parts are delivered to our customers. Sales
promotions that we offer to customers are accounted for as a reduction of revenues at the time of sale. Rebates and other incentives offered directly to us by manufacturers are recognized as a reduction of cost of sales. Reimbursements of qualified
advertising expenses are treated as a reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses. The 
  F-13



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   

amounts received under certain manufacturer rebate and incentive programs are based on the attainment of program objectives, and such earnings are recognized either upon the sale of the vehicle
for which the award was received, or upon attainment of the particular program goals if not associated with individual vehicles.  Finance and Insurance Sales  Subsequent to the sale of a vehicle to a
customer, the Company sells its installment sale contracts to various financial institutions on a non-recourse basis (with specified exceptions) to mitigate the risk of default. The Company receives a commission from the lender equal to either the
difference between the interest rate charged to the customer and the interest rate set by the financing institution or a flat fee. The Company also receives commissions for facilitating the sale of various third-party insurance products to
customers, including credit and life insurance policies and extended service contracts. These commissions are recorded as revenue at the time the customer enters into the contract. In the case of finance contracts, a customer may prepay or fail to
pay their contract, thereby terminating the contract. Customers may also terminate extended service contracts and other insurance products, which are fully paid at purchase, and become eligible for refunds of unused premiums. In these circumstances,
a portion of the commissions the Company received may be charged back based on the terms of the contracts. The revenue the Company records relating to these transactions is net of an estimate of the amount of chargebacks the Company will be required
to pay. The Company’s estimate is based upon the Company’s historical experience with similar contracts, including the impact of refinance and default rates on retail finance contracts and cancellation rates on extended service contracts
and other insurance products. Aggregate reserves relating to chargeback activity were $21,037 and $19,317 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Defined Contribution Plans 
The Company sponsors a number of defined contribution plans covering a significant majority of the Company’s employees. Company
contributions to such plans are discretionary and are based on the level of compensation and contributions by plan participants. The Company suspended its 2009 matching contributions to its U.S. 401(K) plan but reinstated the matching contributions
relating to employees’ 2010 contributions. The Company incurred expense of $11,847, $9,426, and $5,932 relating to such plans during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
Advertising 
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred or when such advertising takes place. The Company incurred net advertising costs of $73,794,
$68,141, and $57,584 during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Qualified advertising expenditures reimbursed by manufacturers, which are treated as a reduction of advertising expense, were $10,904, $9,319, and
$5,570 during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
Self Insurance 
The Company retains risk relating to certain of our general liability insurance, workers’ compensation insurance, auto physical
damage insurance, property insurance, employment practices liability insurance, directors and officers insurance, and employee medical benefits in the U.S. As a result, the Company is likely to be responsible for a significant portion of the
claims and losses incurred under these programs. The amount of risk the Company retains varies by program, and, for certain exposures, the Company has pre-determined maximum loss limits for certain individual claims and/or insurance periods. Losses,
if any, above such pre-determined loss limits are paid by third-party insurance 
  F-14



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   

carriers. The Company’s estimate of future losses is prepared by management using the Company’s historical loss experience and industry-based development factors. Aggregate reserves
relating to retained risk were $25,884 and $22,778 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Changes in the reserve estimate during 2011 relate primarily to current year activity in the Company’s general liability and workers
compensation programs. 
Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per share is computed using net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders and the number of
weighted average shares of voting common stock outstanding, including outstanding unvested restricted stock awards which contain rights to non-forfeitable dividends. Diluted earnings per share is computed using net income attributable to Penske
Automotive Group common stockholders and the number of weighted average shares of voting common stock outstanding, adjusted for the dilutive effect of stock options. A reconciliation of the number of shares used in the calculation of basic and
diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 follows: 
   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding
  
 
91,154
  
  
 
92,018
  
  
 
91,557
  

 Effect of non-participatory equity compensation
  
 
120
  
  
 
73
  
  
 
96
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding, including effect of dilutive securities
  
 
91,274
  
  
 
92,091
  
  
 
91,653
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

There were no anti-dilutive stock options outstanding during the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. In addition, the Company has senior subordinated convertible notes outstanding which, under certain circumstances discussed in Note 9, may be converted to voting common stock. As of December 31, 2011,
2010, and 2009, no shares related to the senior subordinated convertible notes were included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because the effect of such securities was anti-dilutive. 
Hedging 
Generally accepted accounting principles relating to derivative instruments and hedging activities require all derivatives, whether
designated in hedging relationships or not, to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. These accounting principles also define requirements for designation and documentation of hedging relationships, as well as ongoing effectiveness
assessments, which must be met in order to qualify for hedge accounting. For a derivative that does not qualify as a hedge, changes in fair value are recorded in earnings immediately. If the derivative is designated in a fair-value hedge, the
changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item are recorded in earnings. If the derivative is designated in a cash-flow hedge, effective changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss), a separate component of equity, and recorded in the income statement only when the hedged item affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of the derivative attributable to hedge ineffectiveness are recorded in earnings immediately.

Stock-Based Compensation 
Generally accepted accounting principles relating to share-based payments require the Company to record compensation expense for all
awards based on their grant-date fair value. The Company’s share-based payments have generally been in the form of “non-vested shares,” the fair value of which are measured as if they were vested and issued on the grant date.

  F-15



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
New Accounting Pronouncements 
In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which
requires the presentation of components of other comprehensive income with the components of net income in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The Company will adopt this
update for periods beginning after December 31, 2011. While this will affect the presentation of comprehensive income, the Company does not believe it will have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of
operations.  In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, amending the guidance on
goodwill impairment testing. This update permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. This is intended to
reduce the cost and complexity of the annual impairment test and is considered a preliminary step in determining whether it is necessary to calculate a fair value for a reporting unit. The Company elected to early adopt the provisions of this
update by preparing a qualitative assessment for the period ending December 31, 2011. The adoption of this update had no impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
 


2.
Equity Method Investees 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company has investments in the following companies that are accounted for under the
equity method: the Jacobs Group (50%), the Nix Group (50%), Penske Wynn Ferrari Maserati (50%), Max Cycles (50%), Innovative Media (45%), QEK Global Solutions (22.5%), and Fleetwash, LLC (7%). Jacobs Group, Nix Group, and Penske Wynn Ferrari
Maserati are engaged in the sale and servicing of automobiles. Max Cycles is engaged in the sale and servicing of BMW motorcycles, QEK is an automotive fleet management company, Innovative Media provides dealership graphics, and Fleetwash provides
vehicle fleet washing services. These investments in entities accounted for under the equity method amounted to $58,386 and $59,097 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The Company also has a 9.0% limited partnership interest in Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (“PTL”), a global transportation
services provider. The Company’s investment in PTL, which is accounted for under the equity method, amounted to $240,254 and $229,309 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
In 2010, the Company exchanged its 50% interest in the Reisacher Group for 100% ownership in three BMW franchises previously held by the
joint venture. The Company recorded $13,331 of intangible assets in connection with this transaction. The Company sold its investment in Cycle Express, LP, in the fourth quarter of 2010 for $14,616, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $5,295. In
2009, the Company sold its investment in a Mexican entity which operates several Toyota franchises for $7,865, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $581.  The combined results of operations and financial position of the Company’s equity basis investments are summarized as follows: 
Condensed income statement information:   
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Revenues
  
$
5,970,595
  
  
$
4,531,588
  
  
$
4,748,082
  

 Gross margin
  
 
1,802,301
  
  
 
1,749,504
  
  
 
1,794,563
  

 Net income
  
 
255,145
  
  
 
198,793
  
  
 
138,504
  

 Equity in net income of affiliates
  
 
25,451
  
  
 
20,569
  
  
 
13,808
  

  F-16



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
Condensed balance sheet information: 
   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Current assets
  
$
1,159,066
  
  
$
933,160
  

 Noncurrent assets
  
 
7,228,052
  
  
 
6,135,749
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
8,387,118
  
  
$
7,068,909
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Current liabilities
  
$
916,344
  
  
$
830,616
  

 Noncurrent liabilities
  
 
6,330,666
  
  
 
5,233,973
  

 Equity
  
 
1,140,108
  
  
 
1,004,320
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
8,387,118
  
  
$
7,068,909
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 


3.
Business Combinations 
During 2011 and 2010, respectively, the Company acquired seven and five franchises in its retail operations. The
Company’s financial statements include the results of operations of the acquired dealerships from the date of acquisition. The fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements, and may be subject to adjustment pending completion of final valuation. A summary of the aggregate consideration paid and the aggregate amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010 follows:     












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Accounts receivable
  
$
953
  
 
$
—  
  

 Inventory
  
 
61,247
  
 
 
11,520
  

 Other current assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
45
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
40,190
  
 
 
4,932
  

 Goodwill
  
 
107,498
  
 
 
8,274
  

 Franchise value
  
 
29,491
  
 




 Other assets
  
 
628
  
 




 Current liabilities
  
 
(6,190
) 
 
 
(279
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total consideration
  
 
233,817
  
 
 
24,492
  

 Seller financed/assumed debt
  
 
(1,711
) 
 
 
(2,260
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash used in dealership acquisitions
  
$
232,106
  
 
$
22,232
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

In January 2012, the Company acquired a dealership group in the United Kingdom which included thirteen franchises for
total consideration of approximately $83,000, which includes goodwill, working capital, inventory and other assets. The Company is still in the process of completing final purchase accounting which is estimated to be completed during the first
quarter of 2012.  In 2010, the Company exchanged its 50% interest in the Reisacher Group for 100% ownership in three BMW
franchises previously held by the joint venture. The Company recorded $13,331 of intangible assets in connection with this transaction. 
  F-17



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
The following unaudited consolidated pro forma results of operations of the Company for
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 give effect to acquisitions consummated during 2011 and 2010 as if they had occurred on January 1, 2010:   
 












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Revenues
  
$
11,755,235
  
  
$
10,848,317
  

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
178,954
  
  
 
130,227
  

 Net income
  
 
180,757
  
  
 
114,958
  

 Income from continuing operations per diluted common share
  
$
1.96
  
  
$
1.41
  

 Net income per diluted common share
  
$
1.98
  
  
$
1.25
  

 


4.
Discontinued Operations 
The Company accounts for dispositions in its retail operations as discontinued operations when it is evident that the
operations and cash flows of a franchise being disposed of will be eliminated from on-going operations and that the Company will not have any significant continuing involvement in its operations. 
In evaluating whether the cash flows of a dealership in its Retail reportable segment will be eliminated from ongoing operations, the
Company considers whether it is likely that customers will migrate to similar franchises that it owns in the same geographic market. The Company’s consideration includes an evaluation of the brands sold at other dealerships it operates in the
market and their proximity to the disposed dealership. When the Company disposes of franchises, it typically does not have continuing brand representation in that market. If the franchise being disposed of is located in a complex of Company owned
dealerships, the Company does not treat the disposition as a discontinued operation if it believes that the cash flows previously generated by the disposed franchise will be replaced by expanded operations of the remaining or replacement franchises.
Combined financial information regarding dealerships accounted for as discontinued operations follows:   
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenues
  
$
313,308
  
 
$
406,028
  
 
$
545,883
  

 Pre-tax (loss) income
  
 
(110
) 
 
 
(20,034
) 
 
 
4,795
  

 Gain (loss) on disposal
  
 
3,313
  
 
 
(3,955
) 
 
 
(9,199
) 

   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Inventory
  
$
15,491
  
  
$
80,942
  

 Other assets
  
 
17,733
  
  
 
52,077
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
 
33,224
  
  
 
133,019
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Floor plan
  
 
12,020
  
  
 
70,093
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
5,879
  
  
 
18,024
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
17,899
  
  
 
88,117
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-18



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   


5.
Inventories 
Inventories consisted of the following: 
   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 New vehicles
  
$
1,068,905
  
  
$
1,004,893
  

 Used vehicles
  
 
454,800
  
  
 
364,101
  

 Parts, accessories and other
  
 
81,575
  
  
 
74,290
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total inventories
  
$
1,605,280
  
  
$
1,443,284
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The Company receives non-refundable credits from certain vehicle manufacturers that reduce cost of sales when the
vehicles are sold. Such credits amounted to $29,070, $26,166, and $29,679 during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.   


6.
Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment consisted of the following: 
   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Buildings and leasehold improvements
  
$
823,561
  
 
$
682,036
  

 Furniture, fixtures and equipment
  
 
351,821
  
 
 
318,260
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,175,382
  
 
 
1,000,296
  

 Less: Accumulated depreciation
  
 
(316,407
) 
 
 
(283,869
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
$
858,975
  
 
$
716,427
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately $27,500 and $27,600, respectively, of capitalized interest is
included in buildings and leasehold improvements and is being depreciated over the useful life of the related assets.   


7.
Intangible Assets 
Following is a summary of the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill and franchise value during the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, net of accumulated impairment losses recorded prior to December 31, 2009 of $606,349 and $37,110, respectively:   
 












 
  
Goodwill
 
 
FranchiseValue
 

 Balance — December 31, 2009
  
$
796,278
  
 
$
201,463
  

 Additions
  
 
17,199
  
 
 
4,222
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(12,856
) 
 
 
(2,577
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — December 31, 2010
  
 
800,621
  
 
 
203,108
  

 Additions
  
 
107,498
  
 
 
29,491
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(1,527
) 
 
 
(605
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance — December 31, 2011
  
$
906,592
  
 
$
231,994
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-19



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
We test for impairment in our intangible assets at least annually. We did not record any
impairment charges relating to our intangibles in 2011, 2010 or 2009.  In September 2011, the FASB updated the accounting
guidance related to testing goodwill for impairment. This update permits an entity to make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying value before applying a
two-step goodwill impairment model that is currently in place. If it is determined through the qualitative assessment that a reporting unit’s fair value is more likely than not greater than its carrying value, the two-step impairment test would
be unnecessary. The qualitative assessment is optional, allowing companies to go directly to the quantitative assessment. This update is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed in fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2011, however, early adoption is permitted. The Company elected to adopt the qualitative assessment early. A number of qualitative factors were considered, including but not limited to the criteria in ASC 350-20-35-3, and the
Company determined that it is not more likely than not that any of the four reporting unit’s fair value is less than their carrying amount.  If the two-step impairment test were necessary, the Company would have estimated the fair value of our reporting units using an “income” valuation approach. The “income” valuation
approach estimates the Company’s enterprise value using a net present value model, which discounts projected free cash flows of the Company’s business using its weighted average cost of capital as the discount rate. This consideration
would also include a control premium that represents the estimated amount an investor would pay for the Company’s equity securities to obtain a controlling interest and other significant assumptions including revenue and profitability growth,
franchise profit margins, residual values and the Company’s cost of capital.  In the Company’s situation, if the
first step of the impairment testing process indicated that the fair value of the reporting unit was below its carrying value (even by a relatively small amount), the requirements of the second step of the test result in a significant decrease in
the amount of goodwill recorded on the balance sheet. This is because, prior to the Company’s adoption on July 1, 2001 of generally accepted accounting principles relating to business combinations, it did not separately identify franchise
rights associated with the acquisition of dealerships as separate intangible assets. In performing the second step, the Company would be required by generally accepted accounting principles related to goodwill and other intangibles to assign value
to any previously unrecognized identifiable intangible assets (including such franchise rights, which are substantial) even though such amounts are not separately recorded on its consolidated balance sheet. 
 


8.
Floor Plan Notes Payable — Trade and Non-trade 
The Company finances substantially all of its new and a portion of its used vehicle inventories under revolving floor
plan arrangements with various lenders, including the captive finance companies associated with automotive manufacturers. In the U.S., the floor plan arrangements are due on demand; however, the Company has not historically been required to repay
floor plan advances prior to the sale of the vehicles that have been financed. The Company typically makes monthly interest payments on the amount financed. Outside of the U.S., substantially all of the floor plan arrangements are payable on demand
or have an original maturity of 90 days or less and the Company is generally required to repay floor plan advances at the earlier of the sale of the vehicles that have been financed or the stated maturity. 
The floor plan agreements grant a security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company’s dealership subsidiaries, and
in the U.S. are guaranteed by the Company. Interest rates under the floor plan arrangements are 
  F-20



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   

variable and increase or decrease based on changes in the prime rate, defined London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), the Finance House Bank Rate, or the Euro Interbank offer Rate. The
weighted average interest rate on floor plan borrowings, including the effect of the interest rate swap discussed in Note 10, was 1.9%, 2.6%, and 2.7% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The Company
classifies floor plan notes payable to a party other than the manufacturer of a particular new vehicle, and all floor plan notes payable relating to pre-owned vehicles, as floor plan notes payable — non-trade on its consolidated balance
sheets and classifies related cash flows as a financing activity on its consolidated statements of cash flows.   


9.
Long-Term Debt 
Long-term debt consisted of the following: 
   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 U.S. credit agreement — revolving credit line
  
$
132,000
  
 
$
—  
  

 U.S. credit agreement — term loan
  
 
127,000
  
 
 
134,000
  

 U.K. credit agreement — revolving credit line
  
 
59,060
  
 
 
54,597
  

 U.K. credit agreement — term loan
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5,505
  

 U.K. credit agreement — overdraft line of credit
  
 
13,333
  
 
 
7,116
  

 7.75% senior subordinated notes due 2016
  
 
375,000
  
 
 
375,000
  

 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2026, net of debt discount
  
 
63,324
  
 
 
148,884
  

 Mortgage facilities
  
 
75,684
  
 
 
46,052
  

 Other
  
 
4,790
  
 
 
8,724
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt
  
$
850,191
  
 
$
779,878
  

 Less: current portion
  
 
(3,414
) 
 
 
(10,593
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net long-term debt
  
$
846,777
  
 
$
769,285
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Scheduled maturities of long-term debt for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows: 
   








 2012
  
$
 3,414
  

 2013
  
 
3,545
  

 2014
  
 
261,541
  

 2015
  
 
114,728
  

 2016
  
 
441,764
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
25,199
  


  
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt reported
  
$
850,191
  


  
  
  
 

The Convertible Notes are not due until 2026, however, the holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion
of these notes for cash in 2016. This acceleration of ultimate repayment is reflected in the table above.  U.S. Credit
Agreement  The Company is party to a credit agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services USA LLC and Toyota Motor
Credit Corporation, as amended (the “U.S. Credit Agreement”), which provides for up to $375,000 in revolving loans for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, investments and other general corporate

  F-21



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   

purposes, a non-amortizing term loan with a remaining balance of $127,000, and for an additional $10,000 of availability for letters of credit. The revolving loans bear interest at a defined
LIBOR plus 2.50%, subject to an incremental 1.00% for uncollateralized borrowings in excess of a defined borrowing base. The term loan, which bears interest at defined LIBOR plus 2.50%, may be prepaid at any time, but then may not be re-borrowed.
The Company repaid $7,000 and $15,000 of this term loan during 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The U.S. Credit Agreement is
fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the Company’s domestic subsidiaries and contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict the Company’s ability to dispose of assets, incur
additional indebtedness, repay other indebtedness, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments or acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. The Company is also required to comply with specified financial and other tests and
ratios, each as defined in the U.S. Credit Agreement, including: a ratio of current assets to current liabilities, a fixed charge coverage ratio, a ratio of debt to stockholders’ equity and a ratio of debt to EBITDA. A breach of these
requirements would give rise to certain remedies under the agreement, the most severe of which is the termination of the agreement and acceleration of the amounts owed. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all covenants
under the U.S. Credit Agreement.  The U.S. Credit Agreement also contains typical events of default, including change of
control, non-payment of obligations and cross-defaults to the Company’s other material indebtedness. Substantially all of the Company’s domestic assets are subject to security interests granted to lenders under the U.S. Credit Agreement.
As of December 31, 2011, $127,000 of term loans, $132,000 of revolving loans and $500 of letters of credit were outstanding under the U.S. Credit Agreement.  U.K. Credit Agreement  The Company’s subsidiaries in the U.K.
(the “U.K. subsidiaries”) are party to £100,000 revolving credit agreement with the Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, and an additional £10,000 demand overdraft line of credit with
RBS (collectively, the “U.K. credit agreement”) to be used for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, investments and general corporate purposes through November 2015. The revolving loans bear interest between defined LIBOR
plus 1.35% and defined LIBOR plus 3.0% and the demand overdraft line of credit bears interest at the Bank of England Base Rate plus 1.75%. As of December 31, 2011, outstanding loans under the U.K. credit agreement amounted to £46,579
($72,393).  The U.K. Credit Agreement is fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the
Company’s U.K. subsidiaries, and contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of our U.K. subsidiaries to pay dividends, dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, repay other indebtedness,
create liens on assets, make investments or acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. In addition, our U.K. subsidiaries are required to comply with defined ratios and tests, including: a ratio of earnings before interest, taxes,
amortization, and rental payments (“EBITAR”) to interest plus rental payments, a measurement of maximum capital expenditures, and a debt to EBITDA ratio. A breach of these requirements would give rise to certain remedies under the
agreement, the most severe of which is the termination of the agreement and acceleration of any amounts owed. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s U.K. subsidiaries were in compliance with all covenants under the U.K. credit agreement.
 The U.K. credit agreement also contains typical events of default, including change of control and non-payment of obligations
and cross-defaults to other material indebtedness of our U.K. subsidiaries. Substantially all of the Company’s U.K. subsidiaries’ assets are subject to security interests granted to lenders under the U.K. credit agreement. 
  F-22



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
Beginning in 2012, the Company’s U.K. subsidiaries are also party to a separate
agreement with RBS, as agent for National Westminster Bank plc, providing for a £30,000 term loan which was used for working capital and an acquisition. The term loan is repayable in £1,500 quarterly installments through 2015 with a
final payment of £7,500 due December 31, 2015. The term loan bears interest between 2.675% and 4.325%, depending on the U.K. subsidiaries’ ratio of net borrowings to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as
defined).  7.75% Senior Subordinated Notes 
In December 2006, the Company issued $375,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior subordinated notes (the
“7.75% Notes”) due 2016. The 7.75% Notes are unsecured senior subordinated notes and are subordinate to all existing and future senior debt, including debt under the Company’s credit agreements, mortgages and floor plan
indebtedness. The 7.75% Notes are guaranteed by substantially all of the Company’s wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries on a unsecured senior subordinated basis. Those guarantees are full and unconditional and joint and several. The Company
can redeem all or some of the 7.75% Notes at its option at specified redemption prices. Upon certain sales of assets or specific kinds of changes of control the Company is required to make an offer to purchase the 7.75% Notes. The
7.75% Notes also contain customary negative covenants and events of default. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all negative covenants and there were no events of default. 
Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes  In January 2006, the Company issued $375,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes, of which $63,324 were outstanding at December 31, 2011. The Convertible Notes mature on
April 1, 2026, unless earlier converted, redeemed or purchased by the Company, as discussed below. The Convertible Notes are unsecured senior subordinated obligations and subordinate to all future and existing debt under the Company’s
credit agreements, mortgages and floor plan indebtedness. The Convertible Notes are guaranteed on an unsecured senior subordinated basis by substantially all of the Company’s wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. Those guarantees are full and
unconditional and joint and several. The Convertible Notes also contain customary negative covenants and events of default. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all negative covenants and there were no events of default.
 Holders of the Convertible Notes may convert them based on a conversion rate of 42.7796 shares of common stock per
$1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes (which is equal to a conversion price of approximately $23.38 per share), subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: (1) in any quarterly period, if the closing price of the
common stock for twenty of the last thirty trading days in the prior quarter exceeds $28.05 (subject to adjustment), (2) for specified periods, if the trading price of the Convertible Notes falls below specific thresholds, (3) if the
Convertible Notes are called for redemption, (4) if specified distributions to holders of the common stock are made or specified corporate transactions occur, (5) if a fundamental change (as defined) occurs, or (6) during the ten
trading days prior to, but excluding, the maturity date.  Upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, for each $1,000 principal
amount of the Convertible Notes, a holder will receive an amount in cash, equal to the lesser of (i) $1,000 or (ii) the conversion value, determined in the manner set forth in the related indenture covering the Convertible Notes, of the
number of shares of common stock equal to the conversion rate. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will also deliver, at its election, cash, common stock or a combination of cash and common stock with respect to the remaining value
deliverable upon conversion. 
  F-23



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
The Company will pay additional cash interest if the average trading price of a
Convertible Note for certain periods in the prior six-month period equals 120% or more of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes. The Company may redeem the Convertible Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, for cash at a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the applicable redemption date.  Holders of the Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Convertible Notes for cash on each of April 1, 2016 and April 1, 2021 at a purchase price equal to
100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the applicable purchase date.  The liability and equity components related to the Convertible Notes consist of the following:   
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Carrying amount of the equity component
  
$
36,936
  
  
$
36,936
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Principal amount of the liability component
  
$
63,324
  
  
$
150,602
  

 Unamortized debt discount
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,718
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net carrying amount of the liability component
  
$
63,324
  
  
$
148,884
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Mortgage Facilities  The Company is party to several mortgages which bear interest at defined rates and require monthly principal and interest payments. These mortgage facilities also contain typical events of default,
including non-payment of obligations, cross-defaults to the Company’s other material indebtedness, certain change of control events, on the loss or sale of certain franchises operated at the properties. Substantially all of the buildings and
improvements on the properties financed pursuant to the mortgage facilities are subject to security interests granted to the lender. As of December 31, 2011, we owed $75,684 under our mortgage facilities. 
 


10.
Interest Rate Swaps 
The Company periodically uses interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk associated with the Company’s
variable rate floor plan debt. The Company is party to forward-starting interest rate swap agreements beginning January 2012 and maturing December 2014 pursuant to which the LIBOR portion of $300,000 of the Company’s floating rate floor plan
debt is fixed at a rate of 2.135% and $100,000 of the Company’s floating rate floor plan debt is fixed at a rate of 1.55%. The Company may terminate these agreements at any time, subject to the settlement of the then current fair value of the
swap arrangements.  During 2009, 2010 and into January 2011, the Company was party to interest rate swap agreements pursuant
to which the LIBOR portion of $300,000 of the Company’s floating rate floor plan debt was fixed at 3.67%.  The Company
used Level 2 inputs to estimate the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of the swaps designated as hedging instruments was estimated to be a liability of $15,952 and $1,016,
respectively, which is recorded in accrued expenses, and as of December 31, 2010, the fair value of the swaps not designated as hedging instruments was estimated to be a liability of $35, which was recorded in accrued expenses. 
  F-24



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
During 2011, there was no hedge ineffectiveness recorded in the Company’s income
statement. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized a net gain in accumulated other comprehensive income of $5,435 related to the effective portion of the interest rate swap agreements designated as hedging instruments,
and reclassified $8,157 of derivative losses from accumulated other comprehensive income into floor plan interest expense. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the swap increased the weighted average interest rate on the Company’s
floor plan borrowings by approximately 80 basis points.   


11.
Commitments and Contingent Liabilities 
The Company is involved in litigation which may relate to claims brought by governmental authorities, issues with
customers, and employment related matters, including class action claims and purported class action claims. As of December 31, 2011, the Company is not party to any legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits, that, individually or in
the aggregate, are reasonably expected to have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. However, the results of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and an unfavorable resolution
of one or more of these matters could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  The Company has historically structured its operations so as to minimize ownership of real property. As a result, the Company leases or subleases substantially all of its facilities. These leases are
generally for a period of between five and 20 years, and are typically structured to include renewal options at the Company’s election. The Company estimates the total rent obligations under these leases, including any extension periods it
may exercise at its discretion and assuming constant consumer price indices, to be $4.7 billion. Pursuant to the leases for some of the Company’s larger facilities, the Company is required to comply with specified financial ratios, including a
“rent coverage” ratio and a debt to EBITDA ratio, each as defined. For these leases, non-compliance with the ratios may require the Company to post collateral in the form of a letter of credit. A breach of the other lease covenants gives
rise to certain remedies by the landlord, the most severe of which include the termination of the applicable lease and acceleration of the total rent payments due under the lease. 
Minimum future rental payments required under operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2011 are as follows: 
   








 2012
  
$
 176,949
  

 2013
  
 
174,566
  

 2014
  
 
173,207
  

 2015
  
 
170,359
  

 2016
  
 
169,791
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
3,826,677
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
4,691,549
  


  
  
  
 

Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 amounted to $171,328, $163,234, and $157,182,
respectively. Of the total rental payments, $385, $436, and $431, respectively, were made to related parties during 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively (See Note 12).  The Company has sold a number of dealerships to third parties and, as a condition to certain of those sales, remains liable for the lease payments relating to the properties on which those businesses
operate in the event of non-payment by the buyer. The Company is also party to lease agreements on properties that it no longer uses in its retail operations that it has sublet to third parties. The Company relies on subtenants to pay the rent and

  F-25



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   

maintain the property at these locations. In the event the subtenant does not perform as expected, the Company may not be able to recover amounts owed to it and the Company could be required to
fulfill these obligations. The aggregate rent paid by the tenants on those properties in 2011 was approximately $11,655, and, in aggregate, the Company currently guarantees or is otherwise liable for approximately $178,878 of these lease payments,
including lease payments during available renewal periods.   


12.
Related Party Transactions 
The Company currently is a tenant under a number of non-cancelable lease agreements with Automotive Group Realty, LLC
and its subsidiaries (together “AGR”), which are subsidiaries of Penske Corporation. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, the Company paid $385, $436, and $431, respectively, to AGR under these lease agreements.
From time to time, the Company may sell AGR real property and improvements that are subsequently leased by AGR to the Company. In addition, the Company may purchase real property or improvements from AGR. Any such transaction is valued at a price
that is independently confirmed. During 2011, the Company purchased land from AGR for $1,400. There were no purchase or sale transactions with AGR in 2010 or 2009.  The Company sometimes pays to and/or receives fees from Penske Corporation and its affiliates for services rendered in the normal course of business, or to reimburse payments made to third parties on each
others’ behalf. These transactions and those relating to AGR mentioned above are reviewed periodically by the Company’s Audit Committee and reflect the provider’s cost or an amount mutually agreed upon by both parties. During the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, Penske Corporation and its affiliates billed the Company $4,913, $5,421, and $3,368, respectively, and the Company billed Penske Corporation and its affiliates $72, $41, and $24, respectively, for
such services. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $2 and $6 of receivables from and $546 and $340 of payables to Penske Corporation and its subsidiaries, respectively. 
The Company, Penske Corporation and certain affiliates have entered into a joint insurance agreement which provides that, with respect to
any joint insurance (currently only our joint crime insurance policy), available coverage with respect to a loss shall be paid to each party per occurrence as stipulated in the policies. In the event of losses by the Company and Penske Corporation
that exceed the limit of liability for any policy or policy period, the total policy proceeds will be allocated based on the ratio of premiums paid.  The general partner of PTL is Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Penske Corporation, which together with other wholly-owned subsidiaries of Penske Corporation, owns 41.1% of
PTL. The remaining 49.9% of PTL is owned by General Electric Capital Corporation. The Company is party to a partnership agreement among the other partners which, among other things, provides us with specified partner distribution and governance
rights and restricts our ability to transfer our interests. In 2011, 2010, and 2009, the Company received $7,751, $8,804, and $20,012, respectively, from PTL in pro rata cash dividends. 
The Company is also party to an agreement pursuant to which PTL subleases a portion of our dealership location in New Jersey for $60 per
year plus its pro rata share of certain property expenses. A similar agreement to sublease a portion of our dealership location in Arizona was terminated at the end of April 2011. We collected $20 in sublease rent prior to that termination. During
2010, and 2009, respectively, smart USA paid PTL $592, and $1,217 for assistance with roadside assistance and other services to smart fortwo owners, of which $309 and $863, respectively, were pass-through expenses to be paid by PTL to third-party
vendors. In 2009, PTL began hosting the Company’s disaster recovery site. Annual fees paid to PTL for this service are $70. The Company paid $70, $70 and $17 for these services in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  F-26



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
From time to time the Company enters into joint venture relationships in the ordinary
course of business, pursuant to which it owns and operates automotive dealerships together with other investors. The Company may also provide these dealerships with working capital and other debt financing at costs that are based on the
Company’s incremental borrowing rate. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s automotive joint venture relationships were as follows:   
 










 Location
  
 Dealerships
  
 OwnershipInterest
 

 Fairfield, Connecticut
  
Audi, Mercedes-Benz, Sprinter, Porsche, smart
  
 
86.56
% (A) (B) 

 Las Vegas, Nevada
  
Ferrari, Maserati
  
 
50.00
% (C) 

 Frankfurt, Germany
  
Lexus, Toyota
  
 
50.00
% (C) 

 Aachen, Germany
  
Audi, Lexus, Skoda, Toyota, Volkswagen
  
 
50.00
% (C) 
  


(A)
An entity controlled by one of the Company’s directors, Lucio A. Noto (the “Investor”), owns a 13.44% interest in this joint venture which entitles the
Investor to 20% of the joint venture’s operating profits. In addition, the Investor has an option to purchase up to a 20% interest in the joint venture for specified amounts. 


(B)
Entity is consolidated in the Company’s financial statements. 


(C)
Entity is accounted for using the equity method of accounting. 
 


13.
Stock-Based Compensation 
Key employees, outside directors, consultants and advisors of the Company are eligible to receive stock-based
compensation pursuant to the terms of the Company’s 2002 Equity Compensation Plan (the “Plan”). The Plan originally allowed for the issuance of 4,200 shares for stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
restricted stock units, performance shares and other awards. As of December 31, 2011, 1,184 shares of common stock were available for grant under the Plan. Compensation expense related to the Plan was $6,022, $6,908, and $5,631 during the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Restricted Stock 
During 2011, 2010, and 2009, the Company granted 392, 391, and 114 shares, respectively, of restricted common stock at no cost to
participants under the Plan. The restricted stock entitles the participants to vote their respective shares and receive dividends. The shares are subject to forfeiture and are non-transferable, which restrictions generally lapse over a four year
period from the grant date. The grant date quoted market price of the underlying common stock is amortized as expense over the restriction period. As of December 31, 2011, there was $8,627 of unrecognized compensation cost related to the
restricted stock, which is expected to be recognized over the next 3.5 years.  Presented below is a summary of the status
of the Company’s restricted stock as of December 31, 2010 and changes during the year ended December 31, 2011:   
 
















 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted AverageGrant-Date Fair Value
 
  
IntrinsicValue
 

 December 31, 2010
  
 
755
  
 
$
16.52
  
  
$
13,160
  

 Granted
  
 
392
  
 
 
18.37
  
  




 Vested
  
 
(238
) 
 
 
18.61
  
  




 Forfeited
  
 
(45
) 
 
 
16.04
  
  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 December 31, 2011
  
 
864
  
 
$
16.81
  
  
$
14,517
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-27



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
Stock Options 
Options were granted by the Company prior to 2006. These options generally vested over a three year period and had a maximum term of ten
years. As of December 31, 2011, no stock options remain outstanding.  Presented below is a summary of the status of stock
options held by participants during 2011, 2010, and 2009:     




























 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Stock Options
  
Shares
 
  
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
Shares
 
  
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
Shares
 
  
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 

 Options outstanding at beginning of year
  
 
236
  
  
$
9.82
  
  
 
291
  
  
$
9.29
  
  
 
324
  
  
$
9.01
  

 Granted
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Exercised
  
 
236
  
  
 
9.82
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
6.99
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
6.65
  

 Forfeited
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




 Options outstanding at end of year
  
 
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
236
  
  
$
9.82
  
  
 
291
  
  
$
9.29
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $2,671, $393, and $325 in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
  


14.
Equity 
Share Repurchase  During 2011 and 2010, respectively, the Company acquired 2,450 shares of our outstanding common stock for $44,263, or an average of $18.07 per share, and 68 shares of our outstanding common stock for
$751, or an average of $10.97 per share, under a program approved by the Company’s board of directors.  Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, follow:
    
















 
  
CurrencyTranslation
 
 
Other
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
$
(43,046
) 
 
$
(2,943
) 
 
$
(45,989
) 

 Change
  
 
47,920
  
 
 
7,118
  
 
 
55,038
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
4,874
  
 
 
4,175
  
 
 
9,049
  

 Change
  
 
(16,852
) 
 
 
6,130
  
 
 
(10,722
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
(11,978
) 
 
 
10,305
  
 
 
(1,673
) 

 Change
  
 
(5,792
) 
 
 
(18,269
) 
 
 
(24,061
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
(17,770
) 
 
$
(7,964
) 
 
$
(25,734
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

“Other” represents changes relating to other immaterial items, including: certain defined benefit plans in
the U.K., changes in the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, and valuation adjustments relating to certain available for sale securities, each of which has been excluded from net income and reflected in equity. 
  F-28



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   


15.
Income Taxes 
Income taxes relating to income from continuing operations consisted of the following: 
   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Current:
  



  



  




 Federal
  
$
16,118
  
  
$
7,061
  
  
$
(29,544
) 

 State and local
  
 
3,694
  
  
 
2,392
  
  
 
869
  

 Foreign
  
 
4,934
  
  
 
27,565
  
  
 
25,448
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total current
  
 
24,746
  
  
 
37,018
  
  
 
(3,227
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred:
  



  



  




 Federal
  
 
34,237
  
  
 
21,355
  
  
 
37,646
  

 State and local
  
 
863
  
  
 
5,455
  
  
 
7,549
  

 Foreign
  
 
12,087
  
  
 
904
  
  
 
1,087
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred
  
 
47,187
  
  
 
27,714
  
  
 
46,282
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income taxes relating to continuing operations
  
$
71,933
  
  
$
64,732
  
  
$
43,055
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Income taxes relating to income from continuing operations varied from the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate
due to the following:     
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Income taxes relating to continuing operations at federal statutory rate of 35%
  
$
86,936
  
 
$
65,526
  
 
$
43,274
  

 State and local income taxes, net of federal taxes
  
 
1,925
  
 
 
6,075
  
 
 
5,701
  

 Foreign
  
 
(944
) 
 
 
(6,001
) 
 
 
(7,115
) 

 Uncertain tax positions
  
 
(16,061
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
77
  
 
 
(868
) 
 
 
1,195
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income taxes relating to continuing operations
  
$
71,933
  
 
$
64,732
  
 
$
43,055
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-29



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010
were as follows:     












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred Tax Assets
  



 




 Accrued liabilities
  
$
51,323
  
 
$
46,562
  

 Net operating loss carryforwards
  
 
12,133
  
 
 
23,164
  

 Interest rate swap
  
 
6,215
  
 
 
297
  

 Other
  
 
7,027
  
 
 
2,787
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
76,698
  
 
 
72,810
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(11,839
) 
 
 
(7,335
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
 
64,859
  
 
 
65,475
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred Tax Liabilities
  



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(121,723
) 
 
 
(94,742
) 

 Partnership investments
  
 
(109,460
) 
 
 
(104,527
) 

 Convertible notes
  
 
(21,335
) 
 
 
(17,454
) 

 Other
  
 
(3,357
) 
 
 
(2,421
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(255,875
) 
 
 
(219,144
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax liabilities
  
$
(191,016
) 
 
$
(153,669
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The Company does not provide for U.S. taxes relating to undistributed earnings or losses of its foreign
subsidiaries. Income from continuing operations before income taxes of foreign subsidiaries (which subsidiaries are predominately in the U.K.) was $98,158, $98,754 and $93,138 during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively. It is the Company’s belief that such earnings will be indefinitely reinvested in the companies that produced them. At December 31, 2011, the Company has not provided U.S. federal income taxes on a total of $700,356 of
earnings of individual foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were remitted as dividends, the Company would be subject to U.S. income taxes in excess of foreign taxes paid and certain foreign withholding taxes. 
At December 31, 2011, the Company has $151,067 of state net operating loss carryforwards in the U.S. that expire at various dates
beginning in 2012 through 2030, state credit carryforwards of $1,452 that will not expire, U.K. net operating loss carryforwards of $1,772 that will not expire, U.K. capital loss carryforwards of $5,109 that will not expire, and German net operating
loss carryforwards of $8,529 that will not expire. The Company utilized $41,232 of federal net operating loss carryforwards, $90,121 of state net operating loss carryforwards and $3,987 of alternative minimum tax and general business credits in the
U.S in 2011.  A valuation allowance of $2,979 has been recorded against the state net operating loss carryforwards in the U.S.
and a valuation allowance of $235 has been recorded against the state credit carryforwards in the U.S. A valuation allowance of $2,024 has been recorded in 2011 against German net operating losses and a valuation allowance of $6,601 has been
recorded in 2011 against U.K. deferred tax assets related to buildings. 
  F-30



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
Generally accepted accounting principles relating to uncertain income tax positions
prescribe a minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized, and provides guidance on the derecognition, measurement, classification, and disclosure relating to income taxes. The movement in uncertain tax
positions for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were as follows:     
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Uncertain tax positions — January 1
  
$
36,097
  
 
$
36,887
  
 
$
32,901
  

 Gross increase — tax position in prior periods
  
 
679
  
 
 
1,493
  
 
 
2,411
  

 Gross decrease — tax position in prior periods
  
 
(19,077
) 
 
 
(288
) 
 
 
(165
) 

 Gross increase — current period tax position
  
 
17
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Settlements
  
 
(2,201
) 
 
 
(125
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Lapse in statute of limitations
  
 
(541
) 
 
 
(756
) 
 
 
(1,227
) 

 Foreign exchange
  
 
(116
) 
 
 
(1,114
) 
 
 
2,967
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Uncertain tax positions — December 31
  
$
14,858
  
 
$
36,097
  
 
$
36,887
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The Company has elected to include interest and penalties in its income tax expense. The total interest and penalties
included within uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2011 was $3,678. The Company does not expect a significant change to the amount of uncertain tax positions within the next twelve months. The Company’s U.S. federal returns
remain open to examination for 2004 to 2010 and various foreign and U.S. states jurisdictions are open for periods ranging from 2002 through 2010. During the year a settlement was reached with the U.K. tax authorities in relation to tax
enquiries for the years 2004 to 2009 in relation to one of the U.K. companies. The portion of the total amount of uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2011 that would, if recognized, impact the effective tax rate was $14,531. 
The Company has classified its tax reserves as a long term obligation on the basis that management does not expect to make payments
relating to those reserves within the next twelve months.   


16.
Segment Information 
The Company’s operations are organized by management into operating segments by line of business and geography.
The Company has determined it has two reportable segments as defined in generally accepted accounting principles for segment reporting, including: (i) Retail, consisting of our automotive retail operations and (ii) PAG Investments,
consisting of our investments in non-automotive retail operations. The Retail reportable segment includes all automotive dealerships and all departments relevant to the operation of the dealerships and the retail automotive joint ventures. The
individual dealership operations included in the Retail reportable segment have been grouped into four geographic operating segments, which have been aggregated into one reportable segment as their operations (A) have similar economic
characteristics (all are automotive dealerships having similar margins), (B) offer similar products and services (all sell new and used vehicles, service, parts and third-party finance and insurance products), (C) have similar target
markets and customers (generally individuals) and (D) have similar distribution and marketing practices (all distribute products and services through dealership facilities that market to customers in similar fashions). The accounting policies
of the segments are the same and are described in Note 1. 
  F-31



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
The following table summarizes revenues, floor plan interest expense, other interest
expense, debt discount amortization, depreciation and amortization, equity in earnings of affiliates, and income (loss) from continuing operations before certain non-recurring items and income taxes, which is the measure by which management
allocates resources to its segments and which we refer to as adjusted segment income (loss), for each of the Company’s reportable segments. Adjusted segment income excludes the items in the table below in order to enhance the comparability of
segment income from period to period.     
















 
  
Retail
 
  
PAGInvestments
 
  
Total
 

 Revenues
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
11,556,232
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
11,556,232
  

 2010
  
 
10,328,385
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
10,328,385
  

 2009
  
 
9,012,217
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,012,217
  

 Floor plan interest expense
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
28,515
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
28,515
  

 2010
  
 
33,779
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
33,779
  

 2009
  
 
34,097
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
34,097
  

 Other interest expense
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
45,020
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
45,020
  

 2010
  
 
49,176
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
49,176
  

 2009
  
 
55,085
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
55,085
  

 Debt discount amortization
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
1,718
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,718
  

 2010
  
 
8,637
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
8,637
  

 2009
  
 
13,043
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
13,043
  

 Depreciation 
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
48,903
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
48,903
  

 2010
  
 
46,253
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
46,253
  

 2009
  
 
51,401
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
51,401
  

 Equity in earnings of affiliates
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
2,196
  
  
$
23,255
  
  
$
25,451
  

 2010
  
 
2,577
  
  
 
17,992
  
  
 
20,569
  

 2009
  
 
2,617
  
  
 
11,191
  
  
 
13,808
  

 Adjusted segment income 
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
225,133
  
  
$
23,255
  
  
$
248,388
  

 2010
  
 
169,722
  
  
 
17,992
  
  
 
187,714
  

 2009
  
 
101,620
  
  
 
11,191
  
  
 
112,811
  

The following table reconciles total adjusted segment income to consolidated income from continuing operations before
income taxes.     
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Adjusted segment income
  
$
248,388
  
  
$
187,714
  
  
$
112,811
  

 Gain on debt repurchase
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,634
  
  
 
10,429
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
  
$
248,388
  
  
$
189,348
  
  
$
123,240
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-32



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
Total assets, equity method investments, and capital expenditures by reporting segment
are as set forth in the table below.     
















 
  
Retail
 
  
PAGInvestments
 
  
Total
 

 Total assets
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
4,253,570
  
  
$
248,729
  
  
$
4,502,299
  

 2010
  
 
3,833,530
  
  
 
236,302
  
  
 
4,069,832
  

 Equity method investments
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
49,911
  
  
$
248,729
  
  
$
298,640
  

 2010
  
 
52,104
  
  
 
236,302
  
  
 
288,406
  

 Capital expenditures
  



  



  




 2011
  
$
133,115
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
133,115
  

 2010
  
 
75,699
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
75,699
  

 2009
  
 
89,203
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
89,203
  

The following table presents certain data by geographic area: 
   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Sales to external customers:
  



  



  




 U.S.
  
$
7,294,981
  
  
$
6,460,046
  
  
$
5,546,551
  

 Foreign
  
 
4,261,251
  
  
 
3,868,339
  
  
 
3,465,666
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total sales to external customers
  
$
11,556,232
  
  
$
10,328,385
  
  
$
9,012,217
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Long-lived assets, net:
  



  



  




 U.S.
  
$
846,108
  
  
$
738,779
  
  




 Foreign
  
 
325,005
  
  
 
280,726
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total long-lived assets
  
$
1,171,113
  
  
$
1,019,505
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




The Company’s foreign operations are predominantly based in the U.K. 
  F-33



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   


17.
Summary of Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
   




















 
  
FirstQuarter
 
  
SecondQuarter
 
  
ThirdQuarter
 
  
FourthQuarter
 

 2011(1)(2)
  



  



  



  




 Total revenues
  
$
2,779,690
  
  
$
2,874,905
  
  
$
2,942,520
  
  
$
2,959,117
  

 Gross profit
  
 
442,188
  
  
 
461,646
  
  
 
465,736
  
  
 
455,820
  

 Net income
  
 
33,997
  
  
 
40,059
  
  
 
56,045
  
  
 
48,157
  

 Net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
 
33,927
  
  
 
39,560
  
  
 
55,707
  
  
 
47,687
  

 Diluted earnings per share attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
$
0.37
  
  
$
0.43
  
  
$
0.61
  
  
$
0.53
  







 2010(1)(2)(3)
  



  



  



  




 Total revenues
  
$
2,402,149
  
  
$
2,596,383
  
  
$
2,659,549
  
  
$
2,670,304
  

 Gross profit
  
 
396,747
  
  
 
413,883
  
  
 
416,557
  
  
 
416,928
  

 Net income
  
 
20,332
  
  
 
29,684
  
  
 
30,260
  
  
 
29,071
  

 Net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
 
20,354
  
  
 
29,441
  
  
 
29,977
  
  
 
28,509
  

 Diluted earnings per share attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
$
0.22
  
  
$
0.32
  
  
$
0.33
  
  
$
0.31
  
  


(1)
As discussed in Note 4, the Company has treated the operations of certain entities as discontinued operations. The results for all periods have been restated to
reflect such treatment. 


(2)
Per share amounts are calculated independently for each of the quarters presented. The sum of the quarters may not equal the full year per share amounts due to
rounding. 


(3)
Results for the year ended December 31, 2010 include first, second, and third quarter pre-tax gains of $605, $422, and $607, respectively, relating to the
repurchase of $155,658 aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes. 
  F-34



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   


18.
Condensed Consolidating Financial Information 
The following tables include condensed consolidating financial information as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 for Penske Automotive Group, Inc. (as the issuer of the Convertible Notes and the 7.75% Notes), guarantor subsidiaries and non-guarantor subsidiaries (primarily representing foreign
entities). The condensed consolidating financial information includes certain allocations of balance sheet, income statement and cash flow items which are not necessarily indicative of the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of
these entities on a stand-alone basis. 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET 
December 31, 2011   
























 
  
TotalCompany
 
  
Eliminations
 
 
PenskeAutomotiveGroup
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
29,116
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
27,035
  
  
$
2,081
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
444,673
  
  
 
(297,782
) 
 
 
305,386
  
  
 
283,281
  
  
 
153,788
  

 Inventories
  
 
1,605,280
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
904,820
  
  
 
700,460
  

 Other current assets
  
 
80,307
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,306
  
  
 
40,412
  
  
 
37,589
  

 Assets held for sale
  
 
33,224
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
21,073
  
  
 
12,151
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
2,192,600
  
  
 
(297,782
) 
 
 
307,692
  
  
 
1,276,621
  
  
 
906,069
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
858,975
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
6,730
  
  
 
548,985
  
  
 
303,260
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
1,138,586
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
701,717
  
  
 
436,869
  

 Equity method investments
  
 
298,640
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
246,658
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
51,982
  

 Other long-term assets
  
 
13,498
  
  
 
(1,360,808
) 
 
 
1,369,182
  
  
 
3,389
  
  
 
1,735
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
4,502,299
  
  
$
(1,658,590
) 
 
$
1,930,262
  
  
$
2,530,712
  
  
$
1,699,915
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Floor plan notes payable
  
$
988,650
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
560,998
  
  
$
427,652
  

 Floor plan notes payable — non-trade
  
 
713,635
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
90,892
  
  
 
345,674
  
  
 
277,069
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
223,313
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,633
  
  
 
112,955
  
  
 
108,725
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
202,761
  
  
 
(297,782
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
99,528
  
  
 
401,015
  

 Current portion of long-term debt
  
 
3,414
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
3,414
  
  
 
—  
  

 Liabilities held for sale
  
 
17,899
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
6,465
  
  
 
11,434
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
2,149,672
  
  
 
(297,782
) 
 
 
92,525
  
  
 
1,129,034
  
  
 
1,225,895
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
846,777
  
  
 
(38,073
) 
 
 
697,324
  
  
 
77,060
  
  
 
110,466
  

 Deferred tax liabilities
  
 
217,902
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
198,348
  
  
 
19,554
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
147,535
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
93,328
  
  
 
54,207
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
3,361,886
  
  
 
(335,855
) 
 
 
789,849
  
  
 
1,497,770
  
  
 
1,410,122
  

 Total equity
  
 
1,140,413
  
  
 
(1,322,735
) 
 
 
1,140,413
  
  
 
1,032,942
  
  
 
289,793
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
4,502,299
  
  
$
(1,658,590
) 
 
$
1,930,262
  
  
$
2,530,712
  
  
$
1,699,915
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-35



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET 
December 31, 2010   
























 
  
TotalCompany
 
  
Eliminations
 
 
PenskeAutomotiveGroup
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
19,688
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
15,211
  
  
$
4,477
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
382,382
  
  
 
(269,021
) 
 
 
269,021
  
  
 
228,306
  
  
 
154,076
  

 Inventories
  
 
1,443,284
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
873,795
  
  
 
569,489
  

 Other current assets
  
 
68,225
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,127
  
  
 
32,547
  
  
 
34,551
  

 Assets held for sale
  
 
133,019
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
124,480
  
  
 
8,539
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
2,046,598
  
  
 
(269,021
) 
 
 
270,148
  
  
 
1,274,339
  
  
 
771,132
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
716,427
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
4,957
  
  
 
445,322
  
  
 
266,148
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
1,003,729
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
482,953
  
  
 
520,776
  

 Equity method investments
  
 
288,406
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
234,214
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
54,192
  

 Other long-term assets
  
 
14,672
  
  
 
(1,212,538
) 
 
 
1,222,168
  
  
 
3,088
  
  
 
1,954
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
4,069,832
  
  
$
(1,481,559
) 
 
$
1,731,487
  
  
$
2,205,702
  
  
$
1,614,202
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Floor plan notes payable
  
$
911,548
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
562,581
  
  
$
348,967
  

 Floor plan notes payable — non-trade
  
 
497,074
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
25,000
  
  
 
293,303
  
  
 
178,771
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
251,960
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2,186
  
  
 
86,190
  
  
 
163,584
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
201,714
  
  
 
(269,021
) 
 
 
564
  
  
 
95,978
  
  
 
374,193
  

 Current portion of long-term debt
  
 
10,593
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
1,264
  
  
 
9,329
  

 Liabilities held for sale
  
 
88,117
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
81,854
  
  
 
6,263
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
1,961,006
  
  
 
(269,021
) 
 
 
27,750
  
  
 
1,121,170
  
  
 
1,081,107
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
769,285
  
  
 
(77,593
) 
 
 
657,884
  
  
 
49,689
  
  
 
139,305
  

 Deferred tax liabilities
  
 
178,406
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
165,666
  
  
 
12,740
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
115,282
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
99,238
  
  
 
16,044
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
3,023,979
  
  
 
(346,614
) 
 
 
685,634
  
  
 
1,435,763
  
  
 
1,249,196
  

 Total equity
  
 
1,045,853
  
  
 
(1,134,945
) 
 
 
1,045,853
  
  
 
769,939
  
  
 
365,006
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
4,069,832
  
  
$
(1,481,559
) 
 
$
1,731,487
  
  
$
2,205,702
  
  
$
1,614,202
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-36



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS 
Year Ended December 31, 2011   
























 
  
TotalCompany
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
PenskeAutomotiveGroup
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Revenues
  
$
11,556,232
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
6,788,576
  
 
$
4,767,656
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
9,730,842
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,661,749
  
 
 
4,069,093
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
1,825,390
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,126,827
  
 
 
698,563
  

 Selling, general, and administrative expenses
  
 
1,478,297
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
18,978
  
 
 
900,362
  
 
 
558,957
  

 Depreciation
  
 
48,903
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,369
  
 
 
26,490
  
 
 
21,044
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
298,190
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(20,347
) 
 
 
199,975
  
 
 
118,562
  

 Floor plan interest expense
  
 
(28,515
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,364
) 
 
 
(14,434
) 
 
 
(12,717
) 

 Other interest expense
  
 
(45,020
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(25,464
) 
 
 
(3,276
) 
 
 
(16,280
) 

 Debt discount amortization
  
 
(1,718
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,718
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Equity in earnings of affiliates
  
 
25,451
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
23,044
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,407
  

 Equity in earnings of subsidiaries
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(272,860
) 
 
 
272,860
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
248,388
  
 
 
(272,860
) 
 
 
247,011
  
 
 
182,265
  
 
 
91,972
  

 Income taxes
  
 
(71,933
) 
 
 
79,461
  
 
 
(71,933
) 
 
 
(53,097
) 
 
 
(26,364
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
176,455
  
 
 
(193,399
) 
 
 
175,078
  
 
 
129,168
  
 
 
65,608
  

 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
1,803
  
 
 
(1,803
) 
 
 
1,803
  
 
 
2,608
  
 
 
(805
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
178,258
  
 
 
(195,202
) 
 
 
176,881
  
 
 
131,776
  
 
 
64,803
  

 Less: Income attributable to the non-controlling interests
  
 
1,377
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,377
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
$
176,881
  
 
$
(195,202
) 
 
$
176,881
  
 
$
131,776
  
 
$
63,426
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-37



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS 
Year Ended December 31, 2010   
























 
  
TotalCompany
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
PenskeAutomotiveGroup
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Revenues
  
$
10,328,385
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
5,923,698
  
 
$
4,404,687
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
8,684,270
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,934,474
  
 
 
3,749,796
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
1,644,115
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
989,224
  
 
 
654,891
  

 Selling, general, and administrative expenses
  
 
1,339,125
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,182
  
 
 
803,007
  
 
 
518,936
  

 Depreciation
  
 
46,253
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,116
  
 
 
25,236
  
 
 
19,901
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
258,737
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,298
) 
 
 
160,981
  
 
 
116,054
  

 Floor plan interest expense
  
 
(33,779
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(576
) 
 
 
(23,539
) 
 
 
(9,664
) 

 Other interest expense
  
 
(49,176
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(30,237
) 
 
 
(2,220
) 
 
 
(16,719
) 

 Debt discount amortization
  
 
(8,637
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8,637
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Equity in earnings of affiliates
  
 
20,569
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
18,367
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,202
  

 Gain on debt repurchase
  
 
1,634
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,634
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Equity in earnings of subsidiaries
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(226,029
) 
 
 
226,029
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
189,348
  
 
 
(226,029
) 
 
 
188,282
  
 
 
135,222
  
 
 
91,873
  

 Income taxes
  
 
(64,732
) 
 
 
77,710
  
 
 
(64,732
) 
 
 
(51,534
) 
 
 
(26,176
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
124,616
  
 
 
(148,319
) 
 
 
123,550
  
 
 
83,688
  
 
 
65,697
  

 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
(15,269
) 
 
 
15,269
  
 
 
(15,269
) 
 
 
(15,548
) 
 
 
279
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
109,347
  
 
 
(133,050
) 
 
 
108,281
  
 
 
68,140
  
 
 
65,976
  

 Less: Income attributable to the non- controlling interests
  
 
1,066
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,066
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
$
108,281
  
 
$
(133,050
) 
 
$
108,281
  
 
$
68,140
  
 
$
64,910
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-38



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS 
Year Ended December 31, 2009   
























 
  
TotalCompany
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
PenskeAutomotiveGroup
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Revenues
  
$
9,012,217
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
5,103,635
  
 
$
3,908,582
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
7,505,088
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,214,692
  
 
 
3,290,396
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
1,507,129
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
888,943
  
 
 
618,186
  

 Selling, general, and administrative expenses
  
 
1,254,500
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
18,259
  
 
 
749,693
  
 
 
486,548
  

 Depreciation
  
 
51,401
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,160
  
 
 
30,980
  
 
 
19,261
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
201,228
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,419
) 
 
 
108,270
  
 
 
112,377
  

 Floor plan interest expense
  
 
(34,097
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(23,804
) 
 
 
(10,293
) 

 Other interest expense
  
 
(55,085
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(41,036
) 
 
 
(140
) 
 
 
(13,909
) 

 Debt discount amortization
  
 
(13,043
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(13,043
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Equity in earnings of affiliates
  
 
13,808
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11,087
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,721
  

 Gain on debt repurchase
  
 
10,429
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,429
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Equity in earnings of subsidiaries
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(174,763
) 
 
 
174,763
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
123,240
  
 
 
(174,763
) 
 
 
122,781
  
 
 
84,326
  
 
 
90,896
  

 Income taxes
  
 
(43,055
) 
 
 
61,283
  
 
 
(43,055
) 
 
 
(35,394
) 
 
 
(25,889
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
80,185
  
 
 
(113,480
) 
 
 
79,726
  
 
 
48,932
  
 
 
65,007
  

 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
(3,265
) 
 
 
3,265
  
 
 
(3,265
) 
 
 
(981
) 
 
 
(2,284
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
76,920
  
 
 
(110,215
) 
 
 
76,461
  
 
 
47,951
  
 
 
62,723
  

 Less: Income attributable to the non- controlling interests
  
 
459
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
459
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Penske Automotive Group common stockholders
  
$
76,461
  
 
$
(110,215
) 
 
$
76,461
  
 
$
47,951
  
 
$
62,264
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-39



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
Year Ended December 31, 2011   




















 
  
TotalCompany
 
 
PenskeAutomotiveGroup
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Net cash from continuing operating activities
  
$
122,617
  
 
$
(39,449
) 
 
$
188,463
  
 
$
(26,397
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing activities:
  



 



 



 




 Purchase of property and equipment
  
 
(133,115
) 
 
 
(1,280
) 
 
 
(81,482
) 
 
 
(50,353
) 

 Dealership acquisitions, net
  
 
(232,106
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(230,426
) 
 
 
(1,680
) 

 Other
  
 
2,865
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,865
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing investing activities
  
 
(362,356
) 
 
 
(1,280
) 
 
 
(311,908
) 
 
 
(49,168
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing activities:
  



 



 



 




 Repayment under U.S. credit agreement term loan
  
 
(7,000
) 
 
 
(7,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes
  
 
(87,278
) 
 
 
(87,278
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net borrowings (repayments) of long-term debt
  
 
158,395
  
 
 
132,000
  
 
 
54,494
  
 
 
(28,099
) 

 Net (repayments) borrowings of floor plan notes payable — non-trade
  
 
216,561
  
 
 
65,892
  
 
 
44,821
  
 
 
105,848
  

 Proceeds from exercises of options, including excess tax benefit
  
 
3,370
  
 
 
3,370
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of common stock
  
 
(44,263
) 
 
 
(44,263
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Dividends
  
 
(21,992
) 
 
 
(21,992
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Distributions from (to) parent
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,139
  
 
 
(6,139
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing financing activities
  
 
217,793
  
 
 
40,729
  
 
 
105,454
  
 
 
71,610
  

 Net cash from discontinued operations
  
 
31,374
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29,815
  
 
 
1,559
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
9,428
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11,824
  
 
 
(2,396
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
  
 
19,688
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,211
  
 
 
4,477
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
  
$
29,116
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
27,035
  
 
$
2,081
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-40



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
Year Ended December 31, 2010   




















 
  
TotalCompany
 
 
PenskeAutomotiveGroup
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Net cash from continuing operating activities
  
$
198,440
  
 
$
133,059
  
 
$
40,532
  
 
$
24,849
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing activities:
  



 



 



 




 Purchase of property and equipment
  
 
(75,699
) 
 
 
(66
) 
 
 
(51,261
) 
 
 
(24,372
) 

 Dealership acquisitions, net
  
 
(22,232
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(22,232
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
13,822
  
 
 
13,822
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing investing activities
  
 
(84,109
) 
 
 
13,756
  
 
 
(73,493
) 
 
 
(24,372
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing activities:
  



 



 



 




 Repayment under U.S. credit agreement term loan
  
 
(15,000
) 
 
 
(15,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes
  
 
(156,604
) 
 
 
(156,604
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net borrowings (repayments) of long-term debt
  
 
(15,402
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(13,613
) 
 
 
(1,789
) 

 Net (repayments) borrowings of floor plan notes payable — non-trade
  
 
80,151
  
 
 
25,000
  
 
 
51,384
  
 
 
3,767
  

 Proceeds from exercises of options, including excess tax benefit
  
 
540
  
 
 
540
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of common stock
  
 
(751
) 
 
 
(751
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Distributions from (to) parent
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,365
  
 
 
(1,365
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing financing activities
  
 
(107,066
) 
 
 
(146,815
) 
 
 
39,136
  
 
 
613
  

 Net cash from discontinued operations
  
 
(5,796
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,283
) 
 
 
(2,513
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
1,469
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,892
  
 
 
(1,423
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
  
 
18,219
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,319
  
 
 
5,900
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
  
$
19,688
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
15,211
  
 
$
4,477
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-41



Table of Contents
PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (In thousands, except per share amounts) — (Continued)   
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
Year Ended December 31, 2009   




















 
  
TotalCompany
 
 
PenskeAutomotiveGroup
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Net cash from continuing operating activities
  
$
302,334
  
 
$
42,525
  
 
$
85,374
  
 
$
174,435
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing activities:
  



 



 



 




 Purchase of property and equipment
  
 
(89,203
) 
 
 
(240
) 
 
 
(65,310
) 
 
 
(23,653
) 

 Proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions
  
 
2,338
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,338
  
 
 
—  
  

 Dealership acquisitions, net
  
 
(8,517
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(597
) 
 
 
(7,920
) 

 Other
  
 
17,994
  
 
 
11,485
  
 
 
(206
) 
 
 
6,715
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing investing activities
  
 
(77,388
) 
 
 
11,245
  
 
 
(63,775
) 
 
 
(24,858
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing activities:
  



 



 



 




 Repayment under U.S. credit agreement term loan
  
 
(60,000
) 
 
 
(60,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase 3.5% senior subordinated convertible notes
  
 
(51,424
) 
 
 
(51,424
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net borrowings (repayments) of long-term debt
  
 
(17,402
) 
 
 
57,305
  
 
 
(126
) 
 
 
(74,581
) 

 Net (repayments) borrowings of floor plan notes payable — non-trade
  
 
(82,799
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(11,608
) 
 
 
(71,191
) 

 Proceeds from exercises of options, including excess tax benefit
  
 
349
  
 
 
349
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Distributions from (to) parent
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
317
  
 
 
(317
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing financing activities
  
 
(211,276
) 
 
 
(53,770
) 
 
 
(11,417
) 
 
 
(146,089
) 

 Net cash from discontinued operations
  
 
(11,266
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(12,534
) 
 
 
1,268
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
2,404
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,352
) 
 
 
4,756
  

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
  
 
15,815
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,671
  
 
 
1,144
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
  
$
18,219
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
12,319
  
 
$
5,900
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-42



Table of Contents
Schedule II 
 
SCHEDULE PENSKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC. 
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
 




















 Description
  
Balance atBeginningof Year
 
  
Additions
 
  
Deductions,Recoveries,& Other
 
 
Balanceat Endof Year
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2011
  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
1,884
  
  
$
1,142
  
  
$
(770
) 
 
$
2,256
  

 Tax valuation allowance
  
 
7,335
  
  
 
8,831
  
  
 
(4,327
) 
 
 
11,839
  

 Year Ended December 31, 2010
  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
1,644
  
  
$
948
  
  
$
(708
) 
 
$
1,884
  

 Tax valuation allowance
  
 
6,073
  
  
 
3,213
  
  
 
(1,951
) 
 
 
7,335
  

 Year Ended December 31, 2009
  



  



  



 




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
2,081
  
  
$
1,211
  
  
$
(1,648
) 
 
$
1,644
  

 Tax valuation allowance
  
 
3,378
  
  
 
3,649
  
  
 
(954
) 
 
 
6,073
  

  F-43




