
10-K
1
v308376_10k.htm
FORM 10-K






 
 
 
SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549 
 

 
FORM 10-K
 

 


x
 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 
 
 

For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012

 
 
 

o
 
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 
Commission
File Number: 0-21393
 

 
SEACHANGE INTERNATIONAL, INC.

(Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 


Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction
of incorporation or organization)
04-3197974
(IRS Employer
Identification No.)

 
50 Nagog Park, Acton, MA 01720
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(978)-897-0100
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
 
Securities Registered Pursuant To Section
12(b) Of The Act:
 
Common Stock, $.01 par value
 
Securities Registered Pursuant To Section
12(g) Of The Act:
 
None
 

 
Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes o
No x
 
Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes o
No x
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x
No o
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes   x    No
  o
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best of
the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or in any amendment to this Form 10-K. ¨
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


Large accelerated filer o
Accelerated filer x

 
 

Non-accelerated filer o
Smaller reporting company o

 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes o
No x
 
As
of July 29, 2011, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the closing
price for the registrant’s Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on such date was $300,598,856. The number of shares
of the registrant’s Common Stock outstanding as of the close of business on March 29, 2012 was 32,756,219.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 
Portions
of the definitive Proxy Statement (which is expected to be filed within 120 days after the Company’s fiscal year end) relating
to the registrant’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on or about July 18, 2012 to be filed pursuant to Regulation
14A are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 


 
 

 
PART I
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR"
PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
The statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
of SeaChange International, Inc. ("SeaChange," the "Company," "us," or "we"), including,
but not limited to the statements contained in Item 1, "Business," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of the Financial Condition and Results of Operations, along with statements contained in other reports that we have filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), external documents and oral presentations, which are not historical facts are
considered to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
and Section 21E of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended. These statements which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including
the use of forward looking terminology such as "believe," "expect," "seek," "intend," "may,"
"will," "should," "could," "potential," "continue," "estimate," "plan,"
or "anticipate," or the negatives thereof, other variations thereon or compatible terminology, relate to, among other
things, our transition to being a company that primarily provides software solutions, the effect of certain legal claims against
us, projected changes in our revenues, earnings and expenses, exchange rate sensitivity, interest rate sensitivity, liquidity,
product introductions, industry changes and general market conditions. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any
forward-looking statements.
 
These forward-looking statements, and any forward looking statements
contained in other public disclosures of the Company which make reference to the cautionary factors contained in this Form 10-K,
are based on assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on the considerations described below.
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in greater detail in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading
"Risk Factors." These and other risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to
differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
 
The following discussion should be read in conjunctions with
our "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and our financial statements
and footnotes contained in this Annual Report.
 
ITEM 1. Business
 
SeaChange
International, Inc., a Delaware corporation founded on July 9, 1993, is an industry leader in the delivery of multi-screen video.
Our products and services facilitate the aggregation, licensing, management and distribution of video, television programming and
advertising content. We sell our products and services worldwide primarily to cable system operators, including Cablevision Systems,
Comcast Cable Communications Management, LLC, Cox Communications,
Inc, Virgin Media, Limited, and Rogers Communications, Inc; and telecommunications companies, including AT&T Services, Inc,
Telekom Austria Group, Turk Telekom and Verizon Communications, Inc.
 
Our products and services are designed to enable our customers
to reduce capital expenditures and operating expenses, reduce subscriber turnover and access new revenue generating opportunities
from subscribers, advertisers and electronic commerce initiatives. Using our products and services, we believe our customers can
increase their revenues by offering additional services such as on-demand television programming on a variety of devices, including
cellular telephones, personal computers (PCs) and tablets. This capability allows the operator to offer programming incorporating
the ability for subscribers to pause, rewind and fast-forward on-demand content. Our products also allow our customers to insert
advertising into broadcast and on-demand programming. Our advertising products allow our customers to target advertising to specific
subscribers in a particular geographic and/or demographic market. In addition, our systems enable broadband system operators to
offer other interactive television services that allow subscribers to customize and/or dynamically interact with their television,
enhancing their viewing experience.
 
The primary thrust of our business has been to enable the delivery
of video assets in the evolving “on-demand” television environment. Through acquisitions and partnerships we have expanded
our capabilities, products and services to address the needs of video content owners, broadcasters, and content aggregators, and
to address the delivery of content to devices other than the television, such as mobile phones, tablets and PCs. Traditionally,
our products and services included hardware and software for content management and delivery systems, middleware that drives set
top box applications, advertising systems that help pay for content and services that involve the acquisition and distribution
of video content. As the industry is evolving, we are evaluating our non-core assets and focusing on higher margin, recurring revenue
generating software products. We believe that our strategy of expanding into adjacent product lines will position us to further
support and maintain our existing customer base. By providing our customers more technologically advanced software platforms, they
can further reduce their infrastructure costs and improve reliability. Additionally we are positioned to take advantage of new
customers entering the on-demand marketplace allowing us to serve adjacent markets, such as telecommunications.
 


3
 

 
Our core technologies provide a foundation for products and
services that can be deployed in next generation video delivery systems capable of increased levels of subscriber interactivity.
We have received several awards for technological excellence, including Emmy Awards for our patented MediaCluster ®
technology and for our role in the growth of video-on-demand.
 
Fiscal 2012 was a transition year for us. During fiscal 2012,
we were engaged in an evaluation of strategic alternatives regarding the future direction of the Company and as announced last
quarter, the Board of Directors decided that it is in the best interest of shareholders to continue as a standalone publicly traded
company. In addition, during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we announced a restructuring plan that will reduce our operating
costs in excess of $5.0 million in annualized cost savings that will be realized in fiscal 2013. We also experienced leadership
changes at the senior management level, but we have made swift replacements with the addition of a new Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer and the elimination of the position of President of the company. In fiscal year 2013, the Company will
continue to focus on significantly improving and streamlining its operations while continuing to transform into a pure play software
company, which we use to mean a company primarily focused on software solutions. We are also continuing to evaluate alternatives
for certain non-core businesses. On March 21, 2012, we signed a definitive asset sale agreement to divest certain portions of our
broadcast server and storage business, while retaining video streaming and related hardware. This transaction is expected to close
in the near future once customary regulatory approvals are received. Accordingly, our broadcast server and storage business unit
is reflected in our financial statements as a discontinued operation. This divesture will allow us to focus on our core software
and services operations including, our next generation back office, home gateway software and advertising solutions.
 
With the divestiture of a portion of our
broadcast servers and storage business, our operations are now realigned into two business segments, the software segment and the
media services segment. The software segment includes product revenues
from our Back Office including video streamers, Home Gateway and Advertising products as well as related services such as professional
services, installation, training, project management, product maintenance, and technical
support. Our media services segment is comprised of the operations of On-Demand Group (ODG) whose activities include content acquisition
and preparation services for television and wireless service providers. Financial information about our business segments
is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated
Financial Statements. 
 
Software

 
Our Software business segment is comprised of three distinct
product groups: back office products including video streamers, advertising products and in-home gateway products. Our revenue
sources from the Software segment consists of:
 

•product revenues from our advertising, back-office
including video streamers, and home gateway product solutions, related services such as professional services, installation, training,
project management, product maintenance, technical support and software development for those software products.

 


4
 

 
Back-Office Products:
 
In 2006, we began selling our SeaChange Axiom®
on-demand back office software independent of our hardware while offering subscription services in an effort to increase market
share and generate a more predictable recurring revenue stream. Additionally, by porting our software to other third party hardware
platforms, we increased our market share with opportunities at competitive vendors’ installations. In 2008, we saw
the need to move video to mobile devices, such as cellular telephones, PCs and tablets, and purchased Mobix Interactive Limited,
a United Kingdom based company that had developed software and services allowing mobile service operators to offer video products.
To further enhance our back office product offerings, in September 2009, we acquired a private software company, eventIS Group
B.V. (“eventIS”), in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, who was a leading provider of video-on-demand back office software
products supporting operators primarily in Europe. Their software complemented and extended the capabilities of our video-on-demand
software products.
 
The integration of the software from eventIS and Mobix with
our legacy Axiom product has become the basis for our next generation back office software platform, Adrenalin. Adrenalin is backward
compatible with Axiom and is modular, allowing our installed base to gradually adopt new functionality and features to support
multi-screen video distribution. The purpose of back office software is to allow operators to centralize video distribution systems
thereby reducing dependence on hardware and ultimately controlling operating expenses. The software automates and streamlines functionality
in four crucial areas:
 

·Ingest of content including custom workflow, transcoding, encryption
and distribution.
 

·Content Management including data analysis and management of metadata.
 

·Business management such as advertising placement, contract rights
and subscriber entitlements, cloud-based monitoring and management and recommendation of social media applications.
 

·Publishing and purchasing, which allows content to be formatted for
viewing on any device as well as in High Definition or 3D formats.
 
According to SNL Kagan, a leading research firm for the television
industry, there are 80 million cable television subscribers in Europe compared to 70 million in the United States. However, unlike
in the U.S., digital cable penetration rates are quite low. Penetration rates growth in Europe are expected to rise with the increased
investments in video-on-demand products and services from European cable television providers and we believe that through our acquisitions
and development of next generation back office product offerings, we have positioned ourselves to capitalize on that penetration
rate.
 
Advertising Products:
 
As more content moves to mobile devices, the ability to generate
additional revenue by inserting personalized, targeted advertising on these devices becomes crucial to operators in offsetting
content rights costs and reducing subscriber fees for viewing the content. Our Infusion Advanced Advertising Platform is the foundation
for the new breed of linear video advertising operations. Infusion scales to support operators’ migration to consolidated
regional and national advertising systems that are managed from increasingly web-centric and virtualized datacenters. Infusion
supports dynamic targeted advertising across multiple screens. This translates into more advertising spots available for sale by
the operators. Advertisers can now reach their audiences in video being viewed on cell phones, tablets, PCs and TVs while targeting
those ads to the particular viewer.
 
With our AdPulse advertising software
platform, ads and content are maintained in separate databases. They are ingested, managed and updated separately allowing for
fast and easy refresh, simple rotation of ad copy and targeting by geographic, demographic and viewing characteristics. Because
the ads are tracked separately from the content, the data provided includes detailed ad viewing and trick-mode (fast forward, rewind,
and pause) usage leading to easier analysis of reach and effectiveness.
 
Video-on-demand, digital video recorders (DVRs) and over-the-top
services, which we use to mean the delivery of content without the service provider being involved in the control or distribution
of the content itself, are also changing the way audiences view programming. Therefore, our next generation advertising product
strategy is creating new opportunities for our customers to capture local, regional and national advertising revenue from linear,
targeted linear and targeted dynamic on-demand advertising.
 


5
 

 
Home Gateway Products:
 
In February 2010, we acquired VividLogic Inc (“VividLogic”),
a private software company located in San Mateo, California. VividLogic’s products and services have enabled us to expand
our software product portfolio to participate more competitively in the home gateway market, which we use to mean the market for
the porting of video distribution to home devices.
 
As the state of video consumption evolves, we are using the
VividLogic platform to produce software that ports to any gateway hardware and acts as a hub for all video distribution to devices
throughout the home. Our Nucleus™ software product is a hybrid gateway, standards-based
solution supporting both QAM and IP-delivered video. Nucleus delivers a unified user experience across all platforms throughout
the home. The Nucleus Engine provides full control over set-top box functionality including channel changes, VOD/DVR playback and
trick mode such as fast forward or rewind. It enables media sharing including photos, audio/MP3, video files and recorded assets.
The Nucleus Presentation Manager supports next generation user interfaces (UI) including our own Nitro User Interface. It supports
applications and widgets such as smartphone and tablet remote control. 
 
Media Services 
 
Through the acquisition of On
Demand Group (ODG) in fiscal 2006, we expanded our media content services, which consists of content aggregation and distribution.
In Europe, ODG is a leader in the development and deployment of Pay TV services. This segment specializes in aggregating content
for video-on-demand and Pay-Per-View platforms, and provides marketing, promotional and production services to cable operators
and telecommunications providers throughout Europe, the Middle East and, more recently, Latin America. In addition,
ODG also specializes in branded service creation and end-to-end management of such services,
such as with its 'TV on-demand' service which it developed to run on mobile, cable and telecommunication network operators in these
regions. 
 
ODG also sources, acquires, packages,
and markets video-on-demand services by providing access to content from local and Hollywood studio providers in multiple formats
including music videos, television programs and feature length movies. Through ODG, we have a content rights management system
and a content preparation center for incorporating video content for VOD services from the major content suppliers around the world.
  
 
Strategy 
 
Our strategy is to maintain and expand our installed customer
base while increasing our revenue base with new customers, especially in the telecommunications industry, delivering exceptional
customer service, positioning ourselves as an industry leader in the delivery of multi-screen video through our transformation
to a pure play software company, while continually focusing on our customer's critical needs and problems.
 
We plan to execute this strategy by:
 

·Growing revenues through the introduction of our next generation software
platforms, such as Adrenalin for back office, Infusion and AdPulse for our advertising product line and the expansion of our home
gateway product line; 
 

·Reducing our overall cost structure and further streamlining our operations;
 

·Divesting of business units or product offerings that are not core or profitable to our business; and
 

·Acquiring or investing in businesses that will enhance our product offerings and be accretive to our business
 


6
 

 
Research and Product Development 
 
We believe
that our success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce timely new integrated solutions and enhancements to our existing
products that meet changing customer requirements in our current and future customer base as well as new markets. We have made
and will continue to make substantial investments in our products and new technologies. Our current research and development activities
are focused on developing next generation back office software, gateway software and advertising solutions in the multi-screen
video market. Our direct sales and marketing groups closely monitor
changes in customer needs, changes in the marketplace and emerging industry standards to help us focus our research and development
efforts to address our customer's needs, help solve their problems, and lower their operating and capital costs. Our lead engineers
are deeply involved in industry standards bodies such as the NCTA and the SCTE where they help define the direction of the next
generation of products and standards. Our research and development efforts are performed at our Acton, MA headquarters, Milpitas,
CA and Eindhoven, the Netherlands. 
 
During fiscal 2012, we have realigned our research and development
efforts to focus on the next generation networks and video delivery platforms which are vital to our customer’s success.
We are achieving this by reducing or ending our investment on certain legacy product lines, evaluating divestiture of non-core
business units and assets while reallocating resources to our three fundamental software products: Adrenalin for the back office,
Nucleus the new Home Gateway software for the delivery of video and applications throughout the home and next generation advertising
products such as Infusion and AdPulse.
 
As of January 31, 2012, we had a research and development staff
of 427 employees, representing 37% of our total employee workforce. As of January 31, 2011 and 2010, we had a research and development
staff of 469 and 502 which represented 39% and 41% of our total workforce, respectively. Upon completion of our divestiture of
our former broadcast servers and storage business unit, our research and development staff will be reduced by approximately 99
employees with many of them moving to the acquiring entity.
 
Selling and Marketing 
 
We sell and market our products worldwide through a direct sales
organization, independent agents and distributors. Direct and indirect sales activities are primarily conducted from our Massachusetts
headquarters and our European facility in Eindhoven, as well as through sales representatives deployed in different regions of
the globe. We also market certain of our products to systems integrators and value-added resellers. Our sales cycle tends to be
long, in some instances twelve to twenty-four months, and purchase orders are typically in excess of one million dollars. As a
result our revenues are sometimes difficult to predict as to what quarter or fiscal year our revenues may be realized.
 
In light of the complexity of our digital video products, we
primarily utilize a direct sales process. Working closely with customers to understand and define their needs enables us to obtain
better information regarding market requirements, enhance our expertise in our customers’ industries, and more effectively
and precisely convey to customers how our solutions address the customer’s specific needs. In addition to the direct sales
process, customer references and visits by potential customers to sites where our products are in place are often critical in the
sales process.
 
We use several marketing programs to focus on our targeted markets
to support the sale and distribution of our products. We attend and exhibit our products at a limited number of prominent industry
trade shows and conferences and we present our technology at seminars and smaller conferences to promote the awareness of our products.
We also publish articles in trade and technical journals.
 
Our Media Services segment based in London uses a direct sales
force to market and sell its services to customers throughout Europe, Middle East, and Latin America. This group is highly specialized
in providing content and marketing solutions for cable, telecommunications and mobile operators who want to offer pay video services
but do not have the capabilities in-house to license, format and market the content.

 


7
 

 
As of January 31, 2012, we had a marketing and sales staff of
77 employees, representing 7% of our total employee workforce. As of January 31, 2011 and 2010, we had a marketing and sales staff
of 94 and 93 people representing 8% of our total workforce for both of these years, respectively. Upon completion of our divestiture
of our former broadcast servers and storage business unit, our sales and marketing staff will be reduced by approximately 15 employees.
 
Manufacturing and Quality Control
 
Our hardware manufacturing operation consists primarily of component
and subassembly procurement, systems integration and final assembly, testing and quality control of the complete systems. We rely
on independent contractors to manufacture components and subassemblies to our specifications.
 
In May of 2009, we announced that we had achieved TL9000 certification
across multiple locations. The QuEST Forum, a consortium of telecommunications suppliers and service providers, developed the TL9000
standard using the framework of the ISO 9000 international standard as a basis to pursue a goal of global telecommunications quality
and industry-wide performance excellence. We continue to maintain this certification for quality management systems.
 
As of January 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, we had a manufacturing
staff of approximately 27, 29, and 31 people respectively, representing approximately 2% of our total workforce.
 
Our Customers
 
We currently
sell our products primarily to cable system operators, broadcast and telecommunications companies and mobile communications providers.
Our customer base is highly concentrated among a limited number of large
customers, primarily due to the fact that the cable and telecommunications industries in the United States are dominated by a limited
number of large companies. A significant portion of our revenues across each of our segments in any given fiscal period have been
derived from substantial orders placed by these large organizations. For the year ended January 31, 2012, Comcast and Virgin Media
comprised 20% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues. For the year ended January 31, 2011, Comcast and Virgin Media comprised
22% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenues. We expect that we will continue to be dependent upon a limited number of customers
for a significant portion of our revenues in the near future, even as we intend to penetrate new markets and customers. As a result
of this customer concentration, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected
by the failure of anticipated orders to materialize and by deferrals or cancellations of orders as a result of changes in customer
requirements or new product announcements or introductions. In addition, the concentration of customers may cause variations in
revenue, expenses and operating results on a quarterly basis due to seasonality of orders or the timing and relative size of orders
received and shipped during a fiscal quarter.
 
We do not believe that our backlog at any particular time is
meaningful as an indicator of our future level of sales for any particular period. Because of the nature of our products and our
use of standard components, substantially the entire backlog at the end of a quarter can be manufactured and shipped to the customer
before the end of the following quarter. However, because of the requirements of particular customers, these orders may not be
shipped or, if shipped, the related revenues may not be recognized in the ensuing quarter. Therefore, there is no direct correlation
between the backlog at the end of any quarter and our total sales for the following quarter or other periods.
 
Competition 
 
The markets in which we compete are characterized by intense
competition, with a large number of suppliers providing different types of products to different segments of the markets. In new
markets for our products, we compete principally based on price. In markets in which we have an established presence, we compete
principally on the basis of the breadth of our products’ features and benefits, including the flexibility, scalability, professional
quality, ease of use, reliability and cost effectiveness of our products, and our reputation and the depth of our expertise, customer
service and support. While we believe that we currently compete favorably overall with respect to these factors and that our ability
to provide integrated solutions to manage, store and distribute digital video differentiates us from our competitors, in the future
we may not be able to continue to compete successfully with respect to these factors.
 


8
 

 
In the market for multi-screen video-on-demand, we compete with
various companies offering video software and server platforms such as Concurrent Computer Corp., Arris Group Inc. (through its
2007 acquisition of C-Cor Corporation), Cisco Systems, Inc., Motorola Mobility Inc., and Ericsson Inc.
 
In the media home gateway market we compete with set top box
manufacturers and gateway vendors who offer proprietary software and hardware solutions. However, because our software has been
integrated with the two largest chip manufactures, Intel and Broadcom, we believe we obtain a competitive advantage when these
chips are designed into the networks by the operators.
 
Our Media Services business unit is unique in that the principal
competition it faces is from service provider customers who decide to take the licensing and marketing of content in-house and
would not have a need for the services we provide. However, it has been our experience that most operators outside of North America
do not wish to deal with the complexities of negotiating content rights contracts and license agreements.
 
In the digital advertisement insertion market, we generally
compete with Arris Group Inc. We expect the competition in each of the markets in which we operate to intensify in the future as
existing and new competitors with significant market presence and financial resources, including computer hardware and software
companies and television equipment manufacturers enter these rapidly evolving markets.
 
Many of our current and prospective competitors have significantly
greater financial, technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and other resources. As a result, these competitors may be able to
devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Moreover, these companies may introduce
additional products that are competitive with ours or enter into strategic relationships to offer complete solutions, and in the
future our products may not be able to compete effectively with these products.
 
Proprietary Rights 
 
Our success and our ability to compete are dependent, in part,
upon our proprietary rights. We have been granted nineteen U.S. patents and have filed foreign patent applications related thereto
for various technologies developed and used in our products. In addition, we rely on a combination of contractual rights, trademark
laws, trade secrets and copyright laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. It is possible that in
the future not all of these patent applications will be issued or that, if issued, the validity of these patents would not be upheld.
It is also possible that the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property will be inadequate to prevent misappropriation
of our technology or that our competitors will independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior
to our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be distributed do not protect
our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We have been involved, and continue to be involved,
in significant intellectual property litigation, and we may be a party to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual
property rights or as a result of an allegation that we infringe others’ intellectual property.
 


9
 

 
Employees
 
The table below represents the number of employees that we employ
in different geographic areas across the world. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. None of our employees
are represented by a collective bargaining agreement.
 


  
January 31, 

Country 
2012 (1)  
2011  
2010 

United States 
 449  
 521  
 618 

China 
 0  
 117  
 154 

Philippines 
 193  
 235  
 164 

United Kingdom 
 172  
 170  
 122 

Netherlands 
 87  
 79  
 66 

Other International 
 82  
 87  
 99 

Total employees by country 
 983  
 1,209  
 1,223 

 
 

(1)FY12 in the above table does not include 170 employees that are included in the divestiture of our broadcast servers and storage
business unit.
 
Executive Officers
 
Executive officers of the Company as of March 31, 2012 and their
biographical information as set forth below:
 
Raghu Rau
 
Chief Executive Officer, and Board member. Mr. Rau became the
Chief Executive officer on November 30, 2011; has served as a Director of the Company since July 15, 2010; Mr. Rau currently also
serves on the Board of Aviat Networks, Inc.. Since 2010, Mr. Rau has also served as a director of Microtune, Inc., the receiver
solutions company. From 1992 to 2008, he held a number of positions with Motorola, Inc., including leadership positions in marketing
and strategy and held the title of Senior Vice President, Mobile TV Solutions Business from 2007 to 2008. Age 62.
 
Michael D. Bornak
 
Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Secretary, and Senior Vice
President of Finance and Administration since January 23, 2012; prior thereto, served as Chief Financial Officer of Tollgrade Communications,
Inc. from September 2009; prior thereto served as Chief Financial Officer of Solar Power Industries, Inc. from June 2008 to July
2009; Chief Financial Officer for MHF Logistical Solutions, Inc. from February 2005 to June 2008; Vice President of Finance and
Chief Financial Officer of Portec Rail Products, Inc. from January 1998 to February 2005. Mr. Bornak is also a Certified Public
Accountant. Age 49.
 
Steven M. Davi
 
Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer since March,
2012.; prior thereto served as Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July 2005; Mr. Davi joined the company in November
1997, having served as head of our engineering teams for back-office, advertising, applications and multi-screen video software;
prior thereto Mr. Davi served in engineering and managerial positions at Banyan Systems Inc., Prior to joining Banyan Systems,
he was in various engineering positions within the networking division at Data General. He holds a Bachelors degree and a Masters
degree in Computer Science. Age 48.
 
Erwin van Dommelen
 
President, SeaChange Software Division, joined us in 2009 when
the Company acquired Netherlands-based video software provider eventIS where he served as CEO; prior thereto held numerous technical
and management positions including Director/Practice Manager at KPMG UK; Program Director High Speed Data and Voice at Cablecom;
and Project Manager/System Architect at Philips Digital Television Services. Mr. van Dommelen attended the Hogeschool (University
of Applied Sciences) Utrecht, graduating in Telecommunication Science. Age 45.
 

10
 

 
Ira Goldfarb
 
Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Service since
October 2010; prior thereto joined the Company in 1994 as U.S. Central Regional Sales Vice President; prior thereto held several
sales management positions at Digital Equipment Corporation beginning in September 1983. Age 54.
 
Anthony Kelly
 
Executive
Vice President, Senior Vice President of SeaChange since September 2005; prior thereto held the position of Chief Executive Officer
of ODG since 1996;prior thereto Mr. Kelly served as a director of the Lambie Nairn Group from May 1992 to December 1994
and as an executive at Video Networks Limited from December 1992 to April 1995. Prior to that, from July 1990 to April 1992,  Mr.
Kelly served as CEO of the Palace Group, a major UK independent film producer and distributor.
Age 50.
 
Geographic Information
 
Geographic information is included in Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Available Information 
 
SeaChange
is subject to the informational requirements pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the “Exchange Act”). SeaChange files periodic reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained
by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and
other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 
 
Financial
and other information about SeaChange, including SeaChange’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and charters for SeaChange’s
Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, is available on our website (www.schange.com).
We make available free of charge on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on our web site is not incorporated
by reference into this document and should not be considered a part of this Annual Report. Our web site address is included in
this document as an inactive textual reference only.
 


11
 

 
ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 
 
We wish to caution each reader of this Form 10-K to consider
the following factors and other factors discussed herein and in other past reports, including but not limited to prior year Form
10-K and quarterly Form 10-Q reports filed with the SEC. Our business and results of operations could be materially affected by
any of the following risks. The factors discussed herein are not exhaustive. Therefore, the factors contained herein should be
read together with other reports that we file with the SEC from time to time, which may supplement, modify, supersede, or update
the factors listed in this document.
 
Our business is dependent on customers’ continued spending
on video systems and services, and reductions by customers in spending adversely affect our business. 
 
Our performance is dependent on customers’ continued spending
for video systems and services. Spending for these systems and services is cyclical and can be curtailed or deferred on short notice.
A variety of factors affect the amount of spending, and, therefore, our sales and profits, including:
 

·general economic conditions;
 

·customer specific financial or stock market conditions;
 

·availability and cost of capital;
 

·governmental regulation;
 

·demand for services;
 

·competition from other providers of video systems and services;
 

·acceptance of new video systems and services by our customers; and
 

·real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors.
 
Any reduction in spending by our customers would adversely affect
our business. We continue to have limited visibility into the capital spending plans of our current and prospective customers.
Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our planned expense levels depend in
part on our expectations of future revenue. Our planned expenses include significant investments, particularly within our research
and development organization, which we believe are necessary to continue to provide innovative solutions to meet our current and
prospective customers’ needs. As a result, it is difficult to forecast revenue and operating results. If our revenue and
operating results are below the expectations of our investors and market analysts, it could cause a decline in the price of our
common stock.
 
Our future success is dependent on the continued development
of the multi-screen video market and if the multi-screen video does not continue to develop, our business may not continue to grow.

 
A large portion of our expected revenue growth is expected to
come from sales and services related to our multi-screen video products. However, the multi-screen video market continues to develop
as a commercial market, both within and outside North America. The potential size of the multi-screen video market and the timing
of its development are uncertain. The success of this market requires that broadband system operators continue to upgrade their
cable networks to support digital two-way transmission service and successfully market multi-screen video and similar services
to their cable television subscribers. Some cable system operators, particularly outside of North America, are still in the early
stages of commercial deployment of multi-screen video service to major residential cable markets and, accordingly, to date our
digital video systems have been commercially available only to a limited number of subscribers. Also, the telecommunications companies
have also begun to adapt their networks to support digital two-way transmission and begun marketing multi-screen video services.
If cable system operators and telecommunications companies fail to make the capital expenditures necessary to upgrade their networks
or determine that broad deployment of multi-screen video services is not viable as a business proposition or if our digital video
systems cannot support a substantial number of subscribers while maintaining a high level of performance, our revenues will not
grow as we have planned.
 


12
 

 
If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or
enhancements to existing products on a timely basis, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by
a decrease in sales of our products. 
 
Because our business plan is based on technological development
of new products and enhancements to our existing products, our future success is dependent on our successful introduction of these
new products and enhancements on a timely basis. In the future we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful
development, introduction and marketing of these and other new products and enhancements, or find that our new products and enhancements
do not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Announcements of currently planned or
other new product offerings may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products. Moreover, despite testing by us and
by current and potential customers, errors or failures may be found in our products, and, even if discovered, may not be successfully
corrected in a timely manner. These errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments, or require design
modifications that could adversely affect our competitive position. Currently, we are focused on the provision of next generation
software products, including SeaChange AdrenalinTM Back Office, SeaChange Nucleus TM Soft Box, and SeaChange Infusion TM Advanced
Advertising Platform. Our inability to develop new products or enhancements on a timely basis or the failure of these new products
or enhancements to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.
 
Our business is impacted by worldwide economic cycles, which
are difficult to predict. 
 
The global economy and financial markets experienced disruption
in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, diminished credit availability, rating downgrades
of certain investments and declining valuations of others. These economic developments and the rate of recovery from these developments
affect businesses such as ours and those of our customers and vendors in a number of ways that could result in unfavorable consequences
to us. A continued slow recovery from these events or further disruption and deterioration in economic conditions may reduce customer
purchases of our products and services, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. In addition, these events may, among other
things, result in increased price competition for our products and services, increased risk in the collectability of our accounts
receivable from our customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable,
and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. We have taken actions to address the effects of the economic crisis and
the slow recovery, including implementing cost control and cost reduction measures. It is possible that we may need to take further
actions to control our cost structure and implement further cost reduction measures. We cannot predict whether these measures will
be sufficient to offset certain of the negative trends that might affect our business.
 
We have taken and continue to take measures to address the
variability in the market for our products and services, which could have long-term negative effects on our business or impact
our ability to adequately address a rapid increase in customer demand. 
 
We have taken and continue to take measures to address the variability
in the market for our products and services, to increase average revenue per unit of our sales and to reduce our operating expenses,
rationalize capital expenditure and minimize customer turnover. These measures include shifting more of our operations to lower
cost regions, outsourcing and off shoring manufacturing processes and general and administrative functions, implementing cost reduction
programs, reducing the number of our employees, and reducing and rationalizing planned capital expenditures and expense budgets.
As previously announced we are selling our broadcast servers and storage business unit and continue to evaluate the divestiture
of non-core operations as we focus on becoming a company that primarily provides software solutions. We cannot ensure that the
measures we have taken will not impair our ability to effectively develop and market products and services, to remain competitive
in the industries in which we compete, to operate effectively, to operate profitably during slowdowns or to effectively meet a
rapid increase in customer demand. These measures may have long-term negative effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical
talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products and services, making it more difficult to hire and retain talented individuals
and to quickly respond to customers or competitors in an upward cycle.
 


13
 

 
Our business has been subject to uncertainties introduced
by the evaluation of strategic options completed by us in fiscal 2012. 
 
As previously disclosed, we completed an evaluation of strategic
options in fiscal 2012 and concluded that it was in the best interests of stockholders to remain a standalone public company, and
to focus on improving and streamlining our operations. This strategic review resulted in the expenditure of substantial management
time and resources, and may result in our customers reducing the level of orders they place with us, employees deciding to leave
the Company, a third party expressing interest in acquiring the Company, and other factors that may have a negative effect on our
business. It is also possible that we may be unsuccessful in improving and streamlining our operations. These factors may create
uncertainty in our operations that could cause our revenues to decline and that could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations and may cause fluctuations in our stock price.
 
We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to become a pure play
software company, by which we mean a company that primarily provides software solutions.
 
Our efforts to become a company that primarily provides software
solutions may result in a reduction both in the range of products and services we offer and in the range of our current and potential
future customers. Each of these factors may increase the level of execution risk in our strategy, in that there may be increased
variability in our revenues. If we are unsuccessful in this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operation
may be adversely affected, and the market price of our common stock may decrease.
 
Because our customer base is highly concentrated among a
limited number of large customers, the loss of or reduced demand by, or return of product by one or more of these customers, could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
 
Our customer base is highly concentrated among a limited number
of large customers, and, therefore, a limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of our revenues in any fiscal
period. We generally do not have written agreements that require customers to purchase fixed minimum quantities of our products.
Our sales to specific customers tend to vary significantly from year to year and from quarter to quarter depending upon these customers’
budgets for capital expenditures and our new product introductions. We believe that a significant amount of our revenues will continue
to be derived from a limited number of large customers in the future. The loss of, reduced demand for products or related services
by, or return of a product previously purchased by any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the industry has experienced consolidation among our customers which
may cause delays or reductions in capital expenditure plans and/or increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available
customers decline and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Any of these factors could adversely
affect our business.
 
Cancellation or deferral of purchases of our products or
the return of previously purchased products could cause a substantial variation in our operating results, resulting in a decrease
in the market price of our common stock and making period-to-period comparisons of our operating results less meaningful. 
 
We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from purchase
orders that exceed $1.0 million in value. Therefore, any significant cancellation or deferral of purchases of our products or the
return of previously purchased products could result in a substantial variation in our operating results in any particular
quarter due to the resulting decrease in revenue and gross margin. In addition, to the extent significant sales occur earlier than
expected, operating results for subsequent quarters may be adversely affected because our operating costs and expenses are based,
in part, on our expectations of future revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any
revenue shortfall. Because of these factors, in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public
market analysts and investors which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, these factors may make
period-to-period comparisons of our operating results less meaningful.
 


14
 

 
Due to the lengthy sales cycle involved in the sale of our
products, our quarterly results may vary and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. 
 
Digital video-on-demand, advertising, and content products and
services are relatively complex and their purchase generally involve a significant commitment of capital, with attendant delays
frequently associated with large capital expenditures and implementation procedures within an organization. Moreover, the purchase
of these products typically requires coordination and agreement among a potential customer’s corporate headquarters and its
regional and local operations. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with the purchase of our digital video-on-demand,
advertising, and content products and services is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks, including customers’
budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews, over which we have little or no control. Based upon all of the foregoing,
we believe that our quarterly revenues and operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future, that period-to-period
comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons should not be relied upon as
indications of future performance.
 
If there were a decline in demand or average selling prices
for our products, including our back office and advertising products, our revenues and operating results would be materially affected.

 
We expect our back office and advertising products to continue
to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Accordingly, a decline in demand or average selling prices for these products,
whether as a result of new product introductions by others, price competition, technological change, inability to enhance the products
in a timely fashion, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
If we are unable to manage our growth and the related expansion
in our operations effectively, our business may be harmed through a diminished ability to monitor and control effectively our operations,
and a decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees. 
 
Our ability to successfully offer new products and services
and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning and management. We are also continuing
to transition towards greater reliance on our software products and services for an increased portion of our total revenue, particularly
as we explore the divestiture of non-core business units as evidenced by our agreement to divest a portion of our broadcast servers
and storage business unit executed on March 21, 2012. In light of the growing complexities in managing our expanding portfolio
of products and services, our anticipated future operations may continue to strain our operational and administrative resources.
To manage future growth effectively, we must continue to improve our operational controls and internal controls over financial
reporting, and to integrate the businesses we have acquired and our new personnel and to manage our expanding international operations.
A failure to manage our growth may harm our business through a decreased ability to monitor and control effectively our operations,
and a decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees upon which our business is dependent.
 
Because our business is susceptible to risks associated with
international operations, we may not be able to maintain or increase international sales of our products and services, and we may
not realize the full amount of the anticipated savings in connection with our continued trend towards the manufacture and assembly
of our products outside of North America and Europe. 
 
Our international operations are expected to continue to account
for a significant portion of our business in the future. However, in the future we may be unable to maintain or increase international
sales of our products and services. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including:
 

·difficulties in establishing and managing international distribution
channels; 
 

·difficulties in selling, servicing and supporting overseas products
and services and in translating products and services into foreign languages;
 

·the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating
to the protection of intellectual property;
 

·multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures;
 

·negative tax consequences such as withholding taxes and employer payroll
taxes;
differences in labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire and retain employees; and
economic or political changes in international markets.
 


15
 

 
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates
that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. 
 
To date, most of our revenues have been denominated in U.S.
dollars, while a significant portion of our international expenses are incurred in the local currencies of countries in which we
operate. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign
currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse
impact on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers
of our products in those markets outside the United States where we often sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase
local currency operating costs. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, certain financial information is required to
be translated from foreign currencies to the United States dollar using either the spot rate or the weighted-average exchange rate.
If the United States dollar changes relative to applicable local currencies, there is a risk our reported sales, operating expenses,
and net income could significantly fluctuate. We are not able to predict the degree of exchange rate fluctuations, nor can we estimate
the effect any future fluctuations may have upon our future operations.
 
Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable
to protect our intellectual property rights from third-party challenges. 
 
Our success and ability to compete depends upon our ability
to protect our proprietary technology that is incorporated into our products. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark
and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Although we have issued patents,
we cannot assure that any additional patents will be issued or that the issued patents will not be invalidated. We also enter into
confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution
of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party
to copy or otherwise misappropriate and use our products or technology without authorization, particularly in foreign countries
where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may need to resort to litigation in
the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of
the proprietary rights of others. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed.
 
We have been and in the future could become subject to litigation
regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant legal costs
to defend our intellectual property rights. 
 
The industry in which we operate is characterized by vigorous
protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which on occasion, have resulted in significant and often
protracted litigation. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting
infringements on patent or other intellectual property rights covering our products or processes. We are currently engaged in intellectual
property litigation with Arris Group, Inc., and we may be a party to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property
rights or as a result of an allegation that we infringe others’ intellectual property. Any parties asserting that our products
infringe upon their proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves and possibly our customers or manufacturers against the
alleged infringement, as many of our commercial agreements require us to defend and/or indemnify the other party against intellectual
property infringement claims brought by a third party with respect to our products. We have received certain claims for indemnification
from customers but have not been made party to any litigation involving intellectual property infringement claims as a result.
These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of
our proprietary rights. This possibility of multiple damages serves to increase the incentive for plaintiffs to bring such litigation.
In addition, these lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert
management time and attention away from our operations. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover
potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, any potential
intellectual property litigation also could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using the products that use the infringed
intellectual property or obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant
technology, although this license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or redesign those products that use the
infringed intellectual property. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, our business may be seriously harmed.
 


16
 

 
If content providers, such as movie studios, limit the scope
of content licensed for use in the digital video-on-demand market, our business, financial condition and results of operations
could be negatively affected because the potential market for our products would be more limited than we currently believe and
have communicated to the financial markets. 
 
The success of the video-on-demand market is contingent on content
providers, such as movie studios, permitting their content to be licensed for use in this market. Content providers may, due to
concerns regarding either or both marketing and illegal duplication of the content, limit the extent to which they provide content
to the video-on-demand market. A limitation of content for the video-on-demand market would indirectly limit the market for our
video-on-demand system which is used in connection with that market.
 
Because we purchase certain material components used in manufacturing
our products from sole suppliers and we use a limited number of third party manufacturers to manufacture our products, our business,
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by a failure of these suppliers or manufacturers.

 
Certain key components of our products are currently purchased
from a sole supplier, including computer chassis, switching gear, an interface controller video transmission board, and operating
system and applications software. We have in the past experienced quality control problems, where products did not meet specifications
or were damaged in shipping, and delays in the receipt of these components. These problems were generally of short duration and
did not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. However, we may in the future experience similar
types of problems which could be more severe or more prolonged. While we believe that there are alternative suppliers available
for these components, we believe that the procurement of these components from alternative suppliers could take up to a year. In
addition, these alternative components may not be functionally equivalent or may be unavailable on a timely basis or on similar
terms. The inability to obtain sufficient key components as required, or to develop alternative sources if and as required in the
future, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on a limited number of third parties who manufacture certain
components used in our products. While to date there has been suitable third party manufacturing capacity readily available at
acceptable quality levels, in the future there may not be manufacturers that are able to meet our future volume or quality requirements
at a price that is favorable to us. Any financial, operational, production or quality assurance difficulties experienced by these
third party manufacturers that result in a reduction or interruption in supply to us could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses or distribution
rights for third-party technology at acceptable prices, or at all, our products could become obsolete or we may not be able to
deliver certain product offerings. 
 
We have incorporated third-party licensed technology into our
current products and our product lines. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties
to develop new products or product enhancements or to provide specific solutions. Third-party licenses may not be available or
continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses
required in our current products or to obtain any new third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements
or provide specific solutions could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at
greater cost. Such inabilities could delay or prevent us from making these products or enhancements or providing specific solutions,
which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products.
 
We may also incorporate open source software into our products.
Although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts,
and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions
on our ability to commercialize our products. We could also be subject to similar conditions or restrictions should there be any
changes in the licensing terms of the open source software incorporated into our products. In either event, we could be required
to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the
sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely or successful basis, any of which could adversely
affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
 


17
 

 
If we are unable to successfully compete in our marketplace,
our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. 
 
We currently compete against large companies offering video
software solutions. In the digital advertisement insertion market, we compete against suppliers of both analog tape-based and digital
systems. In addition, a number of well-funded companies have been discussing broadband internet VOD services for home television
viewing. If these products are developed, they may be more cost effective than our VOD solutions, which could result in cable system
operators and telecommunications companies discontinuing their purchases of our on-demand products. Due to the rapidly evolving
markets in which we compete, additional competitors with significant market presence and financial resources, including software
companies and television equipment manufacturers, may enter those markets, thereby further intensifying competition. Increased
competition could result in price reductions, cancellations of purchase orders, losses of business with current customers to competitors,
and loss of market share which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our
current and potential competitors have greater financial, selling and marketing, technical and other resources than we do. Moreover,
our competitors may also foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we. Although we believe that we have certain
technological and other advantages over our competitors, realizing and maintaining these advantages will require a continued high
level of investment by us in research and product development, marketing and customer service and support. In the future we may
not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments or to make the technological advances necessary to compete
successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, prospects,
financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected because of the difference in our operating results
from the assumptions on which our business model is based.
 
If we fail to respond to rapidly changing technologies related
to digital video, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected because the
competitive advantage of our products and services relative to those of our competitors would decrease. 
 
The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing
technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Future technological advances
in the television and video industries may result in the availability of new products or services that could compete with the solutions
provided by us or reduce the cost of existing products or services, any of which could enable our existing or potential customers
to fulfill their video needs better and more cost efficiently than with our products. Our future success will depend on our ability
to enhance our existing digital video products, including the development of new applications for our technology, and to develop
and introduce new products to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies. In the future, we may
not be successful in enhancing our digital video products or developing, manufacturing and marketing new products which satisfy
customer needs or achieve market acceptance. In addition, there may be services, products or technologies developed by others that
render our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete, or announcements of currently planned or other new
product offerings either by us or our competitors that cause customers to defer or fail to purchase our existing solutions.
 
Our financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected by the performance of the companies in which we have made and may in the future make equity investments.

 
We have made non-controlling equity investments in complementary
companies, including On Demand Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG and Minerva Networks, Inc., and we may in the future make additional
investments in these and/or other companies. These investments may require additional capital and may not generate the expected
rate of return that we believed possible at the time of making the investment. This may adversely affect our financial condition
or results of operations. Also, investments in development-stage companies may generate other than temporary declines in fair value
of our investment that would result in impairment charges.
 


18
 

 
We may not fully realize the benefits of our acquisitions
of Mobix Interactive Ltd., eventIS Group B.V or VividLogic, Inc., and these and future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate,
disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. 
 
As part of our business strategy, we have acquired and may in
the future seek to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our
business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions,
including our acquisitions of Mobix Interactive Ltd., eventIS Group B.V. and VividLogic, Inc. could create risks for us, including:
 

•difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel,
operations, technologies or products which may affect our ability to develop new products and services and compete in our rapidly
changing marketplace due to a resulting decrease in the quality of work and innovation of our employees upon which our business
is dependent;

 

•adverse effects on our existing business relationships
with suppliers and customers, which may be of particular importance to our business because we sell our products to a limited
number of large customers, we purchase certain components used in manufacturing our products from sole suppliers and we use a
limited number of third party manufacturers to manufacture our product; and

 

•our ability to retain and incentivize management and
key employees of the acquired business.

 
Future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect
our financial condition. 
 
Historically, we have acquired technology or businesses to supplement
and expand our product offerings. In the future, we could acquire additional products, technologies or businesses, or enter into
joint venture arrangements, for the purpose of complementing or expanding our business as occurred with VividLogic Inc. in fiscal
2011, eventIS Group B.V. in fiscal 2010, Mobix Interactive Ltd. in fiscal 2009 and On Demand Deutschland GMBH in fiscal 2007. As
previously announced, we are selling our broadcast servers and storage business unit and continue to evaluate the divestiture of
non-core operations as we focus on becoming a company that primarily provides software solutions. Negotiation of potential acquisitions,
divestitures or joint ventures and our integration or transfer of acquired or divested products, technologies or businesses could
divert management’s time and resources.
 
As part of our strategy for growth, we may continue to explore
acquisitions, divestitures, or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or may not be ultimately beneficial to us.
 
Acquisitions or divestitures may pose risks to our operations,
including:
 

•problems and increased costs in connection with the
integration or divestiture of the personnel, operations, technologies, or products of the acquired or divested businesses;

 

•unanticipated costs;

 

•diversion of management’s attention from our
core business;

 

•inability to make planned divestitures of businesses
on favorable terms in a timely manner or at all;

 

•adverse effects on business relationships with suppliers
and customers and those of the acquired company;

 

•acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technical
advancements or worse-than-expected performance by the acquired company;

 

•entering markets in which we have no, or limited,
prior experience; and

 

•potential loss of key employees.

 
In addition, in connection with any acquisitions
or investments we could:
 

•issue stock that would dilute our existing stockholders’
ownership percentages;

 

•incur debt and assume liabilities;

 

•obtain financing on unfavorable terms;

 

•incur amortization expenses related to acquired intangible
assets or incur large and immediate write-offs;

 

•incur large expenditures related to office closures
of the acquired companies, including costs relating to the termination of employees and facility and leasehold improvement charges
resulting from our having to vacate the acquired companies’ premises; and

 

•reduce the cash that would otherwise be available
to fund operations or for other purposes.

 


19
 

 
If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we
may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. 
 
Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may
not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change
in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines
in our stock price and market capitalization, or future cash flows projections. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment
requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly
competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results.
We may be required to record a significant noncash charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any
impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined.
 
We may experience risks in our investments due to changes
in the market, which could adversely affect the value or liquidity of our investments. 
 
We maintain a portfolio of marketable securities in a variety
of instruments which may include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds and government debt securities.
These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks. As a result, we may experience a reduction
in value or loss of liquidity of our investments. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative
adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
 
The success of our business model could be influenced by
changes in the regulatory environment, such as changes that either would limit capital expenditures by television, cable or telecommunications
operators or reverse the trend towards deregulation in the industries in which we compete. 
 
The telecommunications and television industries are subject
to extensive regulation which may limit the growth of our business, both in the United States and other countries. The growth of
our business internationally is dependent in part on deregulation of the telecommunications industry abroad similar to that which
has occurred in the United States and the timing and magnitude of which is uncertain. Broadband system operators are subject to
extensive government regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and other federal and state regulatory agencies. These
regulations could have the effect of limiting capital expenditures by broadband system operators and thus could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The enactment by federal, state or international
governments of new laws or regulations, changes in the interpretation of existing regulations or a reversal of the trend toward
deregulation in these industries could adversely affect our customers, and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial
condition and results of operations.
 
We may not be able to hire and retain highly skilled employees,
particularly which could affect our ability to compete effectively because our business is technology-based.
 
Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued
contributions of our key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We have recently experienced the turnover of our
Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part
upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, customer service, selling and marketing, finance,
administrative and manufacturing personnel, as our business is technology-based. Because competition for these personnel is intense,
we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of the key personnel,
the integration of new personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required
personnel, particularly software engineers and sales personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations because our business is technology-based.
 


20
 

 
We may have additional tax liabilities. 
 
We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the
ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
We are regularly under audit by various tax jurisdictions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination
of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.
The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the
period or periods for which that determination is made. In addition, we are subject to sales, use and similar taxes in many countries,
jurisdictions and provinces, including those states in the United States where we maintain a physical presence or have a substantial
nexus. These taxing regimes are complex. For example, in the United States, each state and local taxing authority has its own interpretation
of what constitutes a sufficient physical presence or nexus to require the collection and remittance of these taxes. Similarly,
each state and local taxing authority has its own rules regarding the applicability of sales tax by customer or product type.
 
System errors, failures, or interruptions could cause delays
in shipments, require design modifications or replacements which may have a negative impact on our business and damage our reputation
and customer relationships. 
 
System errors or failures in our products or related to our
information technology infrastructure may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite
our testing and testing by current and potential customers, not all errors or failures may be found in our products or, if discovered,
successfully corrected in a timely manner. Notwithstanding our efforts to the contrary, our products and business may be subject
to unauthorized access which could also result in errors or failures in our products, or the dissemination of confidential information.
These errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments, require design modifications that could adversely
affect our competitive position or result in material liability to us. Further, some errors may not be detected until the systems
are deployed. In such a case, we may have to undertake major replacement programs to correct the problem. Our reputation may also
suffer if our customers view our products as unreliable or our systems as unsecure, whether based on actual or perceived errors
or failures in our products or our systems. Further, a defect, error or performance problem with our on-demand systems could cause
our customers’ VOD offerings to fail for a period of time or be degraded. Any such failure would cause customer service and
public relations problems for our customers. As a result, any failure of our customers’ systems caused by our technology,
including the failure of third party technology incorporated therein or therewith, could result in delayed or lost revenue due
to adverse customer reaction, negative publicity regarding us and our products and services and claims for substantial damages
against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Any claim could be expensive and require us to spend a significant
amount of resources. In circumstances where third party technology incorporated with or in our systems includes a defect, error
or performance problem or fails for any reason, we may have to replace such third party technology at our expense and be responsible
to our customers for their corresponding claims. Such replacements or claims could be expensive and could require us to spend a
significant amount of resources.
 
We may be subject to network disruptions or security breaches
that could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results. 
 
We may be subject to network disruptions or security breaches
caused by computer viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, acts of vandalism by third parties or terrorism. Our security
measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent such security breaches. Any such compromise of
our information security could result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information,
cause an interruption in our operations, result in the unauthorized release of customer or employee data, result in a violation
of privacy or other laws, expose us to a risk of litigation or damage our reputation, which could harm our business and operating
results.
 
Our stock price may be volatile.
 
Historically, the market for technology stocks has been extremely
volatile. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial price volatility. The occurrence of any
one or more of the factors noted above could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. In the past couple of years,
the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price
and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These
broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual
operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities
class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies.
 


21
 

 
Any weaknesses identified in our system of internal controls
by us and our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have
an adverse effect on our business. 
 
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that
companies evaluate and report on their systems of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered
public accounting firm must report on its evaluation of those controls. In future periods, we may identify deficiencies, including
as a result of the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, in our system of internal controls over financial
reporting that may require remediation. There can be no assurances that any such future deficiencies identified may not be significant
deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in future periods.
 
Changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse
unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. 
 
A change in accounting policies can have a significant effect
on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements
and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing
rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes
could adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.
 
ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
 
None
 


22
 

 
ITEM 2. Properties
 


Location
 
Principal Use
 
Business Segment
 
Square Feet

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Owned Facilities
 
 
 
 
 
 

Acton, Massachusetts
 
Corporate Headquarters
 
Software and Servers
 
            120,000

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

London, United Kingdom
 
ODG corporate offices and video
 
Media Services
 
                9,000

 
 
content processing services
 
 
 
 

Leased Facilities
 
 
 
 
 
 

Manila, Philippines
 
Engineering and Customer Services
 
Software and Servers
 
              28,000

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Milpitas, California
 
Engineering
 
Software and Servers
 
              20,200

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Fort Washington, Pennsylvania
Engineering
 
Software and Servers
 
              14,000

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Eindhoven, The Netherlands
 
Engineering, Sales and Customer Services
 
Software and Servers
 
                6,300

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Held for sale
 
 
 
 
 
 

Greenville, New Hampshire
 
 
 
 
 
              24,000

 
In addition, we lease offices in Illinois,
Nevada, Ireland, Singapore, Germany, Japan, India, Turkey, UK, and Mexico. We believe that existing facilities are adequate to
meet our foreseeable requirements. Due to restructuring of the VOD server product lines and divesture of a portion of the broadcast
servers and storage business unit, we have determined to sell our Greenville, New Hampshire facility and have classified it as
an asset held for sale on our balance sheet.
 
ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 
 
ARRIS Litigation
 
On July 31, 2009, ARRIS Group, Inc. (“ARRIS”) filed
a contempt motion in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against SeaChange International relating to U.S. Patent
No 5,805,804 (the “804 patent”), a patent in which ARRIS has an ownership interest. In its motion, ARRIS is seeking
further patent royalties and the enforcement of the permanent injunction entered by the Court on April 6, 2006 against certain
SeaChange products. On August 3, 2009, SeaChange filed a complaint seeking a declaratory judgment from the Court that its products
do not infringe the ‘804 patent and asserting certain equitable defenses. On June 4, 2010, the Court entered an Order staying
the declaratory judgment action pending resolution of the contempt proceeding. On September 2, 2011, the Court entered an Order
in which it concluded that a contempt proceeding is the appropriate procedure for resolving the parties’ dispute and that
further factual and legal determinations would be necessary. On March 1, 2012, the Court conducted a hearing at which the parties
submitted additional information. No determinations were made by the Court at the hearing as to liability, and the parties are
now scheduled to submit post-hearing briefs. We believe that our products do not infringe on the ‘804 patent and that we
have meritorious defenses against the suit, however, the ultimate resolution of the matter is not reasonably estimable at this
time, but could result in a material liability for us.
 
We enter into agreements in the ordinary course of business
with customers, resellers, distributors, integrators and suppliers. Most of these agreements require us to defend and/or indemnify
the other party against intellectual property infringement claims brought by a third party with respect to our products. From time
to time, we also indemnify customers and business partners for damages, losses and liabilities they may suffer or incur relating
to personal injury, personal property damage, product liability, and environmental claims relating to the use of our products and
services or resulting from the acts or omissions of SeaChange, its employees, authorized agents or subcontractors. For example,
SeaChange has received requests from several of its customers for indemnification of patent litigation claims asserted by Acacia
Media Technologies, USA Video Technology Corporation, Multimedia Patent Trust, Microsoft Corporation, VTran Media Technologies
and ActiveVideo Networks, Inc. Management cannot reasonably estimate any potential losses, but these claims could result in material
liability for us.
 
ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
 
Not applicable
 


23
 

 
PART II
 
ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related
Stockholder Matters
 
Market
Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select
Market under the symbol “SEAC”. 
 
The following table sets forth the quarterly
high and low closing sales prices per share reported on NASDAQ for our last two fiscal years ended January 31, 2012 and 2011.
 


  
Fiscal Year 2012  
Fiscal Year 2011 

  
High  
Low  
High  
Low 

Three Month Period Ended: 
    
    
    
   

First Quarter 
$10.95  
$8.62  
$8.61  
$6.45 

Second Quarter 
 11.26  
 9.94  
 9.48  
 7.45 

Third Quarter 
 9.63  
 6.96  
 9.17  
 7.08 

Fourth Quarter 
 8.82  
 6.59  
 9.04  
 7.90 

 
On March 29, 2012, there were 119 holders of record.
 
We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common
stock, since inception, and do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend
to retain all of our future earnings for use in operations and to finance the expansion of our business.
 
On May 26, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase
of up to $20.0 million of its common stock, par value $.01 per share, through a share repurchase program. The repurchase program
terminated on January 31, 2012 and the Company did not repurchase any shares under this program for fiscal 2012 and purchased
178,000 shares at a cost of $1.4 million for fiscal 2011.
 
On March 28, 2012, our Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $25.0 million of its common stock, par value $.01 per share, through a share repurchase program.
The repurchase program terminates on January 31, 2013.
 
Information regarding equity plans appears in Part III, Item
12 of this annual report on Form 10-K.
 


24
 

 
STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH 
 
The following graph compares the change
in the cumulative total stockholder return on SeaChange’s common stock during the period from the close of trading on January
31, 2007 through January 31, 2012, with the cumulative total return on the Center for Research in Securities Prices (“CRSP”)
Index for the Nasdaq Stock Market (U.S. Companies) and a SIC Code Index based on SeaChange’s SIC Code. The comparison assumes
$100 was invested on January 31, 2007 in SeaChange’s common stock at the $10.00 closing price on January 31, 2007 and in
each of the foregoing indices and assumes reinvestment of dividends, if any.
 
The following graph is not “soliciting
material,” is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any filing of SeaChange under the
Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation
language in any such filing. The stock price performance shown on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future price
performance. Information used on the graph was obtained from a third party provider, a source believed to be reliable, but SeaChange
is not responsible for any errors or omissions in such information.
 
 
 
Notes:
 

A.The lines represent monthly index levels derived from
compounded daily returns that include all dividends.

  

B.If the monthly interval, based on the fiscal year-end,
is not a trading day, the preceding trading day is used.

  

C.The Index level for all series was set to 100 on January
31, 2007.

 


25
 

 
ITEM
6. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data of the Company has been derived from our audited
consolidated financial statements. The following selected financial data may not be representative of our future financial performance
and should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form
10-K. Prior periods results have been restated to reclassify discontinued operations activity to the line in the consolidated
statement of operations
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008 

  
(in thousands, except per share data) 

Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Revenues: 
    
    
    
    
   

Products 
$73,157  
$82,155  
$97,005  
$100,348  
$91,103 

Services 
 124,548  
 119,532  
 92,935  
 77,635  
 68,214 

Total revenues 
 197,705  
 201,687  
 189,940  
 177,983  
 159,317 

Costs of revenues: 
    
    
    
    
   

Products 
 22,774  
 30,256  
 35,929  
 35,478  
 37,619 

Services 
 76,919  
 68,576  
 54,941  
 47,348  
 42,817 

Total cost of revenue 
 99,693  
 98,832  
 90,870  
 82,826  
 80,436 

Gross profit 
 98,012  
 102,855  
 99,070  
 95,157  
 78,881 

Operating expenses: 
    
    
    
    
   

Research and development 
 40,692  
 44,569  
 45,104  
 37,482  
 35,026 

Selling and marketing 
 21,619  
 21,055  
 22,425  
 24,076  
 19,963 

General and administrative 
 24,116  
 23,647  
 20,823  
 20,064  
 19,160 

Amortization of intangibles 
 3,923  
 3,359  
 2,826  
 1,575  
 2,952 

Acquisition costs 
 3,312  
 764  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Restructuring 
 3,316  
 6,997  
 -  
 -  
 6,004 

Total operating expenses 
 96,978  
 100,391  
 91,178  
 83,197  
 83,105 

Income (loss) from operations 
 1,034  
 2,464  
 7,892  
 11,960  
 (4,224)

Interest income, net 
 297  
 269  
 607  
 2,050  
 1,927 

Other expense, net 
 (655) 
 (687) 
 (462) 
 (925) 
 (43)

Gain on sale of investment in affiliates 
 -  
 27,071  
 -  
 -  
 10,031 

Income before income taxes and equity income (loss) in
    earnings of affiliates 
 676  
 29,117  
 8,037  
 13,085  
 7,691 

Income tax expense (benefit) 
 2,193  
 (2,438) 
 271  
 525  
 2,106 

Equity income (loss) in earnings of affiliates, net of tax 
 233  
 85  
 (653) 
 (770) 
 1,143 

Net (loss) income from continuing operations 
 (1,284) 
 31,640  
 7,113  
 11,790  
 6,728 

Loss from discontinued operations 
 (2,730) 
 (2,172) 
 (5,790) 
 (1,816) 
 (3,826)

Net  (loss) income 
$(4,014) 
$29,468  
$1,323  
$9,974  
$2,902 

(Loss) earnings  per share: 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
$(0.13) 
$0.94  
$0.04  
$0.32  
$0.10 

Diluted 
$(0.13) 
$0.92  
$0.04  
$0.32  
$0.10 

(Loss) earnings per share from continuing operations: 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
$(0.04) 
$1.01  
$0.23  
$0.38  
$0.23 

Diluted 
$(0.04) 
$0.99  
$0.23  
$0.38  
$0.23 

(Loss) earnings per share from discontinued operations: 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
$(0.09) 
$(0.07) 
$(0.19) 
$(0.06) 
$(0.13)

Diluted 
$(0.09) 
$(0.07) 
$(0.19) 
$(0.06) 
$(0.13)

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data (as of January 31): 
    
    
    
    
   

Working capital 
$102,991  
$92,628  
$60,887  
$89,549  
$88,344 

Total assets 
 299,035  
 305,191  
 267,147  
 233,983  
 217,896 

Deferred revenue 
 36,473  
 40,643  
 44,554  
 29,396  
 16,185 

Long-term liabilities 
 21,569  
 27,057  
 15,808  
 3,745  
 3,391 

Total liabilities 
 88,097  
 96,049  
 89,225  
 61,747  
 52,494 

Total stockholders’ equity 
 210,938  
 209,142  
 177,922  
 172,236  
 165,402 

 


26
 

 
ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
 
The following discussion should be read
in conjunction with the other sections of this annual report on Form 10-K, including “Item 1: Business,” “Item 6:
Selected Financial Data” and “Item 8: Financial Statements.” Unless otherwise specified, any reference to
a “year” is to a year ended January 31. Additionally, when used in this Form 10-K, unless the context requires
otherwise, the terms “we”, “our”, “us” and “the Company” refer to SeaChange International,
Inc. and its subsidiaries. Certain statements contained in this MD&A and elsewhere in this report are forward-looking statements
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to future events or our future financial
performance. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “believe,” “expect,”
“intend,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “potential,”
“continue,” “estimate,” “plan,” or “anticipate,” or the negatives thereof, other
variations thereon or compatible terminology. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results
may differ materially from any forward-looking statement as a result of various factors, including those described in Item 1A
above under “Risk Factors.”
 
Servers and Storage Business Segment:
 
On March 21, 2012, we announced the signing of a definitive
asset sale agreement to sell a portion of our broadcast services and storage business unit, subject to customary and regulatory
approvals. The sale of these assets resulted from our evaluation that this business was no longer a strategic asset that we wished
to invest in as we focus our attention to growing into a pure play software company. We have retained certain lines of business
that were not included in this asset sale, including video streaming and related hardware, and have reclassified those revenues
and earnings into the software segment of our business as they constitute less than ten percent of our total revenues. Unless otherwise
indicated, references to the revenues and earnings throughout this MD&A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K refer to revenues from
continuing operations and do not include revenue and earnings from the discontinued operations as a result of this asset sale.
Similarly, discussion of other matters in our Consolidated Financial Statements refers to continuing operations unless otherwise
indicated. The results of the divested portion of our former servers and storage business segment are reported in discontinued
operations.
 
Overview 
 
We are a global leader in the delivery of multi-screen video.
Our products and services facilitate the aggregation, licensing, storage, management and distribution of video, television programming,
and advertising content to cable system operators, telecommunications companies and broadcast television companies.
 
On September 1, 2009, we completed
our acquisition of eventIS Group B.V. (“eventIS”). eventIS, based in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, provides video-on-demand
(“VOD”) and linear broadcast software and related services to cable television and telecommunications companies primarily
in Europe. We acquired eventIS to expand our VOD solutions into the European market. We have
made cash payments to date to the former shareholder of eventIS of $40.5 million and issued 227,041 of restricted common shares,
75,018 of which will vest in equal installments over three years beginning fiscal 2011 and 152,023 which will vest in equal installments
over three years beginning in fiscal 2012. We are obligated to make payments of approximately $137,000 in cash on each of September
1, 2012 and September 1, 2013 and an additional payment in an aggregate amount of $2.8 million with $1.7 million payable in cash
and $1.1 million payable by the issuance of restricted shares of our common stock on September 1, 2012. Under the earn-out provisions
of the share purchase agreement, a cash payment of $1.7 million for earnouts achieved in fiscal 2011 and 2012 will be paid in fiscal
2013. Additional earn-out payments may be earned in fiscal 2013 if certain performance goals are met, we will be obligated to make
additional cash payments to the former shareholders of eventIS. Acquisition costs related to this acquisition of approximately
$1.0 million, related primarily to legal, accounting, valuation and other professional services, were recognized in fiscal 2010.
These transactions costs were recorded and expensed in general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.

 
On February 1, 2010, we completed
our acquisition of VividLogic, Inc. (“VividLogic”). VividLogic is based in Fremont, California. Vividlogic provides
in-home infrastructure software for high definition televisions, home gateways, and set-top boxes to cable television service providers,
set-top box manufacturers and consumer electronics (CE) suppliers. We acquired Vividlogic to expand our home gateway solutions
product offerings. Under the purchase agreement we paid $21.5 million in cash at the closing of the transaction, paid an additional
$1.0 million in cash on February 1, 2012 and are obligated to make a future payment of $1.0 million on February 1, 2013. In addition,
under the share purchase agreement with the former shareholders of VividLogic, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 we will make
a cash earnout payment of $2.7 million for the earnout earned in fiscal 2012. Additional earn-out payments may be earned over fiscal
2013 if certain performance goals are met.
 


27
 

 
Our strategy is to grow our revenues with our installed customer
base and add potential new customers by continuing to invest and develop our new next generation software platforms for our back
office (Adrenalin), advertising (Infusion and AdPulse) and home gateway (Nucleus) product offerings, as our number one focus is
to provide superior service and cost-saving products to our customers. We will also continue to invest in technologies that will
help make us an industry leader in multi-screen video. In addition, we are reviewing all areas of our operating costs in order
to lower our cost structure and streamline operations in order to improve our profitability. We took actions both in fiscal 2012
and 2011 to lower our operating costs. In fiscal year 2012, we announced annualized savings of approximately $5.0 million primarily
related to the reduction in our marketing and sales staff and the elimination or reduction of certain senior executive positions.
In fiscal 2011, we eliminated approximately 110 employees, wrote down obsolete inventory and certain fixed assets. We are also
evaluating assets that are non-core to our desire to transform into a pure play software company. In that effort, we have signed
a definitive asset sale agreement on March 21, 2012 to divest a portion of our former broadcast servers and storage business unit.
We expect that sale to close in the near future once customary regulatory approvals are received. We will also look to continue
to acquire or invest in new technologies that expand our product offerings and ensure that they will be accretive to shareholder
value.
 
Operating Segment, Significant Customers and Geographic Information

 
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise
evaluated regularly by the Company’s senior management in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Following
the divestiture of the broadcast servers and storage product lines, the Software and VOD server product line was organized in one
business reporting segment. Reportable segments were determined based upon the nature of the products offered to customers, the
market characteristics of each operating segment and the Company’s management structure.
 
Our operations are now organized in the following two business
segments:
 

•Software segment – This segment includes product
revenues from our advertising, back-office including video streamers, and home gateway product solutions, related services such
as professional services, installation, training, project management, product maintenance, technical support and software development
for those software products.

 

•Media Services segment – This segment includes
the operations of the On Demand Group which include content acquisition and preparation services for television and wireless service
providers.

 
Under
this reporting structure, we further determined that there are significant functions, and therefore costs, that are considered
corporate expenses and are not allocated to the two reportable segments for the purposes of assessing performance and making operating
decisions. These unallocated costs include general and administrative expenses, other than direct general and administrative
expenses related to Media Services and Software, other income (expense), net, taxes and equity losses in earnings of affiliates,
which are managed separately at the corporate level. The basis of the assumptions for all such revenues, costs and expenses includes
significant judgments and estimations. There are no inter-segment revenues for the periods shown below. We do not separately track
all assets by operating segments nor are the segments evaluated under this criterion.
We have experienced fluctuations in our product revenues from quarter to quarter due to the timing of the receipt of customer orders,
the shipment of those orders, and, in certain cases, customer acceptance of products. The factors that impact the timing of the
receipt of customer orders include among other factors:
 

•the customer’s receipt of authorized signatures
on their purchase orders;

 

•the budgetary approvals within the customer’s
company for capital purchases; and

 

•the ability to process the purchase order within the
customer’s organization in a timely manner.

 
Factors
that may impact the shipment of customer orders include:
 

•the availability of material to produce the product;

 

•the time required to produce and test the product
before delivery; and

 

•the customer’s required delivery date.

 


28
 

 
In addition, many
customers may delay or reduce capital expenditures. This, together with other factors, could result in reductions in sales of our
products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, excess and obsolete inventory, gross margin deterioration,
slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition and supplier difficulties.
 
Our operating results are significantly
influenced by a number of factors, including the mix of products sold and services provided, pricing, costs of materials used in
our products and the expansion of our operations during the fiscal year. We price our products and services based upon our costs
and consideration of the prices of competitive products and services in the marketplace. The costs of our products primarily consist
of the costs of components and subassemblies that have generally declined from product introduction to product maturity. In the
current state of the economy, we currently expect that customers may still have limited capital spending budgets as we believe
they are dependent on advertising revenues to fund their capital equipment purchases. Accordingly, we expect our financial results
to vary from quarter to quarter, and our historical financial results are not necessarily indicative of future performance. In
light of the higher proportion of our international business, we expect movements in foreign exchange rates to have a greater impact
on our operating results and the equity section of our balance sheet in the future.
 
Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 Compared to the Fiscal
Year Ended January 31, 2011 
 
The following table sets forth summarized
consolidated financial information for each of the two fiscal years ended January 31, 2012 and 2011.
 


29
 

 


  
Year Ended 

  
January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(in thousands) 

Revenues: 
    
   

Products 
$73,157  
$82,155 

Services 
 124,548  
 119,532 

Total revenues 
 197,705  
 201,687 

Costs and expenses: 
    
   

Cost of product revenues 
 22,774  
 30,256 

Cost of service revenues 
 76,919  
 68,576 

Research and development 
 40,692  
 44,569 

Selling and marketing 
 21,619  
 21,055 

General and administrative 
 24,116  
 23,647 

Amortization of intangibles 
 3,923  
 3,359 

Acquisition costs 
 3,312  
 764 

Restructuring costs 
 3,316  
 6,997 

Income from operations 
 1,034  
 2,464 

Other expenses, net 
 (358) 
 (418)

Gain on sale of investment in affiliates 
 -  
 27,071 

Income before income taxes and equity income in earnings of affiliates 
 676  
 29,117 

Income tax expense (benefit) 
 2,193  
 (2,438)

Equity income in earnings of affiliates, net of tax 
 233  
 85 

(Loss) income from continuing operations 
 (1,284) 
 31,640 

(Loss) from discontinued operations 
 (2,730) 
 (2,172)

Net (loss) income 
$(4,014) 
$29,468 

 


30
 

 
Revenues 
 
The following table summarizes information
about the Company’s reportable segments for each of the two fiscal years ended January 31, 2012 and 2011.
 


  
Fiscal Year Ended  
  

  
January 31,  
  

  
2012  
2011  
% 

  
(in thousands, except for percentage data) 

Software Revenues: 
    
    
   

Products 
$73,157  
$82,155  
 (11.0%)

Services 
 91,635  
 91,501  
 0.1%

Total  revenues 
 164,792  
 173,656  
 (5.1%)

Cost of product revenues 
 22,774  
 30,256  
 (24.7%)

Cost of service revenues 
 48,861  
 45,335  
 7.8%

Total cost of  revenues 
 71,635  
 75,591  
 (5.2%)

Gross Margin 
$93,157  
$98,065  
 (5.0%)

Gross Margin percentage 
 56.5% 
 56.5% 
 0.1%

  
    
    
   

Media Services Revenue: 
    
    
   

Services 
$32,913  
$28,031  
 17.4%

Cost of services 
 28,058  
$23,241  
 20.7%

Gross Margin 
$4,855  
$4,790  
 1.4%

Gross Margin percentage 
 14.8% 
 17.1% 
 (2.3%)

 
Software
Product Revenue. In fiscal 2012, product revenue decreased approximately 11% to $73.1 million from $82.2 million
in the same period in the prior year. The $9.1 million decrease in product revenues compared to fiscal 2011 was due to decreased
shipments of VOD servers to North and South American customers of approximately $4.2 million. The decrease in product revenues
was also due to a portion of middleware revenues from Virgin Media that were recorded as service revenues during the year ended
January 31, 2012 totaling $4.7 million, while recorded entirely as product revenue in the prior year. In the prior year, the agreement
with Virgin Media provided for licensing rights and specified enhancements to the software and therefore the associated revenues
were classified as product revenues. However, the agreement in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 provided for software licensing
rights and software maintenance services, and was accordingly split between product and services revenues.
 
Software
Service Revenue. Service revenues were relatively flat compared to fiscal 2011. Service revenues increased $4.7
million due to the reclassification of a portion of middleware revenues from Virgin Media from product revenues to service revenues
as noted above, and we achieved higher services revenues from VividLogic. This increase was offset due to fiscal 2011 service revenues
having included $4.6 million of maintenance revenues resulting from a deactivation of VOD software and equipment by a U.S customer,
and our Comcast software subscription agreement extension being classified as services revenues for the period of February 2010
through May 2010.
 
Media
Services Revenue. Revenues from Media Services increased 17.4% to $32.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2012 compared
to $28.0 million for the year ended January 31, 2011. The increase in revenue was due primarily to increased content processing
revenues from a customer in France and Dubai and new customer contracts in South America signed this year partially offset by lower
revenues from Virgin Media.
 
For fiscal 2012 and 2011, two customers
each accounted for more than 10%, and collectively accounted for 31% and 36%, respectively, of our total revenues. Revenues from
these customers were primarily in the Software segment. We believe that a significant amount of our revenues will continue to be
derived from a limited number of customers
 
International products and services revenues
accounted for approximately 51% or $100.0 million and 46% or $93.0 million of total revenues in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.
We expect that international products and services revenues will remain a significant portion of our business in the future.
 


31
 

 
Software
Gross Margin. Costs of product revenues consist primarily of the cost of purchased material components and subassemblies,
labor and overhead relating to the final assembly and testing of complete systems and related expenses, and labor and overhead
costs related to software development contracts. Our software gross margin as a percentage of revenues was flat at 57% compared
to fiscal 2011. 
 
Media
Services Gross Margin. Our Media Services segment gross margin of 15% for fiscal 2012 was two percentage
points lower than the gross margin for fiscal 2011 due to higher headcount-related costs and increased content costs to support
new contracts for customers in Latin America and Eastern Europe.
 
Research
and Development. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of employee costs, which include salaries, benefits
and related payroll taxes, depreciation of development and test equipment and an allocation of related facility expenses. Research
and development expenses were 21% and 22% of total revenues for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, and decreased $3.9 million
from $44.6 million to $40.7 million year over year. The year over year decrease is primarily due to lower domestic headcount-related
costs primarily related to our VOD server and TV Navigator product lines.
 
Selling
and Marketing. Our selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of payroll costs, which include salaries and related
payroll taxes, benefits and commissions, travel expenses and certain promotional expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased
from $21.1 million, or approximately 10% of total revenues, in fiscal 2011 to $21.7 million, or approximately 11% of total revenues,
for fiscal 2012. The increase of approximately $600,000 was primarily due to an increase in eventIS headcount-related costs
and higher third-party commissions partially offset by lower domestic commission expense due to lower domestic revenues.
 
General
and Administrative. Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee costs, which include salaries
and related payroll taxes and benefit related costs, legal and accounting services, insurance and an allocation of related facilities
expenses. In fiscal 2012, general and administrative expenses of $24.1 million increased by approximately $0.5million from $23.6
million for the same period in 2011, and these expenses represented 12% of total revenues for both years. The increase is primarily
due to higher stock-based compensation relating to fourth quarter departure of senior executives and higher legal fees of
$1.7 million associated with patent ligation and the Company’s review of various strategic alternatives. These expenses were
partially offset by the absence of transaction costs totaling $1.6 million related to the VividLogic acquisition, which was included
in the prior year’s expenses. After an extensive review of strategic alternatives, the Company decided in November 2011 that
it was in the best interest of the shareholders to continue as a standalone public company and concluded this review. As described
in Item 1A “Risk Factors”, this evaluation of strategic alternatives has created uncertainty for our business.
 
Amortization of Intangibles.
Our amortization expense is primarily related to the costs of acquired intangible assets. Amortization is also based
on the future economic value of the related intangible assets which is generally higher in the earlier years of the assets’
lives. Total amortization expense of intangible assets was $5.4 and $5.9 million for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively.
Amortization expense charge to operating expenses increased from $3.4 million in fiscal 2011 to $3.9 million in fiscal 2012. An
additional $2.2 million and $2.0 million of amortization expense related to acquired technology was charged to cost of sales for
the years ended January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Acquisition-Related Costs.
Acquisition-related costs include changes in the fair value of acquisition related contingent consideration, and changes in
contingent liabilities related to estimated earn-out payments. During fiscal 2012, we revised our estimate of potential earn-out
payments to the former shareholders of VividLogic and eventIS and recorded an accrued expense of $3.3 million to reflect estimated
future financial performance compared to the respective earn-out criteria.
 
Restructuring. During
fiscal 2012, we incurred a restructuring charge of $3.3 million as we continue to take actions to lower our cost structure as we
strive to improve our financial performance and streamline our operations. Included in the restructuring charge are severance costs
of $2.8 million related to the termination of 33 employees, including the departure of the President and the retirement of the
Chief Executive Officer, the write-down of $430,000 of inventory relating to discontinued VOD server product lines and a $270,000
charge for the disposal of fixed assets relating to the New Hampshire facility.
 


32
 

 
Other expense, net. The
table below provides detail regarding our other income and expenses:
 


  
Fiscal Year ended 

  
January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(in thousands) 

Interest income 
$352  
$307 

Interest expense 
 (55) 
 (38)

Foreign exchange loss 
 (86) 
 (1,138)

Impairment expense 
 (684) 
 - 

Miscellaneous (expense) income 
 115  
 451 

  
$(358) 
$(418)

 
Foreign exchange loss.
The decrease in foreign exchange losses was a result of the change in exchange rates between the USD and foreign currencies
during fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011.
 
Impairment
expense: In fiscal 2012, impairment expense related to the write down to fair value of our New Hampshire
facility being held for sale.
 
Gain
from sale of investment in affiliates: During fiscal 2011, we recorded the gain on the sale
of the entire equity investments in Casa Systems of $25.2 million and InSite One of $1.9 million.
 
Income
Tax Provision. Our effective tax rate and income tax provision for fiscal 2012 was (324%) and $2.2 million expense
compared to an effective tax rate of 8% and a ($2.4 million) of tax benefit for fiscal 2011. The income tax expense for fiscal
2012 was primarily due to $1.0 million of state income taxes and income tax expense of $1.5 million at foreign subsidiaries in
the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Ireland.
 
At January 31, 2012 we provided a valuation allowance for the
full amount of the U.S. net deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of realization of those assets. We will continue to assess
the need for the valuation allowance at each balance sheet date based on all available evidence. If we determine that we can realize
some portion or all of the net deferred tax assets, the valuation allowance would be reversed and a corresponding increase in net
income would be recognized during the period.
 
We recognized tax benefits of $400,000 and $300,000 for fiscal
2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively, resulting from the expiration of the statute of limitations for uncertain tax positions. The
statute of limitations varies by the various jurisdictions in which we operate. In any given year, the statute of limitations in
certain jurisdictions may lapse without examination and any uncertain tax positions taken in these years will result in a reduction
of liability for unrecognized tax benefits for that year.
 


33
 

 
Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011 Compared to the Fiscal
Year Ended January 31, 2010 
 
The following table sets forth summarized
consolidated financial information for each of the two fiscal years ended January 31, 2011 and 2010.
 


  
Year Ended 

  
January 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

  
(in thousands) 

Revenues: 
    
   

Products 
$82,155  
$97,005 

Services 
 119,532  
 92,935 

Total revenues 
 201,687  
 189,940 

Costs and expenses: 
    
   

Cost of product revenues 
 30,256  
 35,929 

Cost of service revenues 
 68,576  
 54,941 

Research and development 
 44,569  
 45,104 

Selling and marketing 
 21,055  
 22,425 

General and administrative 
 23,647  
 20,823 

Amortization of intangibles 
 3,359  
 2,826 

Acquisition costs 
 764  
 - 

Restructuring costs 
 6,997  
 - 

Income from operations 
 2,464  
 7,892 

Other (expense) income, net 
 (418) 
 145 

Gain on sale of investment in affiliate 
 27,071  
 - 

Income before income taxes and equity income in earnings of affiliates 
 29,117  
 8,037 

Income tax (benefit) expense 
 (2,438) 
 271 

Equity income  (loss) in earnings of affiliates, net of tax 
 85  
 (653)

 Income from continuing operations 
 31,640  
 7,113 

(Loss) from discontinued operations 
 (2,172) 
 (5,790)

Net income 
$29,468  
$1,323 

 


34
 

 
Revenues 
 
The following table summarizes information
about the Company’s reportable segments for each of the two fiscal years ended January 31, 2011 and 2010.
 


  
Fiscal Year Ended  
  

  
January 31,  
  

  
2011  
2010  
% 

  
(in thousands, except for percentage data) 

Software revenues: 
    
    
   

Products 
$82,155  
$97,005  
 (15.3%)

Services 
 91,501  
 73,141  
 25.1%

Total Software revenues 
 173,656  
 170,146  
 2.1%

Cost of product revenues 
 30,256  
$35,929  
 (15.8%)

Cost of service revenues 
 45,335  
$38,431  
 18.0%

Total cost of  revenues 
$75,591  
$74,360  
 1.7%

Gross Margin 
$98,065  
$95,786  
 2.4%

Gross Margin percentage 
 56.5% 
 56.3% 
 0.2%

  
    
    
   

Media Services Revenue: 
    
    
   

Services 
$28,031  
$19,794  
 41.6%

Cost of services 
 23,241  
 16,510  
 40.8%

Gross Margin 
$4,790  
$3,284  
 45.9%

Gross Margin percentage 
 17.1% 
 16.6% 
 0.5.%

 
Software
Product Revenue. Our product revenue decreased 15% to $82.2 million in fiscal 2011 from $97.0 million in
fiscal 2010. The year over year decrease in product revenues was due to lower VOD software license revenues and lower shipments
of VOD servers to North American and Latin American service providers. The lower VOD software licenses revenues was due to the
Comcast software subscription agreement extension classification as services revenues for the period of February 2010 through May
2010. Unlike in prior periods, where software subscription agreements with Comcast provided for specified enhancements and therefore
were classified as product revenues, the agreement extensions contained no specified enhancements. The new software subscription
agreement signed with Comcast during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 was accounted for on a percentage of completion basis and
was recorded as product revenues starting on May 21, 2010 since the new subscription agreement provides for specific enhancements.
These decreases were partially offset by the inclusion of VividLogic product revenues and the inclusion of eventIS for a full year
of revenues, while fiscal 2010 included only five months of eventIS revenues.
 
Software
Service Revenue. Our service revenues increased 25% to $91.5 million in fiscal 2011 from $73.1 million in fiscal 2010.
The increase in service revenues year over year was due to the inclusion of a full year of service revenues from the acquisitions
of eventIS and VividLogic. In addition, fiscal 2011 service revenues included $4.6 million of maintenance revenues resulting from
a deactivation of VOD software and equipment by a U.S customer. The higher year over year service revenues also included the Comcast
software subscription agreement extension which was classified as services revenues for the period of February 2010 through May
2010, as noted above. These increases were partially offset by lower VOD professional services revenue due to lower VOD server
revenues.
 
For fiscal 2011 and 2010, two customers
each accounted for more than 10%, and collectively accounted for 36% and 41%, respectively, of our total revenues. International
products and services revenues accounted for approximately 46% or $93.0 million and 33% or $63.1 million of total revenues in fiscal
2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Media
Services Revenue. Revenues from Media Services increased 42% to $28.0 million in fiscal 2011 compared to $19.8 million
for fiscal 2010. The increase in revenue was due primarily to contract wins in Dubai and France in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2011 and increased content processing revenues from customers in Greece and Turkey.
 


35
 

 
Software Gross Margin.
Costs of product revenues consist primarily of the cost of purchased material components and subassemblies, labor and overhead
relating to the final assembly and testing of complete systems and related expenses, and labor and overhead costs related to software
development contracts. Our software gross margin as a percentage of revenues was flat at 56% in both fiscal 2011 and 2010
 
Media
Services Gross Margin. Media Services gross margin of 17% in fiscal 2011 was a half point higher than in fiscal
2010 due to cost savings related to bringing in-house all content processing that was completed in the second half of last
year offset by higher startup costs associated with new contract wins in South Africa and Serbia in the second half of fiscal 2011.
 
Research
and Development. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of employee costs, which include salaries, benefits
and related payroll taxes, depreciation of development and test equipment and an allocation of related facility expenses. Research
and development expenses were 22% and 24% of total revenues for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, and decreased approximately
$500,000 from $45.1 million to $44.6 million year over year. The decrease in this expense year over year was primarily due
to lower domestic headcount-related costs resulting from the our second and third quarter restructuring efforts offset by the inclusion
of a full years worth of costs associated with our eventIS acquisition and increased headcount costs in the Philippines.
 
Selling
and Marketing. Our selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of payroll costs, which include salaries and related
payroll taxes, benefits and commissions, travel expenses and certain promotional expenses. Selling and marketing expenses decreased
6% from $22.4 million or 12% of total revenues in fiscal 2010 to $21.1 million, or 10% of total revenues, in fiscal 2011. This
decrease in total expenses is primarily due to lower headcount related costs offset by the inclusion of a full year of costs
associated with our eventIS acquisition.
 
General
and Administrative. Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee costs, which include salaries
and related payroll taxes and benefit related costs, legal and accounting services and an allocation of related facilities expenses.
In fiscal 2011, general and administrative expenses of $23.6 million, or 12% of total revenues, increased $2.8 million from $20.8
million, or 11% of total revenues from fiscal 2010. General and administrative expenses increased primarily due to transaction
costs related to the VividLogic acquisition and higher legal and professional fees associated with ARRIS litigation that were partially
offset by lower corporate headcount-related costs.
 
Restructuring. During
fiscal 2011, we initiated actions to lower our cost structure in order to improve our financial performance. During fiscal 2011,
we incurred restructuring charges totaling $7.0 million including severance costs of $3.2 million for
the termination of approximately 110 employees, a write down of inventory of $2.5 million related to the decision to discontinue
certain VOD server products, and a $1.3 million charge for the disposal of fixed assets as a direct result of the restructuring
plan.
 
Amortization of Intangibles.
Our amortization expense is primarily related to the costs of acquired intangible assets. Total amortization of intangible
assets was $5.4 million and $3.4 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Amortization expense charged to operating expenses
increased to $3.4 million in fiscal 2011 from $2.8 million in fiscal 2010 primarily due to a full year’s impact of amortization
expense related to intangible assets acquired as part of our eventIS and VividLogic acquisitions. Amortization is also based on
the future economic value of the related intangible assets which is generally higher in the earlier years of the assets’
lives. An additional $2.0 million and $0.6 million of amortization expense related to acquired technology was charged to cost of
sales for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively
 


36
 

 
Other (expense) income, net.
The table below provides detail regarding our other income (expense):
 


  
Fiscal Year ended 

  
January 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

  
(in thousands) 

Interest income (expense), net 
$269  
$607 

Foreign exchange loss 
 (1,138) 
 (572)

Miscellaneous income 
 451  
 110 

  
$(418) 
$145 

 
Interest income and expense.
The decrease in interest income was primarily due to the lower prevailing interest rates earned on our marketable securities.
 
Foreign exchange (loss).
The increase in foreign exchange losses was a result of the change in exchange rates between U.S.Dollars and foreign currencies
during fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.
 
Acquisition related expenses.
For fiscal 2011, our acquisition expenses of $764,000 included $1.1 million in expense related to the write-off of an indemnified
asset resulting from the settlement of the California tax audit related to our VividLogic acquisition, that was partially offset
by a $870,000 gain resulting from an adjustment to acquisition related intangible assets for which the measurement period had ended
as well as changes to the contingent consideration for earn-outs to the former shareholders of eventIS and VividLogic. We incurred
no acquisition related expenses in fiscal 2010.
 
Gain
from sale of investment in affiliates. Our fiscal 2011 results reflect the gain on the sale of our
entire equity investments in Casa Systems of $25.2 million and InSite One of $1.9 million. We had no gain in fiscal 2010.
 
Equity Income/(Loss) in Earnings
of Affiliates. Equity income in earnings of affiliates was $85,000 in fiscal 2011 compared to a $653,000 in equity
loss in earnings of affiliates for fiscal 2010 due to On Demand Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG increased profitability as a result
of a large contract win in Austria and higher content processing in Germany. The equity income (loss) in earnings of affiliates
consists of our 50% ownership share of On Demand Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG, our German joint venture, under the equity method
of accounting.
 
Income Tax Provision.
Our effective tax rate and tax benefit for fiscal 2011 was 8% and $2.4 million, respectively, compared to an effective tax
rate and an income tax expense of 4% and $271,000, respectively, for fiscal 2010. The income tax benefit for fiscal 2011 was
primarily due to a reduction of a portion of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets due to our having met
the “more likely than not” realization criteria on its U.S. deferred tax assets resulting from the gain related
to our equity investment in Casa Systems, Inc. and the benefit of the reduction in deferred tax assets associated with the
deferred tax liabilities from the acquisition of VividLogic. Previously, we maintained a full valuation allowance. We also
recognized $300,000 of tax benefits resulting from the expiration of the statute of limitations for uncertain tax positions
and $1.0 million of tax benefits resulting from the settlement of a California audit by the former shareholders of
VividLogic. In addition, our subsidiary in the United Kingdom. recorded a tax benefit of $540,000 resulting from a successful
claim with the United Kingdom tax authorities for previously paid taxes from the transfer of intangible assets from the
United Kingdom to our German joint venture.
 
These tax benefits were offset by the tax
expense resulting from the gain on the sale of Casa Systems, Inc. and InSite One, Inc. equity and tax expense resulting from our
profitable operations in foreign tax jurisdictions.
 
In conjunction with the purchase price
allocation for the acquisition of VividLogic, we recorded a liability for uncertain tax position in the amount of $1.2 million.
We have reached a settlement with the State of California regarding the previously disclosed state tax audit and have recorded
a corresponding tax benefit of $1.0 million. In connection with the settlement of this matter, a $1.1 million indemnified asset
was also written-off and recorded as other expenses in the Statement of Operations.
 


37
 

 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
As part of our ongoing review of financial
information related to our business, we regularly use non-GAAP measures, in particular adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share, as
we believe they provide a meaningful insight into our business and trends. We also believe that these adjusted non-GAAP measures
provide readers of our financial statements with useful information and insight with respect to the results of our business. However,
the presentation of adjusted non-GAAP information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results
prepared in accordance with GAAP. Below are tables for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 which detail and reconcile GAAP and adjusted
non-GAAP earnings per share:
 
SeaChange International, Inc. 
Reconciliation of Selected GAAP Measures to Non-GAAP Measures - Unaudited 
(in thousands, other than per share amounts) 
 


  
Twelve months
    Ended  
Twelve months
    Ended  
Twelve months
    Ended 

  
January
    31, 2012  
January
    31, 2011  
January
    31, 2010 

  
GAAP  
Adjustment  
Non-GAAP  
GAAP  
Adjustment  
Non-GAAP  
GAAP  
Adjustment  
Non-GAAP 

Revenues 
$197,705  
    
$197,705  
$201,687  
    
$201,687  
$189,940  
$-  
$189,940 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Deferred revenue-acquisition
    related 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3,876  
 3,876  
 -  
 1,807  
 1,807 

Deferred
    revenue-maintenance acceleration 
 -  
 7  
 7  
 -  
 (4,559) 
 (4,559) 
 -  
 -  
 - 

  
 197,705  
 7  
 197,712  
 201,687  
 (683) 
 201,004  
 189,940  
 1,807  
 191,747 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Operating expenses: 
 96,978  
    
 96,978  
 100,391  
    
 100,391  
 91,178  
 -  
 91,178 

Stock-based compensation 
 -  
 2,869  
 2,869  
 -  
 2,720  
 2,720  
 -  
 3,105  
 3,105 

Amortization of intangible
    assets 
 -  
 6,081  
 6,081  
 -  
 5,345  
 5,345  
 -  
 3,465  
 3,465 

Acquisition related costs 
 -  
 3,312  
 3,312  
 -  
 1,595  
 1,595  
 -  
 1,413  
 1,413 

Restructuring 
 -  
 3,316  
 3,316  
 -  
 6,997  
 6,997  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Strategic
    alternatives related costs 
    
 1,762  
 1,762  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

  
 96,978  
 17,340  
 79,638  
 100,391  
 16,657  
 83,734  
 91,178  
 7,983  
 83,195 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Income from operations 
 1,034  
 17,347  
 18,381  
 2,464  
 15,974  
 18,438  
 7,892  
 9,790  
 17,682 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Gain from sale of investment
    in affiliates 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 27,071  
 (27,071) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Impairment from asset held
    for sale 
 (678) 
 678  
 -  
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Income tax impact expense
    (benefit) 
 2,193  
 385  
 2,578  
 (2,438) 
 4,865  
 2,427  
 371  
 3,106  
 3,477 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net (loss) income from continuing
    operations 
$(1,284) 
$17,640  
$16,356  
$31,640  
$(15,962) 
$15,678  
$7,113  
$6,684  
$13,797 

Net (loss) income from discontinued
    operations 
$(2,730) 
$1,127  
$(1,603) 
$(2,172) 
$237  
$(1,935) 
$(5,790) 
$125  
$(5,665)

Net (loss)
    income 
$(4,014) 
$18,767  
$14,753  
$29,468  
$(15,725) 
$13,743  
$1,323  
$6,809  
$8,132 

Diluted earnings per
    share 
$(0.13) 
$0.59  
$0.46  
$0.92  
$(0.49) 
$0.43  
$0.04  
$0.21  
$0.25 

Diluted
    income per share for continuing operations 
$(0.04) 
$0.55  
$0.51  
$0.99  
$(0.50) 
$0.49  
$0.23  
$0.21  
$0.44 

Diluted
    income per share for discontinued operations 
$(0.09) 
$0.04  
$(0.05) 
$(0.07) 
$0.01  
$(0.06) 
$(0.18) 
$0.00  
$(0.18)

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 
 32,093  
 32,093  
 32,093  
 31,986  
 31,986  
 31,986  
 31,433  
 31,433  
 31,433 

 
 
In managing and reviewing our business
performance, we exclude a number of items required by GAAP. Management believes that excluding these items mentioned below is useful
in understanding trends and managing our operations. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items
on our total operating expenses.
 
Deferred revenue acquisition related:
Business combination accounting rules require us to account for the fair value of customer contracts assumed in connection with
our acquisitions. In connection with our acquisitions of eventIS Group B.V. on September 1, 2009 and VividLogic Inc. on February
1, 2010, the book value of our deferred software revenue was reduced by approximately $5.7 million in the adjustment to fair value.
Because these customer contracts may take up to 18 months to complete, our GAAP revenues subsequent to these acquisitions do not
reflect the full amount of software revenues on assumed customer contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by eventIS Group
B.V. and VividLogic Inc. We believe this adjustment is useful to investors as a measure of the ongoing performance of our business
because we have historically experienced high renewal rates on similar customer contracts, although we cannot be certain that customers
will renew these contracts.
 
Deferred revenue-maintenance acceleration:
We recognized previously deferred maintenance revenue due to a termination by a customer of our maintenance obligation for certain
products previously purchased.
 
Stock-based compensation expenses:
We have excluded the effect of stock-based compensation and stock-based payroll expenses from our non-GAAP operating expenses and
net income measures. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees, we continue to evaluate our
business performance excluding stock-based compensation expenses. Stock-based compensation expenses will recur in future periods.
 


38
 

 
Amortization of intangible assets:
We have excluded the effect of amortization of intangible assets from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measures.
Amortization of intangibles is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our
acquisitions.
 
Restructuring: We incurred
charges due to the restructuring of our business including severance charges, write down of inventory to net realizable value,
and the disposal of fixed assets resulting from the restructuring, which we generally would not have otherwise incurred in the
periods presented as part of our continuing operations.
 
Acquisition related costs:
We incurred expenses in connection with our acquisition of eventIS Group B.V. and VividLogic Inc. during fiscal 2012, 2011,
and 2010 which would not have otherwise occurred in the periods presented as part of our operating expenses.
 
Impairment
expense: We incurred an impairment charge from the write-down of an asset held for sale.
 
Gain
from sale of investment in affiliates: Reflects the gain on the sale of the entire equity investments
in Casa Systems and InSite One.
 
Income
tax impact expense: The non-GAAP income tax adjustment reflects the effective income tax rate in which the
non-GAAP adjustment occurs and any exclusion of changes in the tax valuation allowance.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
Historically, we have financed our operations
and capital expenditures primarily with the proceeds from sales of our common stock and cash flows generated from operations. At
the end of fiscal 2012, our cash and marketable securities balance was $93.8 million, or a $7.6 million increase over the balance
at January 31, 2011. The increase was primarily related to cash generated from operations. Our working capital also increased $9.7
million to $102.3 million at January 31, 2012 from $92.6 million at January 31, 2011. We believe that existing funds combined with
available borrowings under our revolving line of credit and cash provided by future operating activities are adequate to satisfy
our working capital, potential acquisitions, capital expenditure requirements and other contractual obligations for the foreseeable
future, including at least the next 12 months. Given our cash and marketable securities and working capital balances, we believe
that repatriation of cash from outside the United States will not be a material factor for us.
 
In fiscal year 2012, we generated $14.4
million of cash from continuing operations. This cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of $24.9 million
in non cash expenses and accrued expenses providing $4.6 million. These amounts were offset by uses of cash including a net loss
of $1.4 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $2.6 million and deferred revenues of $4.0 million along with an increase in
accounts receivable of $2.0 million.
 
We used $8.6 million of cash in investing
activities primarily related to capital expenditures of $3.3 million and the payment of fixed consideration of $1.7 million to
the former shareholders of eventIS and $3.2 million of earnout payments to the former shareholders of VividLogic.
 
Our financing activities provided $1.8
million in cash primarily due to proceeds received from the issuance of common stock for the exercise of employee stock options.
 
Debt Instruments and Related Covenants 
 
The
Company maintains a revolving line of credit with RBS Citizens (a subsidiary of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc) for $20.0
million which expires on October 31, 2012. Loans made under this revolving line of credit bear interest at a rate per annum equal
to the bank’s prime rate. Borrowings under this line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. The
loan agreement requires us to comply with certain financial covenants. As
of January 31, 2012, we were in compliance with the financial covenants and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving
line of credit. 
 


39
 

 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
 
The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements
as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.
 
Contractual Obligations 
 
The following table reflects our current
and contingent contractual obligations to make potential future payments as of January 31, 2012 (in thousands):
 


  
Total  
Less than
 one year  
One to three years  
Three to
 five years  
Over five
 years 

  
(in thousands)  
  

Purchase obligations 
$3,037  
$3,037  
$-  
$-  
$- 

Non-cancelable lease obligations 
 5,620  
 2,222  
 2,830  
 568  
 - 

Studio content deals 
 13,301  
 8,346  
 4,955  
 -  
 - 

Contingent consideration 
 12,255  
 3,794  
 8,461  
 -  
 - 

Total 
$34,213  
$17,399  
$16,246  
$568  
$- 

 
The purchase obligations include open,
non-cancelable purchase commitments from our suppliers.
 
We have excluded from the table above uncertain
tax liabilities as defined by authoritative guidance due to the uncertainty of the amount and period of payment. As of January
31, 2012, we have gross unrecognized tax benefits of $6.5 million.
 
Under the share purchase agreement with
the former shareholder of eventIS on September 1, 2012, we are obligated to make an additional fixed payment in an aggregate amount
of $2.8 million with $1.7 million payable in cash and $1.1 million payable by the issuance of restricted shares of our common stock,
which will vest in equal installments over three years starting on the first anniversary of the date of issuance. Additionally,
we are obligated to make payments of approximately $137,000 in cash on each of September 1, 2012 and September 1, 2013. Under the
earn-out provisions of the share purchase agreement a cash payment of $1.7 million for earnouts earned in fiscal 2012 and 2011
will be paid in fiscal 2013. An additional earn-out payment may be earned for fiscal 2013 if certain performance goals are met.
 
We are obligate to make a payment of $1.0
million in cash on February 1, 2013 to the former shareholders of VividLogic. In addition, under the share purchase agreement with
the former shareholders of VividLogic, we will make cash earnout payment of $2.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Additional
earn-out payments may be earned for fiscal 2013 if certain performance goals are met.
 
We are occasionally required to post letters
of credit, issued by a financial institution, to secure certain sales contracts. Letters of credit generally authorize the financial
institution to make a payment to the beneficiary upon the satisfaction of a certain event or the failure to satisfy an obligation.
The letters of credit are generally posted for one-year terms and are usually automatically renewed upon maturity until such time
as we have satisfied the commitment secured by the letter of credit. We are obligated to reimburse the issuer only if the beneficiary
collects on the letter of credit. We believe that it is unlikely we will be required to fund a claim under our outstanding letters
of credit. As of January 31, 2012, the full amount of our outstanding letters of credit of $1.6 million was supported by our credit
facility.
 


40
 

 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The application of certain of these accounting principles is more
critical than others in gaining the understanding of the basis upon which our financial statements have been prepared. We consider
the following accounting policies to involve critical accounting estimates.
 
Principles of Consolidation 
 
We consolidate the financial statements of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries and all inter-company accounts are eliminated in consolidation. We also hold minority investments in the capital stock
of certain private companies having product offerings or customer relationships that have strategic importance. We evaluate our
equity and debt investments and other contractual relationships with affiliate companies in order to determine whether the guidelines
regarding the consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (“VIE”) should be applied in the financial statements. Consolidation
guidelines address consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that possess certain characteristics. A
VIE is defined as an entity in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do
not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support.
The primary beneficiary is required to consolidate the financial position and results of the VIE. We have concluded that we are
not the primary beneficiary for any variable interest entities as of January 31, 2012.
 
Our investments in affiliates include investments accounted
for under the cost method and the equity method of accounting. The investments that represent less than a 20% ownership interest
of the common shares of the affiliate are carried at cost. Under the equity method of accounting, which generally applies to investments
that represent 20% to 50% ownership of the common shares of the affiliate, our proportionate ownership share of the earnings or
losses of the affiliate are included in equity income (loss) in earnings of affiliates in the consolidated statement of operations.
 
We periodically review indicators of the fair value of our investments
in affiliates in order to assess whether available facts or circumstances, both internally and externally, may suggest an other-than-temporary
decline in the value of the investment. The carrying value of an investment in an affiliate may be affected by the affiliate’s
ability to obtain adequate funding and execute its business plans, general market conditions, industry considerations specific
to the affiliate’s business, and other factors. The inability of an affiliate to obtain future funding or successfully execute
its business plan could adversely affect our equity earnings of the affiliate in the periods affected by those events. Future adverse
changes in market conditions or poor operating results of the affiliates could result in equity losses or an inability to recover
the carrying value of the investments in affiliates that may not be reflected in an investment’s current carrying value,
thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future. We record an impairment charge when we believe an investment has
experienced a decline in value that is other-than-temporary.
 
Revenue Recognition  
 
Our transactions frequently involve the sales of hardware, software,
systems and services in multiple element arrangements. Revenues from sales of hardware, software and systems that do not require
significant modification or customization of the underlying software are recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to
the customer, there is evidence of an arrangement, fees are fixed or determinable and collection of the related receivable is considered
probable. Customers are billed for installation, training, project management and at least one year of product maintenance and
technical support at the time of the product sale. Revenue from these activities are deferred at the time of the product sale and
recognized ratably over the period these services are performed. Revenue from ongoing product maintenance and technical support
agreements are recognized ratably over the period of the related agreements. Revenue from software development contracts that include
significant modification or customization, including software product enhancements, is recognized based on the percentage of completion
contract accounting method using labor efforts expended in relation to estimates of total labor efforts to complete the contract.
Accounting for contract amendments and customer change orders are included in contract accounting when executed. Revenue from shipping
and handling costs and other out-of-pocket expenses reimbursed by customers are included in revenues and cost of revenues. Our
share of intercompany profits associated with sales and services provided to affiliated companies are eliminated in consolidation
in proportion to our equity ownership.
 


41
 

 
We have historically applied the software revenue recognition
rules as prescribed by Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Subtopic 985-605. In October 2009, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) Number 2009-14, “Certain Revenue Arrangements That
Include Software Elements,” which amended ASC Subtopic 985-605. This ASU removes tangible products containing software components
and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality from the scope of the
software revenue recognition rules. In the case of our hardware products with embedded software, we have determined that the hardware
and software components function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality, and therefore, the revenue from
the sale of these products no longer falls within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules. Revenue from the sale of
software-only products remains within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules. Maintenance and support, training, consulting,
and installation services no longer fall within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, except when they are sold
with and relate to a software-only product. Revenue recognition for products that no longer fall under the scope of the software
revenue recognition rules are similar to that for other tangible products and ASU Number 2009-13, “Multiple-Deliverable Revenue
Arrangements,” which amended ASC Topic 605 and was also issued in October 2009, which is applicable for multiple-deliverable
revenue arrangements. ASU 2009-13 allows companies to allocate revenue in a multiple-deliverable arrangement in a manner that better
reflects the transaction’s economics. ASU 2009-13 and 2009-14 are effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially
modified in our fiscal year 2012 and thereafter.
 
Under the software revenue recognition rules, the fee is allocated
to the various elements based on VSOE of fair value. Under this method, the total arrangement value is allocated first to undelivered
elements, based on their fair values, with the remainder being allocated to the delivered elements. Where fair value of undelivered
service elements has not been established, the total arrangement value is recognized over the period during which the services
are performed. The amounts allocated to undelivered elements, which may include project management, training, installation, maintenance
and technical support and certain hardware and software components, are based upon the price charged when these elements are sold
separately and unaccompanied by the other elements. The amount allocated to installation, training and project management revenue
is based upon standard hourly billing rates and the estimated time to complete the service. These services are not essential to
the functionality of systems as these services do not alter the equipment’s capabilities, are available from other vendors
and the systems are standard products. For multiple element arrangements that include software development with significant modification
or customization and systems sales where vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value does not exist for the undelivered
elements of the arrangement (other than maintenance and technical support), percentage of completion accounting is applied for
revenue recognition purposes to the entire arrangement with the exception of maintenance and technical support. All multiple-deliverable
revenue arrangements negotiated prior to February 1, 2011 and the sale of all software-only products and associated services have
been accounted for under this guidance.
 
Under the revenue recognition rules for tangible products as
amended by ASU 2009-13, the fee from a multiple-deliverable arrangement is allocated to each of the deliverables based upon their
relative selling prices as determined by a selling-price hierarchy. A deliverable in an arrangement qualifies as a separate unit
of accounting if the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis. A delivered item that does not qualify as
a separate unit of accounting is combined with the other undelivered items in the arrangement and revenue is recognized for those
combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The selling price used for each deliverable is based upon VSOE if available,
third-party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available, and best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE
are available. TPE is the price of the Company’s or any competitor’s largely interchangeable products or services in
stand-alone sales to similarly situated customers. BESP is the price at which we would sell the deliverable if it were sold regularly
on a stand-alone basis, considering market conditions and entity-specific factors. All multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements
negotiated after February 1, 2011, excluding the sale of all software-only products and associated services, have been accounted
for under this guidance.
 
The selling prices used in the relative selling price allocation
method for certain of our services are based upon VSOE. The selling prices used in the relative selling price allocation method
for third-party products from other vendors are based upon TPE. The selling prices used in the relative selling price allocation
method for our hardware products, software, subscriptions, and customized services for which VSOE does not exist are based upon
BESP. We do not believe TPE exists for these products and services because they are differentiated from competing products and
services in terms of functionality and performance and there are no competing products or services that are largely interchangeable.
Management establishes BESP with consideration for market conditions, such as the impact of competition and geographic considerations,
and entity-specific factors, such as the cost of the product, discounts provided and profit objectives. Management believes that
BESP is reflective of reasonable pricing of that deliverable as if priced on a stand-alone basis.
 


42
 

 
Since all of our revenue prior to the adoption of ASU 2009-14
fell within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules and we have only established VSOE for services and revenue in a
multiple-deliverable arrangement involving products, revenue was frequently deferred until the last item was delivered. The adoption
of ASU 2009-13 and 2009-14 has resulted in earlier revenue recognition in multiple-deliverable arrangements involving our hardware
products with embedded software because revenue can be recognized for each of these deliverables based upon their relative selling
prices as defined above. The revenue impact was an increase of $3.3 million during fiscal 2012.
 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 
We recognize revenue for products and services only in those
situations where collection from the customer is probable. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of customers’ financial
condition but generally do not require collateral. For some international customers, we may require an irrevocable letter of credit
to be issued by the customer before the purchase order is accepted. We monitor payments from customers and assess any collection
issues. We maintain allowances for specific doubtful accounts and other risk categories of accounts based on estimates of losses
resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and record these allowances as a charge to general and
administrative expenses. We base our allowances for doubtful accounts on historical collections and write-off experience, current
trends, credit assessments, and other analysis of specific customer situations. While such credit losses have historically been
within our expectations and the allowances established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit
loss rates that we have in the past. If the financial condition of our customers were to change, additional allowances may be required
or established allowances may be considered unnecessary. Judgment is required in making these determinations and our failure to
accurately estimate the losses for doubtful accounts and ensure that payments are received on a timely basis could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
Inventories and Reserves
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable
value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Inventories consist primarily of components and subassemblies
and finished products held for sale. All of our hardware components are purchased from outside vendors. The value of inventories
is reviewed quarterly to determine that the carrying value is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. We record charges
to reduce inventory to its net realizable value when impairment is identified through the quarterly review process. The obsolescence
evaluation is based upon assumptions and estimates about future demand and possible alternative uses and involves significant judgments.
For the year ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded $1.0 million, $3.0 million and $1.0 million in inventory write-downs,
respectively, of which $430,000 and $2.5 million were recorded in restructuring expense for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Accounting for Business Combinations 
 
In our business combinations, we are required to recognize the
assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual contingencies, and contingent consideration at their fair value on the acquisition
date. The purchase price allocation process requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at acquisition
date with respect to intangible assets, estimated contingent consideration payments and pre-acquisition contingencies. Although
we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical
experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired company and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical
estimates in accounting for acquisitions include but are not limited to:
 

•the estimated fair value of the acquisition-related
contingent consideration, which is calculated using a probability-weighted discounted cash flow model based upon the forecasted
achievement of post acquisition bookings targets;

 

•the future expected cash flows from product sales,
support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; and

 

•the relevant discount rates.

 

43
 

 
Unanticipated events and circumstances
may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Additionally, any change
in the fair value of the acquisition-related contingent consideration subsequent to the acquisition date, including changes from
events after the acquisition date, such as changes in our estimate of the bookings that are expected to be achieved, will be recognized
in earnings in the period of the estimated fair value change. A change in fair value of the acquisition-related contingent consideration
could have a material effect on the statement of operations and financial position in the period of the change in estimate.
 
Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets 
 
Acquired intangible assets result from
our various business acquisitions and certain licensed technologies, and consist of identifiable intangible assets, including completed
technology, licensing agreements, non-compete agreements and customer relationships. Acquired intangible assets are reported at
cost, net of accumulated amortization and are either amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives during
the period the economic benefits of the intangible asset are consumed or otherwise used up.
 
Goodwill is the amount by which the cost
of the acquired net assets in a business acquisition exceeded the fair values of the net identifiable assets on the date of purchase.
Goodwill is not amortized and is assessed for impairment at least annually, on a reporting unit basis, or more frequently when
events and circumstances occur indicating that the recorded goodwill may be impaired. We determine our reporting units by assessing
whether discrete financial information is available and if management regularly reviews the operating results of that component.
Following our annual assessment completed in fiscal 2012, we have determined that our reporting units are the same as our operating
segments, which consist of the Software and Media Services operating segments. We test goodwill for impairment by evaluating the
fair value of the reporting unit as compared to the book value. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the
implied fair value of goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of goodwill. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the
implied fair value, an impairment loss is recorded in an amount equal to that excess.
 
Software Development Costs 
 
We develop software for resale in markets
that are subject to rapid technological change, new product development and changing customer needs. The time period during which
software development costs can be capitalized from the point of reaching technological feasibility until the time of general product
release is very short, and consequently, the amounts that could be capitalized are not material to the Company’s financial
position or results of operations. Software development costs relating to sales of software requiring significant modification
or customization are charged to costs of product revenues.
 
We also purchase software for resale and capitalize those costs
associated with projects that meet technological feasibility. As of January 31, 2012, $737,000 of purchased software costs
was capitalized. Amortization expense is recorded over the period of economic consumption or the life of the agreement, whichever
results in the higher expense, starting with the first shipment of the product to a customer. Amortization
expense of capitalized software is recorded over the period of economic consumption or the life of the agreement, whichever results
in the higher expense, starting with the first shipment of the product to a customer. Amortization expense of capitalized software
was $361,000, $8,000 and $5,100 for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a result of the divestiture of a portion of broadcast
servers and storage business unit and our restructuring, in fiscal 2012 we recorded an impairment charge to restructuring expenses
of $138,000 for purchased software that will no longer be used. 
 
Long –Lived Assets 
 
We also evaluate property and equipment,
investments, intangible assets and other long-lived assets on a regular basis for the existence of facts or circumstances, both
internal and external, that may suggest an asset is not recoverable. If such circumstances exist, we evaluate the carrying value
of long-lived assets to determine if impairment exists based upon estimated undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining useful
life of the assets and compare that value to the carrying value of the assets. Our cash flow estimates contain management’s
best estimates, using appropriate and customary assumptions and projections at the time. Due to restructuring of the VOD server
product lines and divesture of a portion of the broadcast and servers product line, we determined we would vacate the facility
in New Hampshire and place the building for sale. As such, in fiscal 2012, we recorded a $678,000 impairment charge for the building
and a $270,000 impairment charge for equipment in New Hampshire included on the consolidated statement of operations.
 


44
 

 
Accounting for Income Taxes 
 
As part of the process of preparing our
financial statements, we are required to estimate our provision for income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure, including assessing the risks associated with tax audits, together
with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences
result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our balance sheet.
 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities
are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective income tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate
the weight of all available evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income
tax assets will not be realized. We will record a valuation allowance if the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax assets
in the future is reduced based on an evaluation of objective verifiable evidence. Significant management judgment is required in
determining our income tax provision, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our
deferred tax assets. We have established a valuation allowance against our United States deferred tax assets due to indications
that they may not be fully realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable is subject to change based on future
events, including generating sufficient pre-tax income in future periods. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates,
our provision for income taxes could be materially impacted. We do not provide for U.S. federal and state income taxes on the undistributed
earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely reinvested in the operations outside the U.S.
 
Authoritative guidance as it relates to
income tax liabilities states that the minimum threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial
statements is “more likely than not” (i.e., a likelihood of occurrence greater than fifty percent). The recognition
threshold is met when an entity concludes that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to
be sustained upon examination by the relevant taxing authority. Those tax positions failing to qualify for initial recognition
are recognized in the first interim period in which they meet the more likely than not standard, or are resolved through negotiation
or litigation with the taxing authority, or upon expiration of the statute of limitations. Derecognition of a tax position that
was previously recognized occurs when an entity subsequently determines that a tax position no longer meets the more likely than
not threshold of being sustained.
 
We file annual
income tax returns in multiple taxing jurisdictions around the world. A number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position
is audited and finally resolved. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular
uncertain tax position, we believe that our reserves for income taxes reflect the most likely outcome. We adjust these reserves
as well as the related interest and penalties, in light of changing facts and circumstances. If our estimate of tax liabilities
proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. If payment of these amounts ultimately
proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine
the liabilities are no longer necessary. The changes in estimate could have a material impact on our financial position and operating
results. In addition, settlement of any particular position could have a material and adverse effect on our cash flows and financial
position.
 


45
 

 
Share-based Compensation 
 
We account for all employee and non-employee
director stock-based compensation awards using the authoritative guidance regarding share based payments. We have continued to
use the Black-Scholes pricing model as the most appropriate method for determining the estimated fair value of all applicable awards.
Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards requires the input of
highly subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the share-based payment awards and stock price volatility. Management
estimated the volatility based on the historical volatility of our stock. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of
share-based payment awards represent management’s best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and
the application of management’s judgment. As a result, if circumstances change and we use different assumptions, our share-based
compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture
rate and only recognize expense for those shares expected to vest. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our
estimate, the share-based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period.
The estimated fair value of our stock-based options and performance-based restricted stock units, less expected forfeitures, is
amortized over the awards’ vesting period on a graded vesting basis, whereas the restricted stock units are amortized on
a straight line basis.
 
Foreign Currency Translation

 
For subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar
is designated as the functional currency of the entity, we translate that entity’s monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in local currencies into U.S. dollars (the functional and reporting currency) at current exchange rates, as of each balance sheet
date. Non-monetary assets (e.g., inventories, property, plant, and equipment and intangible assets) and related income statement
accounts (e.g., cost of sales, depreciation, amortization of intangible assets) are translated at historical exchange rates between
the functional currency (the U.S. dollar) and the local currency. Revenue and other expense items are translated using average
exchange rates during the fiscal period. Translation adjustments and transaction gains and losses on foreign currency transactions,
and any unrealized gains and losses on short-term inter-company transactions are included in other income or expense, net.
 
For subsidiaries where the local currency is designated as the
functional currency, we translate the subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars (the reporting currency) at
current exchange rates as of each balance sheet date. Revenue and expense items are translated using average exchange rates during
the period. Cumulative translation adjustments are presented as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Exchange gains
and losses on foreign currency transactions and unrealized gains and losses on short-term inter-company transactions are included
in other income or expense, net.
 
The aggregate foreign exchange transaction losses included as
other expense, net on the consolidated statement of operations was $86,000, $1.1 million and $572,000 for the years ended January
31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Effective
 
Other Comprehensive Income
 
The amendments in ASU 2011-05 revise the
manner in which companies present comprehensive income in their financial statements in order to make U.S. GAAP and international
standards more consistent. This ASU requires companies to report the components of comprehensive income in either a continuous
statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In the two-statement approach, the first statement
would present the components of net income, similar to the Company’s current Consolidated Statements of Operations, while
the second statement would include the components of other comprehensive income, as well as a cumulative total for comprehensive
income
 
In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
issued ASU 2011-12 to defer one provision of ASU 2011-05. The amendments in ASU 2011-12 defer the requirements under ASU 2011-05
to present reclassification adjustments by component in both the statement where net income is presented and the statement where
other comprehensive income is presented. This deferral was prompted by users’ concerns that the presentation requirements
would be costly to implement and could add unnecessary complexity to financial statements.
 


46
 

 
Neither of these ASU’s changes the items that must be
reported in other comprehensive income. Both Updates must be applied retrospectively beginning in the first quarter of 2012. Our
adoption date will be February 1, 2012, the beginning of our first quarter for fiscal 2013.
 
Fair Value Measurement
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued amended
guidance clarifying how to measure and disclose fair value. This guidance amends the application of the “highest and best
use” concept to be used only in the measurement of the fair value of nonfinancial assets, clarifies that the measurement
of the fair value of equity-classified financial instruments should be performed from the perspective of a market participant who
holds the instrument as an asset, clarifies that an entity that manages a group of financial assets and liabilities on the basis
of its net risk exposure to those risks can measure those financial instruments on the basis of its net exposure to those risks,
and clarifies when premiums and discounts should be taken into account when measuring fair value. The fair value disclosure requirements
also were amended. These provisions are effective for reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011 applied prospectively.
Early application is not permitted. We are currently reviewing what effect, if any, this new provision will have on our Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 
Goodwill Impairment Test
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued additional
guidance on goodwill impairment testing. This guidance permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether
it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining
whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. This guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill
impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. We anticipate that
it will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk 
 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 
 
We face exposure to financial market risks, including adverse
movements in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices
evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our foreign currency exchange exposure is primarily associated
with product sales arrangements or settlement of intercompany payables and receivables among subsidiaries and its parent company,
and/or investment/equity contingency considerations denominated in the local currency where the functional currency of the foreign
subsidiary is the U.S. dollar.
 
Substantially all of our international product sales are payable
in United States Dollars (USD) or in the case of our Media Services operations in the United Kingdom and eventIS in the Netherlands,
payable in local currencies, providing a natural hedge for receipts and local payments. In light of the high proportion of our
international businesses, we expect the risk of any adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates could have an impact on
our translated results within the Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, for the year ended January 31, 2012, we generated
a foreign currency translation loss of $872,000 which was recorded as accumulated other comprehensive gain increasing the equity
section of the balance sheet.
 
We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading
purposes and do not currently have outstanding derivative financial instruments related to payment obligations of the company.
While we do not anticipate that near-term changes in exchange rates will have a material impact on our operating results, financial
position and liquidity, a sudden and significant change in the value of foreign currencies could harm our operating results, financial
position and liquidity.
 
The U.S. Dollar is the functional currency for a majority of
our international subsidiaries. All foreign currency gains and losses are included in interest and other income, net, in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Operations. In fiscal year 2012, we recorded approximately $86,000 in losses due to international subsidiary
translations and $1.1 million in losses due to cash settlements of revenues and expenses.
 


47
 

 
Interest Rate Risk 
 
Exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates
primarily to our investment portfolio of marketable debt securities of various issuers, types and maturities and to our borrowings
under our bank line of credit facility. We do not use derivative instruments in our investment portfolio, and our investment portfolio
only includes highly liquid instruments. Our cash and marketable securities include cash equivalents, which we consider to be investments
purchased with original maturities of nine months or less. There is risk that losses could be incurred if we were to sell any of
its securities prior to stated maturity. Given the short maturities and investment grade quality of the portfolio holdings at January
31, 2012, a sharp rise in interest rates should not have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio.
Additionally, our long term marketable investments, which are carried at the lower of cost or market, have fixed interest rates,
and therefore are subject to changes in fair value. At January 31, 2012, we had $7.9 million in short-term marketable securities
and $4.1 million in long-term marketable securities.
 


48
 

 
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
 
INDEX TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 


 
Page

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
50

Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2012 and 2011
51

Consolidated Statement of Operations for the years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
52

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive
    Income (Loss) for the years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
53

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
54

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
55

 
Page

Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
94

 


49
 

 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of SeaChange International,
Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of SeaChange International, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of January 31,
2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss),
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2012. Our audits of the basic financial statements
included the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15 (a) (2). These financial statements
and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of SeaChange International, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of January 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended January 31, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of January 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and our report dated April 5, 2012 expressed an unqualified
opinion thereon.
 
 
 
Boston, Massachusetts

April 5, 2012
 


50
 

 
SEACHANGE INTERNATIONAL, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(in thousands, except share data)
 


  
January 31,  
January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

Assets 
    
   

Current assets: 
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$80,585  
$73,145 

Restricted cash 
 1,200  
 1,332 

Marketable securities 
 7,855  
 7,340 

Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts
    of $972 in 2012 and $995 in 2011, respectively 
 49,079  
 48,843 

Unbilled receivables 
 6,066  
 5,644 

Inventories, net 
 10,218  
 11,041 

Prepaid expenses and other current assets 
 8,695  
 6,956 

Assets held for sale 
 646  
 - 

Deferred tax assets 
 2,065  
 3,775 

Current assets related to discontinued operations 
 3,110  
 3,544 

Total current assets 
 169,519  
 161,620 

Property and equipment, net 
 30,566  
 34,858 

Marketable securities, long-term 
 4,140  
 4,379 

Investments in affiliates 
 3,013  
 2,913 

Intangible assets, net 
 23,761  
 30,306 

Goodwill 
 63,640  
 64,679 

Other assets 
 1,515  
 2,055 

Deferred tax assets, long-term 
 526  
 2,156 

Non-current assets related to discontinued operations 
 2,355  
 2,225 

Total assets 
$299,035  
$305,191 

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity 
    
   

Current liabilities: 
    
   

Accounts payable 
$9,362  
$11,249 

Other accrued expenses 
 19,271  
 16,528 

Customer deposits 
 3,067  
 3,993 

Deferred revenues 
 31,835  
 33,713 

Deferred tax liabilities 
 214  
 183 

Current liabilities related to discontinued operations 
 2,779  
 3,326 

Total current liabilities 
 66,528  
 68,992 

Deferred revenue, long-term 
 4,638  
 6,930 

Other liabilities, long-term 
 8,461  
 11,231 

Distribution and losses in excess of investment 
 743  
 1,161 

Taxes payable, long-term 
 3,043  
 3,013 

Deferred tax liabilities, long-term 
 4,684  
 4,722 

Total liabilities 
 88,097  
 96,049 

  
    
   

Commitments and contingencies (Note 10) 
    
   

  
    
   

Stockholders Equity: 
    
   

Common stock, $0.01 par value;100,000,000 shares
    authorized; 32,534,444 and 31,876,815 shares issued; 32,494,660 and 31,837,031 shares outstanding, respectively 
 326  
 319 

Additional paid-in capital 
 213,880  
 207,121 

Treasury stock, at cost 39,784 and 39,784 common shares, respectively 
 (1) 
 (1)

Accumulated income 
 6,507  
 10,521 

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
 (9,774) 
 (8,818)

Total stockholders’ equity 
 210,938  
 209,142 

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 
$299,035  
$305,191 

 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these consolidated financial statements.
 


51
 

 
SEACHANGE INTERNATIONAL, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except per share data)
 


  
Fiscal Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

Revenues: 
    
    
   

Products 
$73,157  
$82,155  
$97,005 

Services 
 124,548  
 119,532  
 92,935 

Total revenues 
 197,705  
 201,687  
 189,940 

Cost of revenues: 
    
    
   

Products 
 22,774  
 30,256  
 35,929 

Services 
 76,919  
 68,576  
 54,941 

Total cost of revenues 
 99,693  
 98,832  
 90,870 

Gross profit 
 98,012  
 102,855  
 99,070 

Operating expenses: 
    
    
   

Research and development 
 40,692  
 44,569  
 45,104 

Selling and marketing 
 21,619  
 21,055  
 22,425 

General and administrative 
 24,116  
 23,647  
 20,823 

Amortization of intangibles 
 3,923  
 3,359  
 2,826 

Acquisition costs 
 3,312  
 764  
 - 

Restructuring costs 
 3,316  
 6,997  
 - 

Total operating expenses 
 96,978  
 100,391  
 91,178 

Income from operations 
 1,034  
 2,464  
 7,892 

Interest income 
 352  
 307  
 763 

Interest expense 
 (55) 
 (38) 
 (156)

Other expense, net 
 (655) 
 (687) 
 (462)

Gain on sale of investment in affiliates 
 -  
 27,071  
 - 

Income before income taxes and equity income (loss) in earnings of
    affiliates 
 676  
 29,117  
 8,037 

Income tax expense (benefit) 
 2,193  
 (2,438) 
 271 

Equity income (loss) in earnings of affiliates, net of tax 
 233  
 85  
 (653)

(Loss) income from continuing operations 
 (1,284) 
 31,640  
 7,113 

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 (2,730) 
 (2,172) 
 (5,790)

Net (loss) income 
$(4,014) 
$29,468  
$1,323 

Earnings per share: 
    
    
   

Basic (loss) income per share 
$(0.13) 
$0.94  
$0.04 

Diluted (loss) income per share 
$(0.13) 
$0.92  
$0.04 

Earnings per share from continuing operations: 
    
    
   

Basic (loss) income per share 
$(0.04) 
$1.01  
$0.23 

Diluted (loss) income per share 
$(0.04) 
$0.99  
$0.23 

Loss per share from discontinued operations: 
    
    
   

Basic (loss) income per share 
$(0.09) 
$(0.07) 
$(0.19)

Diluted (loss) income per share 
$(0.09) 
$(0.07) 
$(0.19)

Weighted average common shares outstanding: 
    
    
   

Basic 
 32,093  
 31,434  
 30,860 

Diluted 
 32,093  
 31,986  
 31,433 

 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these consolidated financial statements.
 


52
 

 
SEACHANGE INTERNATIONAL, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
(in thousands, except per share data)
 


  
Common
    Stock  
   
   
Accumulated
    other comprehensive income(loss)  
Treasury Stock  
   
  

  
   
   
 Additional  
   
Cumulative  
Unrealized  
   
   
Total  
  

  
Number of  
Par  
paid-in   
Accumulated  
translation  
gain/loss on  
Number of  
   
Stockholders'  
Comprehensive 

  
shares  
value  
capital  
Deficit  
adjustment  
investments  
shares  
Amount  
Equity  
income
    (loss) 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Balance
    at January 31, 2009 
 31,822,838  
$318  
$206,411  
$(18,773) 
$(10,190) 
$459  
 (873,381) 
 (5,989) 
 172,236  
   

Issuance
    of common stock pursuant to exercise of stock options 
 47,805  
 1  
 483  
 -  
 -  
    
 -  
 -  
 484  
   

Issuance
    of common stock in connection with the employee stock purchase plan 
 282,889  
 3  
 1,510  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,513  
   

Issuance
    of common stock pursuant to vesting of restricted stock units 
 409,531  
 4  
 (4) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
   

Stock-based
    compensation expense 
 -  
 -  
 3,104  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3,104  
   

Purchase of treasury
    shares 
    
    
    
    
 -  
 -  
 (473,415) 
 (2,768) 
 (2,768) 
   

Change
    in fair value on marketable securities, net of tax 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (262) 
 -  
 -  
 (262) 
$(262)

Translation
    adjustment 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 2,292  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 2,292  
 2,292 

Net
    income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,323  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,323  
 1,323 

Comprehensive
    income 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
$3,353 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance
    at January 31, 2010 
 32,563,063  
 326  
 211,504  
 (17,450) 
 (7,898) 
 197  
 (1,346,796) 
 (8,757) 
 177,922  
   

Issuance
    of common stock pursuant to exercise of stock options 
 309,195  
 4  
 2,076  
 -  
 -  
    
 -  
 -  
 2,080  
   

Issuance
    of common stock in connection with the employee stock purchase plan 
 135,632  
 2  
 658  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 660  
   

Issuance
    of common stock pursuant to vesting of restricted stock units 
 353,542  
 2  
 (2) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
   

Stock-based
    compensation expense 
 -  
 -  
 1,564  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,564  
   

Purchase of treasury
    shares 
    
    
    
    
 -  
 -  
 (177,605) 
 (1,435) 
 (1,435) 
   

Retirement of shares 
 (1,484,617) 
 (15) 
 (8,679) 
 (1,497) 
    
    
 1,484,617  
 10,191  
    
   

Change
    in fair value on marketable securities, net of tax 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (77) 
 -  
 -  
 (77) 
$(77)

Translation
    adjustment 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (1,040) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (1,040) 
 (1,040)

Net
    income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 29,468  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 29,468  
 29,468 

Comprehensive
    income 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
$28,351 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance
    at January 31, 2011 
 31,876,815  
 319  
 207,121  
 10,521  
 (8,938) 
 120  
 (39,784) 
 (1) 
 209,142  
   

Issuance
    of common stock pursuant to exercise of stock options 
 253,668  
 3  
 1,784  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,787  
   

Issuance
    of common stock pursuant to vesting of restricted stock units 
 378,955  
 4  
 (4) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
   

Issuance
    of common stock pursuant to deferred consideration 
 25,006  
    
 204  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 204  
   

Liability
    stock compensation awards reclassified to equity 
    
    
 1,417  
    
    
    
    
    
 1,417  
   

Stock-based
    compensation expense 
    
    
 3,358  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3,358  
   

Change
    in fair value on marketable securities, net of tax 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (84) 
 -  
 -  
 (84) 
$(84)

Translation
    adjustment 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (872) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (872) 
 (872)

Net
    loss 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (4,014) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (4,014) 
 (4,014)

Comprehensive
    loss 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
$(4,970)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance
    at January 31, 2012 
 32,534,444  
$326  
$213,880  
$6,507  
$(9,810) 
$36  
$(39,784) 
$(1) 
$210,938  
   

 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these consolidated financial statements.
 


53
 

 

SEACHANGE INTERNATIONAL, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
   
   
  

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
  

Cash flows from operating activities: 
    
    
   

Net (loss) income 
$(4,014) 
$29,468  
$1,323 

Net loss income from discontinued operations 
 2,730  
 2,172  
 5,790 

Adjustments to reconcile net (loss)  income to net cash provided by operating activities: 
    
    
   

Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets 
 7,450  
 8,198  
 7,995 

Amortization of intangibles and capitalized software 
 6,081  
 5,345  
 3,461 

Loss on disposal of fixed assets 
 318  
 1,283  
 - 

Impairment of assets held for sale 
 678  
 -  
 - 

Loss on disposal of inventory 
 430  
 2,474  
 - 

Inventory valuation charge 
 575  
 556  
 585 

Provision for doubtful accounts receivable 
 100  
 2  
 75 

Discounts earned and amortization of premiums on marketable securities 
 66  
 62  
 110 

Equity loss (income) in earnings of affiliates 
 (234) 
 (65) 
 654 

Gain on sale of investment in affiliate 
 -  
 (27,071) 
 - 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 3,358  
 2,957  
 3,105 

Deferred income taxes 
 6,520  
 (7,074) 
 (1,210)

Change in contingent consideration related to acquisitions 
 3,031  
 -  
 - 

Excess tax benefit related to share based compensation expense 
 -  
 (4) 
 (159)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities: 
    
    
   

Accounts receivable 
 (1,965) 
 3,689  
 (4,380)

Unbilled receivables 
 (321) 
 (1,204) 
 654 

Inventories 
 (1,250) 
 (2,407) 
 (5,711)

Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 (3,647) 
 767  
 (3,836)

Accounts payable 
 (2,605) 
 664  
 (3,048)

Accrued expenses 
 4,555  
 3,442  
 (3,232)

Customer deposits 
 (926) 
 (286) 
 2,313 

Deferred revenues 
 (3,957) 
 (6,204) 
 9,240 

Other 
 255  
 63  
 23 

Net cash (used in) provided by discontinued operations 
 (2,843) 
 (546) 
 (5,153)

Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations 
 14,385  
 16,281  
 8,599 

Cash flows from investing activities: 
    
    
   

Purchases of property and equipment 
 (3,273) 
 (3,926) 
 (8,806)

Purchases of marketable securities 
 (19,944) 
 (8,382) 
 (43,402)

Proceeds from sale and maturity of marketable securities 
 19,517  
 7,325  
 54,091 

Acquisition of businesses and payment of contingent consideration, net of cash acquired 
 (4,935) 
 (14,661) 
 (35,019)

Investments in affiliates 
 -  
 (1,107) 
 (1,824)

Proceeds from sale of investment in affiliate 
 -  
 38,717  
 - 

(Deposit) release of restricted cash 
 132  
 (55) 
 1,512 

Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities of discontinued operations 
 (130) 
 154  
 451 

Net cash (used in) provided by  investing activities from continuing operations 
 (8,633) 
 18,065  
 (32,997)

Cash flows from financing activities: 
    
    
   

Purchase of treasury stock 
 -  
 (1,435) 
 (2,768)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock relating to the stock plans 
 1,787  
 2,740  
 1,838 

Excess tax benefit related to share based compensation expense 
 -  
 4  
 159 

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 
 1,787  
 1,309  
 (771)

Effect of exchange rates on cash 
 (99) 
 (157) 
 358 

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
 7,440  
 35,498  
 (24,811)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 
 73,145  
 37,647  
 62,458 

Cash and cash equivalents, end of period 
$80,585  
$73,145  
$37,647 

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: 
    
    
   

Income taxes paid 
$565  
$3,174  
$554 

Interest paid 
 -  
 -  
 41 

Supplemental disclosure of non-cash activities: 
    
    
   

Transfer of items originally classified as inventories to equipment 
 1,402  
 2,283  
 2,841 

 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part
of these consolidated financial statements.
 


54
 

 
SEACHANGE INTERNATIONAL, INC.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. Nature of Business
 
We are an industry leader in the delivery
of multi-screen video. Our products and services facilitate the aggregation, licensing, management and distribution of video, television
programming, and advertising content to cable system operators and telecommunications companies.
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies
 
Significant accounting policies followed
in the preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements are as follows:
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of these financial statements
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates these estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition,
valuation of inventory and accounts receivable, valuation of investments and income taxes, stock-based compensation, goodwill,
intangible assets and related amortization. Management bases these estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and
on various other assumptions that management believes are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future
events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results may differ
from management’s estimates.
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
We consolidate the financial statements
of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and all intercompany accounts are eliminated in consolidation. We also hold minority investments
in the capital stock of certain private companies having product offerings or customer relationships that have strategic importance.
We evaluate our equity and debt investments and other contractual relationships with affiliate companies in order to determine
whether the guidelines regarding the consolidation of variable interest entities (“VIE”) should be applied in the financial
statements. Consolidation guidelines address consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that possess certain
characteristics. A variable interest entity is defined as an entity in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of
a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support. We use qualitative analysis to determine whether or not we are the primary
beneficiary of a VIE (variable interest entity). We consider the rights and obligations conveyed by the implicit and explicit variable
interest in each VIE and the relationship of these with the variable interests held by other parties to determine whether its variable
interests will absorb a majority of a VIE’s expected losses, receive a majority of its expected residual returns, or both.
If we determine that our variable interests will absorb a majority of the VIE’s expected losses, receive a majority of their
expected residual returns, or both, we consolidate the VIE as the primary beneficiary, and if not, it is not consolidated.
 
We have reviewed
our interest in a joint venture in Germany, a partnership in Turkey and equity investment in Hightech ICT. BV. The primary
beneficiary is required to consolidate the financial position and results of the VIE. We have concluded that we are not the primary
beneficiary for any variable interest entities during fiscal 2012. Accordingly, we used the equity method
to account for these investments.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
We evaluated our decision
to sell the broadcast servers and storage business unit and determined that we met the criteria for classification as held for
sale as of January 31, 2012. We have recorded all assets and liabilities as held for sale and all operating results as discontinued
operations for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. (see Note 18)
 


55
 

 
 Equity Investments
 
Our investments in affiliates include investments
accounted for under the cost method and the equity method of accounting. The investments that represent less than a 20% ownership
interest of the common shares of the affiliate are carried at cost. Under the equity method of accounting, which generally applies
to investments that represent 20% to 50% ownership of the common shares of the affiliate, our proportionate ownership share of
the earnings or losses of the affiliate are included in equity income in earnings of affiliates in equity income (loss) in earnings
of affiliates in the consolidated statement of operations.
 
We periodically review indicators of the
fair value of our investments in affiliates in order to assess whether available facts or circumstances, both internally and externally,
may suggest an other than temporary decline in the value of the investment. The carrying value of an investment in an affiliate
may be affected by the affiliate’s ability to obtain adequate funding and execute its business plans, general market conditions,
industry considerations specific to the affiliate’s business, and other factors. The inability of an affiliate to obtain
future funding or successfully execute its business plan could adversely affect our equity earnings of the affiliate in the periods
affected by those events. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of the affiliates could result
in equity losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments in affiliates that may not be reflected in an
investment’s current carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future. We record an impairment
charge when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other-than-temporary.
 
Revenue
Recognition 
 
Our transactions frequently involve the sales of hardware, software,
systems and services in multiple element arrangements. Revenues from sales of hardware, software and systems that do not require
significant modification or customization of the underlying software are recognized when title and risk of loss has passed to the
customer, there is evidence of an arrangement, fees are fixed or determinable and collection of the related receivable is considered
probable. Customers are billed for installation, training, project management and at least one year of product maintenance and
technical support at the time of the product sale. Revenue from these activities are deferred at the time of the product sale and
recognized ratably over the period these services are performed. Revenue from ongoing product maintenance and technical support
agreements are recognized ratably over the period of the related agreements. Revenue from software development contracts that include
significant modification or customization, including software product enhancements, is recognized based on the percentage of completion
contract accounting method using labor efforts expended in relation to estimates of total labor efforts to complete the contract.
Accounting for contract amendments and customer change orders are included in contract accounting when executed. Revenue from shipping
and handling costs and other out-of-pocket expenses reimbursed by customers are included in revenues and cost of revenues. Our
share of intercompany profits associated with sales and services provided to affiliated companies are eliminated in consolidation
in proportion to our equity ownership
 
We have historically applied the software revenue recognition
rules as prescribed by Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Subtopic 985-605. In October 2009, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) Number 2009-14, “Certain Revenue Arrangements That
Include Software Elements,” which amended ASC Subtopic 985-605. This ASU removes tangible products containing software components
and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality from the scope of the
software revenue recognition rules. In the case of our hardware products with embedded software, we have determined that the hardware
and software components function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality, and therefore, the revenue from
the sale of these products no longer falls within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules. Revenue from the sale of
software-only products remains within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules. Maintenance and support, training, consulting,
and installation services no longer fall within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, except when they are sold
with and relate to a software-only product. Revenue recognition for products that no longer fall under the scope of the software
revenue recognition rules are similar to that for other tangible products and ASU Number 2009-13, “Multiple-Deliverable Revenue
Arrangements,” which amended ASC Topic 605 and was also issued in October 2009, which is applicable for multiple-deliverable
revenue arrangements. ASU 2009-13 allows companies to allocate revenue in a multiple-deliverable arrangement in a manner that better
reflects the transaction’s economics. ASU 2009-13 and 2009-14 are effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially
modified in our fiscal year 2012.
 


56
 

 
Under the software revenue recognition rules, the fee is allocated
to the various elements based on VSOE of fair value. Under this method, the total arrangement value is allocated first to undelivered
elements, based on their fair values, with the remainder being allocated to the delivered elements. Where fair value of undelivered
service elements has not been established, the total arrangement value is recognized over the period during which the services
are performed. The amounts allocated to undelivered elements, which may include project management, training, installation, maintenance
and technical support and certain hardware and software components, are based upon the price charged when these elements are sold
separately and unaccompanied by the other elements. The amount allocated to installation, training and project management revenue
is based upon standard hourly billing rates and the estimated time to complete the service. These services are not essential to
the functionality of systems as these services do not alter the equipment’s capabilities, are available from other vendors
and the systems are standard products. For multiple element arrangements that include software development with significant modification
or customization and systems sales where vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value does not exist for the undelivered
elements of the arrangement (other than maintenance and technical support), percentage of completion accounting is applied for
revenue recognition purposes to the entire arrangement with the exception of maintenance and technical support. All multiple-deliverable
revenue arrangements negotiated prior to February 1, 2011 and the sale of all software-only products and associated services have
been accounted for under this guidance.
 
Under the revenue recognition rules for tangible products as
amended by ASU 2009-13, the fee from a multiple-deliverable arrangement is allocated to each of the deliverables based upon their
relative selling prices as determined by a selling-price hierarchy. A deliverable in an arrangement qualifies as a separate unit
of accounting if the delivered item has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis. A delivered item that does not qualify as
a separate unit of accounting is combined with the other undelivered items in the arrangement and revenue is recognized for those
combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The selling price used for each deliverable is based upon VSOE if available,
third-party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available, and best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE
are available. TPE is the price of our or any competitor’s largely interchangeable products or services in stand-alone sales
to similarly situated customers. BESP is the price at which the Company would sell the deliverable if it were sold regularly on
a stand-alone basis, considering market conditions and entity-specific factors. All multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements negotiated
after February 1, 2011, excluding the sale of all software-only products and associated services, have been accounted for
under this guidance.
 
The selling prices used in the relative selling price allocation
method for certain of our services are based upon VSOE. The selling prices used in the relative selling price allocation method
for third-party products from other vendors are based upon TPE. The selling prices used in the relative selling price allocation
method for our hardware products, software, subscriptions, and customized services for which VSOE does not exist are based upon
BESP. We do not believe TPE exists for these products and services because they are differentiated from competing products and
services in terms of functionality and performance and there are no competing products or services that are largely interchangeable.
Management establishes BESP with consideration for market conditions, such as the impact of competition and geographic considerations,
and entity-specific factors, such as the cost of the product, discounts provided and profit objectives. Management believes that
BESP is reflective of reasonable pricing of that deliverable as if priced on a stand-alone basis.
 
Since all of our revenue prior to the adoption of ASU 2009-14
fell within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules and we have only established VSOE for services and revenue in a
multiple-deliverable arrangement involving products, revenue was frequently deferred until the last item was delivered. The adoption
of ASU 2009-13 and 2009-14 has resulted in earlier revenue recognition in multiple-deliverable arrangements involving our hardware
products with embedded software because revenue can be recognized for each of these deliverables based upon their relative selling
prices as defined above. The revenue impact, as a result of implementing the software revenue recognition guidance, was an increase
of $3.3 million during fiscal 2012.
 


57
 

 
Service revenue from content processing
provided to our customers is recognized when services are provided, based on contracted rates. Upfront fees received for services
are recognized ratably over the period earned, whichever is the longer of the contract term or the estimated customer relationship.
 
Any taxes assessed by a governmental authority
related to revenue-producing transactions (e.g. sales or value-added taxes) are reported on a net basis and excluded from revenues.
 
 Concentration
of Credit Risk and Major Customers
 
Financial instruments which potentially
expose us to concentrations of credit risk include cash equivalents, investments in treasury bills, certificates of deposits and
commercial paper, trade accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. We restrict our cash equivalents and investments
in marketable securities to repurchase agreements with major banks and U.S. government and corporate securities which are subject
to minimal credit and market risk.
 
For trade accounts receivable, we evaluate
customers’ financial condition, require advance payments from certain of our customers and maintain reserves for potential
credit losses. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of customers’ financial condition but generally do not require collateral.
For some international customers, we require an irrevocable letter of credit to be issued by the customer before the purchase order
is accepted. We monitor payments from customers and assess any collection issues. We maintain allowances for specific doubtful
accounts and other risk categories of accounts based on estimates of losses resulting from the inability of the Company’s
customers to make required payments and record these allowances as a charge to general and administrative expenses. We base our
allowances for doubtful accounts on historical collections and write-off experience, current trends, credit assessments, and other
analysis of specific customer situations. At January 31, 2012 and 2011, we had an allowance for doubtful accounts of $972,000 and
$995,000, respectively, to provide for potential credit losses. At January 31, 2012, two separate customers accounted for 16% and
14%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable balance. For fiscal 2012 and 2011, two customers each accounted for more than
10%, and collectively accounted for 31% and 34%, respectively, of our total revenues. Revenues from these customers were primarily
in our Software segment.
 
Cash
Equivalents and Marketable Securities
 
We account for investments in accordance
with authoritative guidance that defines investment classifications. We determine the appropriate classification of debt securities
at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation as of each balance sheet date. Our investment portfolio consists of money
market funds, corporate debt investments, asset-backed securities, government-sponsored enterprises, and state and municipal obligations.
All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents.
All cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale
and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders’ equity as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. The amortization of premiums and accretions of discounts to maturity are computed
under the effective interest method and are included in interest income. Interest on securities is recorded as earned and is also
included in interest income. Any realized gains or losses would be shown in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations
in other income or expense.
 
We evaluate our investments on a regular
basis to determine whether an other-than-temporary decline in fair value has occurred. This evaluation consists of a review of
several factors, including, but not limited to: the length of time and extent that an investment has been in an unrealized loss
position; the existence of an event that would impair the issuer's future earnings potential; and our intent and ability to hold
an investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. Declines in value below cost
for investments where it is considered probable that all contractual terms of the investment will be satisfied, is due primarily
to changes in interest rates, and where the company has the intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient
to allow a market recovery, are not assumed to be other-than-temporary. Any other-than-temporary declines in fair value are recorded
in earnings and a new cost basis for the investment is established.
 


58
 

 
Inventory
Valuation 
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of
cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Inventories consist primarily of
components and subassemblies and finished products held for sale. The values of inventories are reviewed quarterly to determine
that the carrying value is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. We record charges to reduce inventory to its net
realizable value when impairment is identified through a quarterly review process. The obsolescence evaluation is based upon assumptions
and estimates about future demand, or possible alternative uses and involves significant judgments. For the years ended January
31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded $1.0 million, $3.0 million and $569,000 in inventory write-downs, respectively, of which $430,000
and $2.5 million were recorded in restructuring expense for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Property
and Equipment
 
Property and equipment consists of land
and buildings, office and computer equipment, leasehold improvements, demonstration equipment, deployed assets and spare components
and assemblies used to service our installed base.
 
Demonstration equipment consists of systems
manufactured by us for use in marketing and selling activities. Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over
their estimated useful lives. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term
of the respective leases using the straight-line method. Deployed assets consist of movie systems owned and manufactured by us
that are installed in a hotel environment. Deployed assets are depreciated over the life of the related service agreements. Capitalized
service and spare components are depreciated over the estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Maintenance and repair
costs are expensed as incurred. Upon retirement or sale, the cost of the assets disposed of, and the related accumulated depreciation,
are removed from the accounts, and any resulting gain or loss is included in the determination of net income.
 
Goodwill
and Long-Lived Assets 
 
We recognize the excess of the purchase
price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired as goodwill. At the time of acquisition, goodwill
is assigned to the operating segment as the applicable reporting unit for the goodwill impairment review. Goodwill is not amortized,
but is evaluated for impairment, at the reporting unit level, annually in the third fiscal quarter. Goodwill of a reporting unit
also is tested for impairment on an interim basis in addition to the annual evaluation if an event occurs or circumstances change
such as declines in sales, earnings or cash flows, decline in the Company’s stock price, or material adverse changes in the
business climate, which would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The process
of evaluating goodwill for impairment requires several judgments and assumptions to be made to determine the fair value of the
reporting units, including the method used to determine fair value, discount rates, expected levels of cash flows, revenues and
earnings, and the selection of comparable companies used to develop market based assumptions.
 
We account for business acquisitions in
accordance with authoritative guidance which determines and records the fair values of assets acquired, liabilities, contractual
contingencies and contingent consideration assumed as of the dates of acquisition. The purchase price allocation process requires
management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets
and estimated contingent consideration payments.
 
We also evaluate property and equipment,
intangible assets and other long-lived assets on a regular basis for the existence of facts or circumstances, both internal and
external that may suggest an asset is not recoverable. If such circumstances exist, we evaluate the carrying value of long-lived
assets to determine if impairment exists based upon estimated undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining useful life of
the assets and compares that value to the carrying value of the assets. Our cash flow estimates contain management’s best
estimates, using appropriate and customary assumptions and projections at the time.
 


59
 

 
Intangible
assets consist of customer contracts, completed technology, in-process research and development, non-competition agreements, patents
and trademarks and are respectively assigned to the operating segments. The intangible assets are amortized to cost of sales and
operating expenses, as appropriate, on a straight-line or accelerated basis in order to reflect the period that the assets will
be consumed. In-process research and development assets as of the acquisition date are recorded as indefinite-lived intangible
assets and are subject to impairment testing at least annually. The useful life of the intangible asset recognized will be reconsidered
if and when an in-process research and development project is completed or abandoned.
 
We develop software for resale in markets
that are subject to rapid technological change, new product development and changing customer needs. The time period during which
software development costs can be capitalized from the point of reaching technological feasibility until the time of general product
release is very short, and consequently, the amounts that could be capitalized are not material to our financial position or results
of operations. Software development costs relating to sales of software requiring significant modification or customization are
charged to costs of product revenues.
 
Amortization expense is recorded over the
period of economic consumption or the life of the agreement, whichever results in the higher expense, starting with the first shipment
of the product to a customer. Amortization expense charged to cost of sales was $2.2 million, $2.0 million and $0.6 million for
fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Income
Taxes 
 
As part of the process of preparing our
financial statements, we are required to estimate our provision for income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure, including assessing the risks associated with tax audits, together
with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences
result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our balance sheet.
 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities
are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective income tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate
the weight of all available evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income
tax assets will not be realized. We will record a valuation allowance if the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax assets
in the future is reduced based on an evaluation of objective verifiable evidence. Significant management judgment is required in
determining our income tax provision, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our
deferred tax assets. We have established a valuation allowance against our United States deferred tax assets due to indications
that they may not be fully realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable is subject to change based on future
events, including generating sufficient pre-tax income in future periods. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates,
our provision for income taxes could be materially impacted. We do not provide for U.S. federal and state income taxes on the undistributed
earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely reinvested in the operations outside the U.S.
 
Authoritative guidance as it relates to
income tax liabilities states that the minimum threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial
statements is “more likely than not” (i.e., a likelihood of occurrence greater than fifty percent). The recognition
threshold is met when an entity concludes that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to
be sustained upon examination by the relevant taxing authority. Those tax positions failing to qualify for initial recognition
are recognized in the first interim period in which they meet the more likely than not standard, or are resolved through negotiation
or litigation with the taxing authority, or upon expiration of the statute of limitations. Derecognition of a tax position that
was previously recognized occurs when an entity subsequently determines that a tax position no longer meets the more likely than
not threshold of being sustained.
 
We file annual
income tax returns in multiple taxing jurisdictions around the world. A number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position
is audited and finally resolved. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular
uncertain tax position, we believe that our reserves for income taxes reflect the most likely outcome. We adjust these reserves
as well as the related interest and penalties, in light of changing facts and circumstances. If our estimate of tax liabilities
proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. If payment of these amounts ultimately
proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine
the liabilities are no longer necessary. The changes in estimate could have a material impact on our financial position and operating
results. In addition, settlement of any particular position could have a material and adverse effect on our cash flows and financial
position.
 


60
 

 
Share-based
Compensation.
 
We account for all employee and non-employee
director stock-based compensation awards using the authoritative guidance regarding share-based payments. We have continued to
use the Black-Scholes pricing model as the most appropriate method for determining the estimated fair value of all applicable awards.
Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards requires the input of
highly subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the share-based payment awards and stock price volatility. Management
estimated the volatility based on the historical volatility of our stock. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of
share-based payment awards represent management’s best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and
the application of management’s judgment. As a result, if circumstances change and we use different assumptions, our share-based
compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture
rate and only recognize expense for those shares expected to vest. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our
estimate, the share-based compensation expense could be significantly different from what it has recorded in the current period.
The estimated fair value of our stock-based options and performance-based restricted stock units, less expected forfeitures, is
amortized over the awards’ vesting period on a graded vesting basis, whereas the restricted stock units and Employee Stock
Purchase Plan stock units are amortized on a straight line basis.
 
Restructuring

 
We record restructuring charges consisting
of employee severance, write down of inventory, and the disposal of fixed assets. Restructuring charges represent our best estimate
of the associated liability at the date the charges are recognized. Adjustments for changes in assumptions are recorded as a component
of operating expenses in the period they become known. Differences between actual and expected charges and changes in assumptions
could have a material effect on our restructuring accrual as well as our consolidated results of operations.
 
Foreign
Currency Translation 
 
For subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar
is designated as the functional currency of the entity, we translate that entity’s monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in local currencies into U.S. dollars (the functional and reporting currency) at current exchange rates, as of each balance sheet
date. Non-monetary assets (e.g., inventories, property, plant, and equipment and intangible assets) and related income statement
accounts (e.g., cost of sales, depreciation, amortization of intangible assets) are translated at historical exchange rates between
the functional currency (the U.S. dollar) and the local currency. Revenue and other expense items are translated using average
exchange rates during the fiscal period. Translation adjustments and transactions gains and losses on foreign currency transactions,
and any unrealized gains and losses on short-term inter-company transactions are included in other income or expense, net.
 
For subsidiaries where the local currency
is designated as the functional currency, we translate our assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars (the reporting currency) at
current exchange rates as of each balance sheet date. Revenue and expense items are translated using average exchange rates during
the period. Cumulative translation adjustments are presented as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Exchange gains
and losses on foreign currency transactions and unrealized gains and losses on short-term inter-company transactions are included
in other income or expense, net.
 
The aggregate foreign exchange transaction
losses included as other expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations were $86,000, $1,100,000 and $572,000 for fiscal
2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 


61
 

 
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)
 
We present accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) and total comprehensive income (loss) in the Statement of Stockholders’ Equity. At the end of fiscal 2012,
our total comprehensive loss of $5.0 million consists primarily of net loss, cumulative translation adjustments and unrealized
gains and losses on marketable securities, net of income tax.
 
Forward
Exchange Contracts not Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
We may
enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts (“forward exchange contracts”) to manage our exposure to the
foreign currency exchange risk related to the fixed deferred purchase price associated with the acquisition of eventIS Group B.V.
The purpose of our foreign currency risk management program is to reduce volatility in earnings caused by exchange rate fluctuation.
We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We do not designate these forward exchange
contracts as hedging instruments, as such, they do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the foreign currency
forward contracts are recorded at fair value, with the gain or loss on these transactions recorded in the consolidated statements
of operations within “other expense, net” in the period in which they occur. As of January 31, 2012, we have no outstanding
foreign currency forward exchange contracts. We recorded approximately $0, $142,000 and $87,000 of losses related to its foreign
currency forward exchange contract during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our foreign currency forward exchange contract
is an over-the-counter instrument. There is an active market for these instruments, and therefore, they are classified as Level
1 in the fair value hierarchy.
 
 Advertising
Costs
 
Advertising costs are charged to expense
as incurred. Advertising costs were $374,000, $319,000 and $386,000 for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Earnings Per Share
 
Earnings per share are presented in accordance
with authoritative guidance which requires the presentation of “basic” earnings per share and “diluted”
earnings per share. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing earnings available to common shareholders by the weighted-average
shares of common stock outstanding during the period. For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the denominator
includes both the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and the weighted average number
of potential common stock, such as stock options, employee stock purchase plan, and restricted stock, calculated using the treasury
stock method.
 
For
fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively, 1.6 million, 2.5 million and 3.6 million of common shares issuable upon the exercise of
stock options are anti-dilutive and have been excluded from the diluted earnings per share computation as the exercise prices of
these common shares were above the market price of the common stock for the periods indicated. For fiscal 2012, an additional 1.0
million stock awards have been excluded from diluted earnings per share due the net loss.  Below
is a summary of the shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods indicated:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

Weighted average shares used in calculating earnings per
    share—Basic 
 32,093,125  
 31,434,398  
 30,860,194 

Dilutive common stock equivalents 
 -  
 551,404  
 573,174 

Weighted average shares used in calculating earnings per
    share—Diluted 
 32,093,125  
 31,985,802  
 31,433,368 

 


62
 

 
Impact of Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance 
 
Revenue Recognition for Arrangements
with Multiple Deliverables
 
In September 2009, the FASB amended
the guidance for revenue recognition in multiple-element arrangements. It has been amended to remove from the scope of industry
specific revenue accounting guidance for software and software related transactions, tangible products containing software components
and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality. The guidance now requires
an entity to provide updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables in an arrangement should be
separated, and the consideration allocated; and allocates revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of deliverables
for these products if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) or third-party evidence of
selling price. The guidance also eliminates the use of the residual method and requires an entity to allocate revenue using the
relative selling price method for these products. The accounting changes summarized are effective for fiscal years beginning on
or after June 15, 2010. We adopted the new guidance in the first quarter of 2011 on a prospective basis. (See Note 2).
 
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Effective
 
Other Comprehensive Income
 
The amendments in ASU 2011-05 revise the
manner in which companies present comprehensive income in their financial statements in order to make U.S. GAAP and international
standards more consistent. This ASU requires companies to report the components of comprehensive income in either a continuous
statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In the two-statement approach, the first statement
would present the components of net income, similar to the Company’s current Consolidated Statements of Operations, while
the second statement would include the components of other comprehensive income, as well as a cumulative total for comprehensive
income
 
In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
issued ASU 2011-12 to defer one provision of ASU 2011-05. The amendments in ASU 2011-12 defer the requirements under ASU 2011-05
to present reclassification adjustments by component in both the statement where net income is presented and the statement where
other comprehensive income is presented. This deferral was prompted by users’ concerns that the presentation requirements
would be costly to implement and could add unnecessary complexity to financial statements.
 
Neither of these ASU’s changes the items that must be
reported in other comprehensive income. Both Updates must be applied retrospectively beginning in the first quarter of 2012. Our
adoption date will be February 1, 2012, the beginning of our first quarter for fiscal 2013.
 
Fair Value Measurement
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued amended
guidance clarifying how to measure and disclose fair value. This guidance amends the application of the “highest and best
use” concept to be used only in the measurement of the fair value of nonfinancial assets, clarifies that the measurement
of the fair value of equity-classified financial instruments should be performed from the perspective of a market participant who
holds the instrument as an asset, clarifies that an entity that manages a group of financial assets and liabilities on the basis
of its net risk exposure to those risks can measure those financial instruments on the basis of its net exposure to those risks,
and clarifies when premiums and discounts should be taken into account when measuring fair value. The fair value disclosure requirements
also were amended. These provisions are effective for reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011 applied prospectively.
Early application is not permitted. We are currently reviewing what effect, if any, this new provision will have on our Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 
Goodwill Impairment Test
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued additional
guidance on goodwill impairment testing. This guidance permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether
it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining
whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. This guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill
impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. We anticipate the
adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 


63
 

 
3. Fair value of Assets and Liabilities

 
The applicable
accounting guidance establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands required disclosure about the fair value measurements
of assets and liabilities. This guidance requires us to classify and disclose assets and liabilities measured at fair value on
a recurring basis, as well as fair value measurements of assets and liabilities measured on a non-recurring basis in periods subsequent
to initial measurement, in a three-tier fair value hierarchy as described below.
 
The guidance defines fair value as the exchange price that would
be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability
in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Valuation techniques used to measure fair value
must maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The guidance describes three levels of
inputs that may be used to measure fair value:
 


 
 
 

 
•  
Level 1 — Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.

 
 
 

 
•  
Level 2 — Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. We primarily use broker quotes for valuation of our short-term investments.

 
 
 

 
•  
Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.

 
Our financial assets and liabilities that
are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of January 31, 2012 are as follows:
 


  
January 31,  
Fair Value Measurements Using 

  
2012  
Level 1  
Level 2  
Level 3 

  
   
(in thousands) 

Financial assets: 
    
    
    
   

Cash 
$74,226  
$74,226  
 -  
 - 

Cash equivalents 
 6,359  
 6,359  
 -  
 - 

Available for sale marketable securities: 
    
    
    
   

Current marketable securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agency issues 
 7,855  
 4,311  
 3,544  
 - 

Non-current marketable securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agency issues 
 4,140  
 2,111  
 2,029  
 - 

Total 
$92,580  
$87,007  
$5,573  
$- 

  
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Other liabilities: 
    
    
    
   

Acquisition-related consideration 
$12,255  
$-  
$-  
$12,255 

 


64
 

 
Our financial assets and liabilities that
are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of January 31, 2011 are as follows:
 


  
January 31,  
Fair Value Measurements Using 

  
2011  
Level 1  
Level 2  
Level 3 

  
   
(in thousands) 

Financial assets: 
    
    
    
   

Cash 
$66,539  
$66,539  
 -  
 - 

Cash equivalents 
 6,606  
 6,606  
 -  
 - 

Available for sale marketable securities: 
    
    
    
   

Current marketable securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agency issues 
 7,340  
 4,605  
 2,735  
 - 

Non-current marketable securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agency issues 
 4,379  
 3,358  
 1,021  
 - 

Total 
$84,864  
$81,108  
$3,756  
$- 

  
    
    
    
   

Other liabilities: 
    
    
    
   

Acquisition-related consideration 
$14,410  
$-  
$-  
$14,410 

 
The following tables set forth a reconciliation
of assets and liabilities in Level 1 and Level 2. There
have been no transfers between fair value measurement levels during the year ended January 31, 2012:
 


  
Level 1  
Level 2 

  
Marketable Securities  
Marketable Securities 

  
Year Ended January 31  
Year Ended January 31 

  
2012  
2012 

  
(in thousands) 

Beginning balance 
$7,963  
$3,756 

Purchases 
 18,368  
 4,068 

Sales and maturities 
 (19,751) 
 (2,251)

Amortization and unrealized losses 
 (158) 
 - 

Ending balance 
$6,422  
$5,573 

 
The following tables set forth a reconciliation
of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis with the use of significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):
 


  
Level 3 

  
Accrued Contingent 

  
Consideration 

  
Year Ended January 31 

  
2012 

  
(in thousands) 

Beginning balance 
$14,410 

Additional contingent earnout 
 3,326 

Contingency payments 
 (4,992)

Change in fair value 
 307 

Translation adjustment 
 (796)

Ending balance 
$12,255 

 


65
 

 
We rely on mark to market valuations to
record the fair value of our available for sale security assets which are measured under a Level 1 input. These assets are publicly
traded equity securities for which market prices are readily observable and recorded. At January 31, 2012, we had $7.9 million
in short-term marketable securities and $4.1 million in long-term marketable securities.
 
We determine the appropriate classification
of debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation as of each balance sheet date. Our investment portfolio
consists of money market funds, corporate debt investments, asset-backed securities, government-sponsored enterprises, and state
and municipal obligations. All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered
to be cash equivalents. All cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Our marketable securities are
classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders’
equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. The amortization of premiums and accretions of discounts
to maturity are computed under the effective interest method and is included in interest income. Interest on securities is recorded
as earned and is also included in interest income. Any realized gains or losses would be shown in the accompanying consolidated
statements of operations in other expense, net.
 
The following is a summary of available-for-sale
securities, including the cost basis, aggregate fair value and gross unrealized gains and losses, for cash equivalents, short-and
long-term marketable securities portfolio as of January 31, 2012 and 2011:
 


  
Amortized
 Cost  
Gross 
Unrealized Gains  
Gross
 Unrealized 
Losses  
Estimated 
Fair Value 

  
(in thousands) 

January 31, 2012: 
   
   
   
  

Cash 
$74,226  
$-  
$-  
$74,226 

Cash equivalents 
 6,359  
 -  
 -  
 6,359 

Cash and cash equivalents 
 80,585  
 -  
 -  
 80,585 

US government agency issues 
 6,781  
 68  
 -  
 6,849 

Corporate debt securities 
 1,000  
 6  
    
 1,006 

Marketable securities—short-term 
 7,781  
 74  
 -  
 7,855 

  
    
    
    
   

US government agency issues 
 4,126  
 14  
 -  
 4,140 

Corporate debt securities 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Marketable securities—long-term 
 4,126  
 14  
 -  
 4,140 

Total cash equivalents and marketable securities 
$92,492  
$88  
$-  
$92,580 

January 31, 2011: 
    
    
    
   

Cash 
$66,539  
$-  
$-  
$66,539 

Cash equivalents 
 6,606  
 -  
 -  
 6,606 

Cash and cash equivalents 
 73,145  
 -  
 -  
 73,145 

US government agency issues 
 7,245  
 95  
 -  
 7,340 

Marketable securities—short-term 
 7,245  
 95  
 -  
 7,340 

  
    
    
    
   

US government agency issues 
 4,308  
 71  
 -  
 4,379 

Corporate debt securities 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Marketable securities—long-term 
 4,308  
 71  
 -  
 4,379 

Total cash equivalents and marketable securities 
$84,698  
$166  
$-  
$84,864 

 
During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, available-for-sale
securities were sold for total proceeds of $0, $519,000, and $11.6 million, respectively. The gross realized gains and losses for
fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 were immaterial. For purposes of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of securities
sold is based on specific identification.
 


66
 

 
Contractual maturities of available-for-sale
debt securities at January 31, 2012 are as follows (in thousands):
 



  
Estimated 

  
Fair Value 

Maturity of one year or less 
$7,855 

Maturity between one and five years 
 4,140 

Total 
$11,995 

 
We
concluded that there were no other than temporary declines in investments recorded as of January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. The unrealized
holding (losses)/gains, net of tax, on available-for-sale securities in the amount of ($84,000), ($77,000) and $262,000 for the
years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, have been included in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income or loss.
 
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable
Securities 
 
Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily
of highly liquid investments in money market mutual funds, government sponsored enterprise obligations, treasury bills, commercial
paper and other money market securities with remaining maturities at date of purchase of 90 days or less. The fair value of cash,
cash equivalents and marketable securities at January 31, 2012 and 2011 was $93.8 million and $84.9 million, respectively,
and approximated fair value.
 
Restricted Cash 
 
Pursuant to certain lease agreements and
share purchase agreements, we are required to maintain cash reserves, classified as restricted cash. Current restricted cash totaled
$1.2 million and $1.3 million at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
 
We may enter into a foreign exchange forward
contract denominated in Euros to hedge against a portion of the foreign currency exchange risk associated with the acquisition
of eventIS Group B.V. for the fixed deferred purchase price. The purpose of our foreign currency risk management program is to
reduce volatility in earnings caused by exchange rate fluctuations. Authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all
of the derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets based
upon quoted market prices for comparable instruments. Our derivative instrument did not meet the criteria for hedge accounting
within authoritative guidance. Therefore, the foreign currency forward contracts have been recorded at fair value, with the gain
or loss on these transactions recorded in the consolidated statements of operations within “interest and other income, net”
in the period in which they occur. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. As of January
31, 2012, we had no outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts. During the year ended January 31, 2011, we recorded
approximately $142,000 of losses related to our foreign currency forward exchange contract. Typically, any losses or gains on the
forward exchange contracts are offset by re-measurement losses or gains on the underlying balances denominated in non-functional
currencies. Our foreign currency exchange contract is an over-the-counter instrument. 
 
Acquisition-Related Consideration

 
We determined the fair value of the acquisition-related
consideration in connection with the acquisition of eventIS Group B.V. in September 2009 using a probability-weighted discounted
cash flow model. This fair value measurement is based on significant inputs not observed in the market and thus represents a Level
3 measurement. Any change in the fair value of the acquisition-related consideration for the deferred fixed purchase price and
earnout payments subsequent to the acquisition date, including changes from events after the acquisition date, such as changes
in our estimate of the performance goals, will be recognized in earnings in the period the estimated fair value changes. The fair
value of the acquisition-related consideration to be distributed directly to the eventIS and VividLogic selling shareholders is
$12.3 million as of January 31, 2012.
 


67
 

 
4. Consolidated Balance Sheet Detail
 
Inventories consist of the following:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(in thousands) 

Components and assemblies 
$6,402  
$5,948 

Finished products 
 3,816  
 5,093 

Total inventories, net 
$10,218  
$11,041 

 
Property and equipment, net consist of
the following:
 


  
Estimated useful  
Year ended January 31, 

  
life (years)  
2012  
2011 

  
   
(in thousands) 

Land 
    
$3,989  
$4,285 

Buildings 
 20  
 11,426  
 13,586 

Office furniture and equipment 
 5  
 3,153  
 3,099 

Computer equipment, software and demonstration equipment 
 3  
 62,084  
 66,252 

Deployed assets 
 2-7  
 3,280  
 3,280 

Service and spare components 
 5  
 9,003  
 8,912 

Leasehold improvements 
 1-7  
 2,643  
 3,232 

Automobiles and trucks 
 5  
 211  
 211 

Assets not yet placed in service 
    
 366  
 298 

  
    
 96,155  
 103,155 

Less - Accumulated depreciation and amortization 
    
 (65,589) 
 (68,297)

Total property and equipment, net 
    
$30,566  
$34,858 

 
Depreciation and amortization expense of
fixed assets was $7.5 million, $8.2 million and $8.0 million for the years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Other accrued expenses consist of the following:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(in thousands) 

Accrued compensation and commissions 
$5,514  
$3,864 

Acquisition-related consideration 
 3,793  
 3,179 

Accrued content 
 4,374  
 3,818 

Employee benefits 
 852  
 668 

Accrued other 
 4,738  
 4,999 

Total other accrued expenses 
$19,271  
$16,528 

 
5.
Investments in Affiliates
 
We periodically review indicators of the
fair value of our investments in affiliate companies in order to assess whether available facts or circumstances, both internally
and externally, may suggest an other than temporary decline in the fair value of the investment. There were no indications of other
than temporary declines in the fair value of investments in affiliates as of January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our investments
in affiliates under the cost method of accounting are as follows:
 



  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(in thousands) 

Minerva 
 1,000  
 1,000 

Visible World 
 552  
 552 

Other investments 
 1,461  
 1,361 

Total investments in affiliates 
$3,013  
$2,913 

 


68
 

 
Minerva. We own 1.3 million shares
of preferred stock representing 2.8% of the total capital stock of Minerva Networks, Inc. (“Minerva”), a California
based company specializing in software products for the telecommunications and television markets. The preferred shares are convertible
to 1.3 million shares of common stock under certain conditions as defined in the Stock Purchase Agreement. We account for this
investment under the cost method of accounting.
 
Visible World. We own less than
5% of the common and preferred stock of Visible World and we account for this investment under the cost method of accounting. For
fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recognized revenues of approximately $11,000, $532,000 and $641,000 respectively, from Visible
World.
 
On
Demand Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG On February 27, 2007, the On Demand Group Limited (“ODG”), a wholly-owned
U.K. subsidiary of SeaChange, entered into an agreement with Tele-Munchen Fernseh GmbH & Co. Produktionsgesellschaft (TMG)
to create a joint venture named On Demand Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG. On Demand Deutschland specializes in establishing
on-demand and pay-per-view services on multiple platforms in German-speaking Europe. ODG contributed $2.8 million to acquire its
50% ownership interest in the joint venture of which $2.6 million consisted of the fair value of customer contracts and content
license agreements contributed by ODG and $154,000 represented a cash contribution. The customer contracts and licensed content
had no book value. We determined that this investment is an operating joint venture and does not require consolidation. Consequently,
we account for this investment under the equity method of accounting.
 
ODG entered into a Service Agreement with
the joint venture whereby ODG provides content aggregation, distribution, marketing and administration services to the joint venture
under an arm’s length fee structure. For the years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, ODG recorded revenues of $1.8 million,
$1.9 million, and $1.8, respectively, related to the Service Agreement. ODG’s share of profits from this agreement in proportion
to its equity ownership interest is eliminated in consolidation.
 
ODG recorded its proportionate share of
the joint venture’s losses of $487,000, $36,000 and $653,000 for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Due to the capital
distribution and ODG’s share of the joint venture’s net loss exceeding the book value of its investment in the joint
venture, the investment is recorded as a long-term liability of $743,000 and $1.2 million at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
Casa
Systems. On April 26, 2010, we sold our entire equity investment in Casa Systems, Inc., a Massachusetts based company
that specializes in video-on-demand products for the telecommunications and television markets, for $34.1 million realizing a pre-tax
profit of $25.2 million.
 
InSite One. In the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2011, we sold our entire equity investment in InSite One for $4.6 million in cash realizing a pre-tax profit of $1.9
million.
 
6. Acquisitions 
 
eventIS Group B.V.
 
On September 1, 2009, we acquired
the entire share capital of eventIS Group B.V. (“eventIS”) based in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, which provides video-on-demand
and linear broadcast software and related services to cable television and telecommunications companies primarily in Europe.
The results of eventIS’s operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date.
We acquired eventIS to expand our VOD solutions into the European market.
 


69
 

 
Fair Value of Consideration Transferred 
 
We have made
cash payments to the former shareholder of eventIS under the eventIS Share Purchase Agreement of $40.5 million in accordance with
the eventIS Share Purchase Agreement.
 
On September 1, 2010, we paid approximately
$1.8 million and issued 75,018 shares (approximate value $615,000) of restricted stock that will vest annually over three years.
The former shareholders of eventIS elected to receive the balance of the restricted stock consideration due in cash and approximately
$273,000 remains to be paid, which will be paid out in equal installments on September 1, 2012 and 2013. We are obligated to make
an additional fixed payment on September 1, 2012 in an aggregate amount of $2.8 million with $1.7 million payable in cash and $1.1
million payable by the issuance of restricted shares of our common stock, which will vest in equal installments over three years
starting on the first anniversary of the date of issuance. Under the earn-out provisions of the share purchase agreement, a cash
payment of $1.7 million for earnouts achieved in fiscal 2011 and 2012 will be paid in fiscal 2013. Additional earn-out payments
may be earned in fiscal 2013 if certain performance goals are met.
 
VividLogic, Inc.
 
On February 1, 2010, we completed
our acquisition of VividLogic, Inc. (“VividLogic”). VividLogic, based in Fremont, California provides in-home infrastructure
software for high definition televisions, home gateway, and set-top boxes to cable television service providers, set-top box manufacturers
and consumer electronics (CE) suppliers. We acquired VividLogic to expand our in-home solutions.
The results of VividLogic’s operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements since the acquisition
date.
 
Fair Value of Consideration Transferred

 
As of January 31, 2012, we had made cash
payments totaling $18.5 million to the former shareholders of VividLogic. We are obligated to make additional fixed payments of
$1.0 million in cash on February 1, 2012 and 2013. In addition, under the share purchase agreement with the former shareholders
of VividLogic, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 we will make a cash earnout payment of $2.7 million for the earnout earned in
fiscal 2012. Additional earn-out payments may be earned over fiscal 2013 if certain performance goals are met.
 
Allocation of Consideration Transferred

 
The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed in the VividLogic acquisition were recognized and measured as of the acquisition date, February 1, 2010, based on their
estimated fair values. The excess of the acquisition date fair value of consideration transferred over the estimated fair value
of the net tangible assets and intangible assets acquired was recorded as goodwill.
 


70
 

 
The following table summarizes the estimated
fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the VividLogic acquisition date.
 


  
February 1, 2010 

  
(in thousands) 

  
  

Payment of cash to VividLogic shareholders 
$15,470 

Acquisition-related deferred consideration 
 8,388 

Total acquisition-date fair value 
$23,858 

  
   

  
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$5,932 

Accounts receivable 
 2,917 

Other assets 
 1,739 

Deferred tax assets 
 1,250 

Intangible assets 
 9,900 

Total identifiable assets acquired 
 21,738 

  
   

Accounts payable and other liabilities 
 (1,740)

Deferred tax liabilities 
 (3,665)

Deferred revenue 
 (2,500)

Total liabilities assumed 
 (7,905)

  
   

Goodwill 
 10,025 

Net assets acquired 
$23,858 

 
Intangible Assets 
 
In determining the fair value of the intangible
assets, we considered, among other factors, the intended use of acquired assets, analyses of historical financial performance,
and estimates of future performance of VividLogic’s products. The fair values of identified intangible assets were calculated
using an income approach based on estimates and assumptions provided by VividLogic’s and our management. The following table
sets forth the components of identified intangible assets associated with the VividLogic acquisition and their estimated useful
lives:
 


  
Useful life  
Fair Value 

  
   
(in thousands) 

Existing technology 
 5-9  years  
$2,200 

Non-compete agreements 
 5 years  
 700 

Customer contracts 
 9 years  
 6,200 

Trade name 
 indefinite  
 200 

Backlog 
 1 year  
 600 

Total intangible assets 
   
$9,900 

 
We determined the useful life of intangible
assets based on the expected future cash flows associated with the respective asset. Existing technology is comprised of products
that have reached technological feasibility and are part of VividLogic’s product line. Non-compete agreements represent the
fair value of the non-compete with the former shareholders and key employees and will be amortized over the respective terms of
the agreements. Customer contracts represent the underlying relationships and agreements with VividLogic’s installed customer
base. Trade name represents the value of the VividLogic name. Backlog represents the discounted value of the orders received from
customers but unfulfilled. Amortization of existing technology is included in cost of product revenue, and amortization expense
for customer relationships, non-compete and backlog are included in operating expenses. The weighted average life of the remaining
amortization expense is approximately eight years.
 


71
 

 
Goodwill 
 
Of the total VividLogic purchase price
of $23.9 million, $10.0 million was allocated to goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired
business over the fair value of the underlying net tangible and intangible assets. We
determined that the goodwill included the value of VividLogic’s work force and expected synergies in global sales and marketing.
We consider the acquired business an addition to our Software reporting segment. We made this determination based upon the
financial information provided and reviewed by our Chief Executive Officer (the chief operating decision maker) and the similar
economic characteristics to our other products in our Software segment. None of the goodwill associated with the VividLogic acquisition
is deductible for income tax purposes.
 
Deferred Revenue 
 
In connection with the allocation of consideration
transferred, we recorded the fair value of the customer contract obligations assumed from VividLogic. The fair value of the customer
contract obligations was determined using a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating
the costs relating to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates,
in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the service obligations. The estimated costs to
fulfill the service obligations were based on the historical direct costs and indirect costs related to VividLogic’s contracts
with its customers. Direct costs include personnel directly engaged in providing service and support activities, while indirect
costs consist of estimated general and administrative expenses based on normalized levels as a percentage of revenue. Profit associated
with selling efforts was excluded because VividLogic had concluded the selling efforts on the service contracts prior to the date
of our acquisition. The research and development costs associated with the customer contracts have been included in the fair value
determination, as these costs were deemed to represent a legal obligation to the customers at the time of acquisition. We recorded
$2.5 million of deferred revenue as of the acquisition date to reflect the fair value of VividLogic’s service obligations
assumed.
 
Acquisition-related Consideration 
 
A liability was recognized for the acquisition
date fair value of the acquisition-related consideration for the deferred fixed purchase price, the estimated earnout payments
and working capital adjustments. Any change in the fair value of the acquisition-related consideration subsequent to the acquisition
date, including changes from events after the acquisition date, such as changes in our estimate of the meeting of performance goals,
will be recognized in earnings in the period the estimated fair value changes. The fair value estimate for the earnout payment
was estimated at $700,000 and is based on the probability weighted bookings to be achieved over the earnout period. A change in
fair value of the acquisition-related consideration could have a material effect on the statement of operations and financial position
in the period of the change in estimate. The fair value of the acquisition-related consideration to be distributed directly to
the VividLogic shareholders was estimated by us at the acquisition date to be $8.4 million.
 
Acquisition-related Costs 
 
We recorded transaction costs such as legal,
accounting, valuation and other professional services of $831,000 and $341,000 during fiscal 2011 and 2010. The transaction costs
were expensed and recorded in general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
 


72
 

 
7. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
 
At January 31, 2012 and 2011, we had goodwill
of $63.6 million and $64.7 million, respectively. The change in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended January 31,
2012 and 2011 are as follows:
 


  
Software  
Media Services  
Total 

  
   
   
  

Balance at January 31, 2010 
$35,696  
$19,586  
$55,282 

VividLogic acquisition 
 10,025  
 -  
 10,025 

Cumulative translation adjustment 
 (464) 
 (164) 
 (628)

  
    
    
   

Balance at January 31, 2011 
 45,257  
 19,422  
 64,679 

Cumulative translation adjustment 
 (842) 
 (197) 
 (1,039)

Balance at January 31, 2012 
$44,415  
$19,225  
$63,640 

 
The Goodwill balance excludes $594,000
of goodwill assigned based on a relative fair value calculation to the divestiture of the broadcast servers and storage business
unit that is included in non-current assets related to discontinued operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
As of August 1, 2011, we reviewed the recoverability
of goodwill associated with our previously reported three segments, Software, Servers and Storage, and Media Services, and determined
that there was no goodwill impairment. Following the divestiture of a portion of the broadcast servers and storage product lines,
the Software and VOD server product line was organized in the one business reporting segment. Reportable segments were determined
based upon the nature of the products offered to customers, the market characteristics of each operating segment and the Company’s
management structure. During the fourth quarter of fiscal
2012, we evaluated the impairment analysis and updated for the change in its estimates from August 1, 2011 to January 31, 2012.
While no impairment charges resulted from the analyses performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, impairment charges may
occur in the future due to changes in projected revenue growth rates, projected operating margins or estimated discount rates,
among other factors. 
 
At January 31, 2012 and 2011, we have recorded
net intangible assets of $ 23.8 million and $30.3 million respectively, consisting of patents, customer contracts, non-compete
agreements, completed technology, in-process research and development and trademarks.
 
Intangible assets, net, consisted of the
following:
 



  
   
January
    31, 2012  
January
    31, 2011 

  
Weighted
    average remaining life (Years)  
Gross  
Accumulated
    Amortization  
Net  
Gross  
Accumulated
    Amortization  
Net 

  
   
(in thousands)  
(in thousands) 

Finite-lived
    intangible assets: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Customer contracts 
 5.5  
$34,106  
$(17,131) 
$16,975  
$34,576  
$(14,291) 
$20,285 

Non-compete agreements 
 1.5  
 2,673  
 (1,869) 
 804  
 2,742  
 (1,104) 
 1,638 

Completed technology 
 4.4  
 12,294  
 (6,646) 
 5,648  
 11,976  
 (4,775) 
 7,201 

Trademarks
    and other 
 0.9  
 2,345  
 (2,211) 
 134  
 2,384  
 (1,946) 
 438 

Total
    finite-lived intangible assets 
    
$51,418  
$(27,857) 
$23,561  
$51,678  
$(22,116) 
$29,562 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Infinite-lived
    intangible assets: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

In-process research and development 
 Infinite  
    
    
    
 544  
    
 544 

Trade names 
 Infinite  
$200  
$-  
$200  
$200  
$-  
$200 

Total
    intangible assets 
    
$51,618  
$(27,857) 
$23,761  
$52,422  
$(22,116) 
$30,306 

 


73
 

 
Estimated useful lives and the amortization basis for the intangible
assets are as follows:
 


 
 
 Estimated Useful Life and Amortization Basis 

Customer contracts 
 
1 - 8 years using economic consumption life basis 

Non compete agreements
 
2 - 3 years economic life of the agreement

Completed technology 
 
4 - 6 years using economic consumption life basis 

Trademarks and other 
 
5 years using economic consumption life basis 

In-process R & D
 
indefinite life

Trade names
 
indefinite life

 
Amortization expense for intangible assets
was $6.1 million, $5.4 million and $3.5 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, $2.2
million, $2.0 million, and $638,000, respectively, were charged to cost of product revenues. In fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, $3.9
million, $3.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively, were charged to operating expense. The total amortization expense for each
of the next five fiscal years is as follows:
 


  
Amortization 

  
Expense 

  
(in thousands) 

Fiscal 2013 
$5,805 

Fiscal 2014 
 4,661 

Fiscal 2015 
 4,324 

Fiscal 2016 
 3,499 

Fiscal 2017 and thereafter 
 5,272 

Total Future Amortization 
$23,561 

 
Actual amounts may change from such estimated
amounts due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, additional intangible asset acquisitions, potential impairment,
accelerated amortization, or other events.
 
8. Restructuring Expenses
 
During fiscal 2012, the Company continued
to take actions to lower its cost structure as it strives to improve its financial performance and incurred restructuring charges
totaling $3.3 million including severance costs of $2.8 million for the termination of 33 employees, including the departure of
the President and the retirement of the Chief Executive Officer, the write-down of $430,000 of inventory relating to discontinued
VOD server product lines and $270,000 charge for the disposal of fixed assets relating to the New Hampshire facility. During fiscal
2011, we incurred restructuring charges of approximately $7.0 million related to the termination of 110 employees, incurred an
inventory write-down of approximately $2.5 million and took a charge related to the disposal of fixed assets of $1.3 million as
part of an overall restructuring plan.
 
The severance amounts reported as a component of accrued liabilities
on the Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2012 were as follows:
 


(in thousands) 
Severance 

Accrual balance as of January 31, 2011 
$408 

Amount charged to expense 
 2,840 

Severance costs paid 
 (1,023)

Accrual balance as of January 31, 2012 
$2,225 

 
9. Lines of Credit 
 
We
maintain a revolving line of credit with RBS Citizens (a subsidiary of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc) for $20.0 million
which expires on October 31, 2012. Loans made under this revolving line of credit bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the
bank’s prime rate. Borrowings under this line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. The
loan agreement requires us to comply with certain financial covenants. As
of January 31, 2012, we were in compliance with the financial covenants and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving
line of credit. 
 


74
 

 
We are occasionally required to post letters
of credit, issued by a financial institution, to secure certain sales contracts. Letters of credit generally authorize the financial
institution to make a payment to the beneficiary upon the satisfaction of a certain event or the failure to satisfy an obligation.
The letters of credit are generally posted for one-year terms and are usually automatically renewed upon maturity until such time
as we have satisfied the commitment secured by the letter of credit. We are obligated to reimburse the issuer only if the beneficiary
collects on the letter of credit. We believe that it is unlikely we will be required to fund a claim under our outstanding letters
of credit. As of January 31, 2012 the full amount of the letters of credit of $1.6 million was supported by our credit facility.
 
10. Commitments and Contingencies 
 
We lease certain of our operating facilities,
automobiles and office equipment under non-cancelable operating leases, which expire at various dates through 2015. Rental expense
under operating leases was $3.4 million, $3.2 million and $2.6 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Future commitments
under minimum lease payments as of January 31, 2012 are as follows:
 


  
Operating 

  
Leases 

  
(in thousands) 

Fiscal  2013 
$2,222 

2014 
 1,027 

2015 
 990 

2016 
 813 

2017 and thereafter 
 569 

Minimum lease payments 
$5,621 

 
We have non-cancelable purchase commitments
for its inventories of approximately $3.0 million at January 31, 2012 and studio content commitments of $13.3 million at January
31, 2012.
 
ARRIS Litigation
 
On July 31, 2009, ARRIS Group, Inc. (“ARRIS”) filed
a contempt motion in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against SeaChange International relating to U.S. Patent
No 5,805,804 (the “804 patent”), a patent in which ARRIS has an ownership interest. In its motion, ARRIS is seeking
further patent royalties and the enforcement of the permanent injunction entered by the Court on April 6, 2006 against certain
SeaChange products. On August 3, 2009, SeaChange filed a complaint seeking a declaratory judgment from the Court that its products
do not infringe the ‘804 patent and asserting certain equitable defenses. On June 4, 2010, the Court entered an Order staying
the declaratory judgment action pending resolution of the contempt proceeding. On September 2, 2011, the Court entered an Order
in which it concluded that a contempt proceeding is the appropriate procedure for resolving the parties’ dispute and that
further factual and legal determinations would be necessary. On March 1, 2012, the Court conducted a hearing at which the parties
submitted additional information. No determinations were made by the Court at the hearing as to liability, and the parties are
now scheduled to submit post-hearing briefs. We believe that our products do not infringe on the ‘804 patent and that we
have meritorious defenses against the suit, however, the ultimate resolution of the matter is not reasonably estimable at this
time, but could result in a material liability for the Company.
 


75
 

 
Indemnification and Warranties
 
We
enter into agreements in the ordinary course of business with customers, resellers, distributors, integrators and suppliers. Most
of these agreements require us to defend and/or indemnify the other party against intellectual property infringement claims brought
by a third party with respect to our products. From time to time, we also indemnify customers and business partners for damages,
losses and liabilities they may suffer or incur relating to personal injury, personal property damage, product liability, and environmental
claims relating to the use of our products and services or resulting from the acts or omissions of us, our employees, authorized
agents or subcontractors. For example, we have received requests from several of our customers for indemnification of patent litigation
claims asserted by Acacia Media Technologies, USA Video Technology Corporation, VTran Media Technologies and Active Video Networks,
Inc. Management cannot reasonably estimate any potential losses, but these claims could result in material liability for
us.
 
We warrant that our products, including
software products, will substantially perform in accordance with its standard published specifications in effect at the time of
delivery. Most warranties have at least a one year duration that generally commence upon installation. In addition, we provide
maintenance support to our customers and therefore allocate a portion of the product purchase price to the initial warranty period
and recognizes revenue on a straight line basis over that warranty period related to both the warranty obligation and the maintenance
support agreement. When SeaChange receives revenue for extended warranties beyond the standard duration, it is deferred and recognized
on a straight line basis over the contract period. Related costs are expensed as incurred.
 
In the ordinary course of business, we
provide minimum purchase guarantees to certain of our vendors to ensure continuity of supply against the market demand. Although
some of these guarantees provide penalties for cancellations and/or modifications to the purchase commitments as the market demand
decreases, most of the guarantees do not. Therefore, as the market demand decreases, we re-evaluate the accounting implications
of guarantees and determine what charges, if any, should be recorded.
 
With respect to our agreements covering
product, business or entity divestitures and acquisitions, we provide certain representations and warranties and agrees to indemnify
and hold such purchasers harmless against breaches of such representations, warranties and covenants. With respect to our acquisitions,
we may, from time to time, assume the liability for certain events or occurrences that took place prior to the date of acquisition.
 
We provide such guarantees and indemnification
obligations after considering the economics of the transaction and other factors including but not limited to the liquidity and
credit risk of the other party in the transaction. We believe that the likelihood is remote that any such arrangement could have
a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation or liquidity. We record liabilities, as disclosed above,
for such guarantees based on our best estimate of probable losses which considers amounts recoverable under any recourse provisions.
 
11. Stockholders’ Equity 
 
Stock Authorization 
 
The Board of Directors is authorized to
issue from time to time up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, in one or more series. Each such series of preferred
stock shall have the number of shares, designations, preferences, voting powers, qualifications and special or relative rights
or privileges to be determined by the Board of Directors, including dividend rights, voting rights, redemption rights and sinking
fund provisions, liquidation preferences, conversion rights and preemptive rights. No preferred stock has been issued as of January
31, 2012.
 
Stock Repurchase Program
 
On May 26, 2010, our Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $20.0 million of its common stock, par value $.01 per share, through a share repurchase program.
The repurchase program terminated on January 31, 2012. During the year ended January 31, 2011, we repurchased approximately
178,000 shares at a cost of $1.4 million at an average purchase price $8.05. During fiscal 2011, there were 1,484,617 treasury
shares retired. During fiscal 2012, we did not repurchase any shares.
 


76
 

 
On March 28, 2012, our Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $25.0 million of its common stock, par value $.01 per share, through a share repurchase program.
The repurchase program terminates on January 31, 2013.
 
For fiscal 2011, approximately 465,446
RSUs were earned by the Company executive officers under the Company’s fiscal 2011 performance based plan. These RSUs were
not awarded due to the Company not having sufficient RSUs available within the 2005 Plan to satisfy the RSUs earned. The Company
recorded a liability totaling $1.4 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2011 for the estimated fair value
of the award. The award was re-measured quarterly until the increase in the RSUs was approved by the shareholders. These shares
were awarded at the Company’s annual meeting on July 20, 2011.
 
12. Segment Information 
 
Operating segments are defined as components
of an enterprise evaluated regularly by our senior management in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Through
the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we managed and operated as three segments, Software, Servers and Storage, and Media Services,
Following the classification of a portion of the broadcast servers and storage business unit as an asset held for sale,
the Software and VOD product line was organized in the one business reporting segment. We have two segments in which senior management
decides how to allocate resources and assess performance. Reportable segments were determined based upon the nature of the products
offered to customers, the market characteristics of each operating segment and the Company’s management structure.
 

•Software segment – This segment includes
product revenues from our advertising, back-office including video streamers, and home gateway software solutions, related services
such as professional services, installation, training, project management, product maintenance, technical support and software
development for those software products.

 

•Media Services segment – This agreement includes
the operations of the On Demand Group which include content acquisition and preparation services for television and wireless service
providers.

 
Under
this revised reporting structure, we further determined that there are significant functions, and therefore costs considered corporate
expenses and are not allocated to the reportable segments for the purposes of assessing performance and making operating decisions.
These unallocated costs include general and administrative expenses, other than general and administrative expenses related to
Media Services, interest and other income, net, taxes and equity income (losses) in affiliates, which are managed separately at
the corporate level. The segment data for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2012, 2011, and
2010 has been recast to reflect the realignment of the new segments.
 
The basis of the assumptions for all such
revenues, costs and expenses includes significant judgments and estimations. There are no inter-segment revenues for the periods
shown below. We do not separately track all assets by operating segments nor are the segments evaluated under this criterion.
 


77
 

 
The following summarizes the income from
operations by reportable operating segment:
 
SeaChange International, Inc. 
Condensed Consolidated Operating Segments - Unaudited 
(in thousands)
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

Software 
(in thousands) 

Revenue: 
    
    
   

Products 
$73,157  
$82,155  
$97,005 

Services 
 91,635  
 91,501  
 73,141 

Total revenue 
 164,792  
 173,656  
 170,146 

Gross profit 
 93,157  
 98,064  
 95,786 

Operating expenses: 
    
    
   

Research and development 
 40,692  
 44,569  
 45,104 

Selling and marketing 
 21,619  
 21,055  
 22,425 

General and administrative 
 2,032  
 1,465  
 502 

Amortization of intangibles 
 3,784  
 3,073  
 2,246 

Acquisition costs 
 3,312  
 764  
 - 

Restructuring 
 2,366  
 6,085  
 - 

Total operating expenses 
 73,805  
 77,011  
 70,277 

Income from operations 
$19,352  
$21,053  
$25,509 

  
    
    
   

Media Services 
    
    
   

Service revenue 
$32,913  
$28,031  
$19,794 

Gross profit 
 4,855  
 4,791  
 3,284 

Operating expenses: 
    
    
   

Selling and marketing 
    
 -  
 - 

General and administrative 
 3,421  
 4,026  
 3,015 

Amortization of intangibles 
 139  
 286  
 580 

Total operating expenses 
 3,560  
 4,312  
 3,595 

Income (loss) from operations 
$1,295  
$479  
$(311)

  
    
    
   

Unallocated Corporate 
    
    
   

Operating expenses: 
    
    
   

General and administrative 
$18,663  
$18,156  
$17,306 

Restructuring 
 950  
$912  
$- 

Total unallocated corporate expenses 
$19,613  
$19,068  
$17,306 

  
    
    
   

Consolidated income from operations 
$1,034  
$2,464  
$7,892 

 
The following summarizes revenues by customers’
geographic locations.
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
Amount  
%  
Amount  
%  
Amount  
% 

Revenues by customers' geographic locations: 
(in thousands, except percentages) 

North America 
$107,277  
 54% 
$118,895  
 59% 
$130,642  
 69%

Europe and Middle East 
 80,789  
 41% 
 63,127  
 31% 
 41,794  
 22%

Latin America 
 5,578  
 3% 
 10,477  
 5% 
 12,776  
 7%

Asia Pacific and other international locations 
 4,061  
 2% 
 9,188  
 5% 
 4,728  
 2%

Total revenues 
$197,705  
    
$201,687  
    
$189,940  
   

 
Total revenues for the United States for
the years ended January 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, were $97.3 million, $108.6.0 million, and $126.8 million, respectively.
 


78
 

 
The following summarizes fixed assets,
net by geographic locations:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
$ Amount  
%  
$ Amount  
% 

Fixed assets, net by geographic locations: 
(in thousands, except percentages) 

North America 
$15,734  
 52% 
$20,233  
 59%

United Kingdom 
 10,478  
 35% 
 10,250  
 29%

Europe (excluding UK) and Middle East 
 997  
 3% 
 835  
 2%

Asia Pacific and other international locations 
 3,357  
 10% 
 3,540  
 10%

Total fixed assts by geographic location 
$30,566  
    
$34,858  
   

 
 
13. Stock-Based Compensation and Stock
Incentive Plans 
 
We use on a modified prospective basis,
the provisions of the authoritative guidance which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based
payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options, restricted stock units and, prior to its termination,
employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) based on estimated fair values. The fair
value of our stock-based options and performance-based restricted stock units, less expected forfeitures, is amortized over the
awards’ vesting period on a graded vesting basis, whereas the restricted stock units and Employee Stock Purchase Plan stock
units are amortized on a straight line basis. We have applied the provisions of authoritative guidance allowing the use of a “simplified”
method, in developing an estimate of the expected term of “plain vanilla” share options.
 
Stock-based compensation includes expense
charges for all stock-based awards to employees and directors. Such awards include option grants, restricted stock unit awards,
and, prior to its termination, shares expected to be purchased under an employee stock purchase plan. The estimated fair value
of our stock-based options and performance-based restricted stock units, less expected forfeitures, is amortized over the awards’
vesting period on a graded vesting basis, whereas the restricted stock units and ESPP stock units are amortized on a straight line
basis.
 
The effect of recording stock-based compensation
was as follows:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
(in thousands) 

Stock-based compensation expense by type of award: 
    
    
   

Stock options 
$77  
$(60) 
$94 

Restricted stock units 
 1,317  
 766  
 639 

Performance-based restricted stock units 
 1,964  
 2,107  
 1,628 

Employee stock purchase plan 
 -  
 144  
 744 

Total stock-based compensation 
$3,358  
$2,957  
$3,105 

 
Since additional option grants and restricted
stock unit awards are expected to be made each year and options and awards vest over several years, the effects of applying authoritative
guidance for recording stock-based compensation for the year ended January 31, 2012 are not indicative of future amounts.
 
Determining Fair Value
 
We record the fair value of stock options,
including rights granted under the ESPP prior to its termination, using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Key input assumptions
used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the exercise price, the expected option term, the risk-free interest rate
over the option’s expected term, the expected annual dividend yield and the expected stock price volatility. The expected
option term was determined using the “simplified” method for “plain vanilla” options. The expected stock
price volatility was established using a blended volatility, which is an average of the historical volatility of our common stock
over a period of time equal to the expected term of the stock option, and the average volatility of our common stock over the most
recent one-year and two-year periods.
 


79
 

 
The fair value of stock options granted
was estimated at the date of grant using the following assumptions:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

Expected term (in years) 
 4-5  
 4-5  
 4-5 

Expected volatility (range) 
 52% 
 51%-53%  
 61%

Weighted average volatility 
 52% 
 53% 
 61%

Risk-free interest rate 
 0.8% 
 1.5%-1.6%  
 1.2%

Weighted average interest rate 
 0.8% 
 1.6% 
 1.2%

Expected dividend yield 
 0% 
 0% 
 0%

 
The fair value of ESPP stock granted was
estimated at the date of grant using following assumptions:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

Expected term (in years) 
 *  
 0.5  
 0.5 

Weighted average volatility 
 *  
 48% 
 71%

Weighted average interest rate 
 *  
 0.1% 
 0.3%

Expected dividend yield 
 *  
 0% 
 0%

  
    
    
   

 
* No ESPP shares granted in fiscal 2012. The ESPP plan was cancelled in fiscal 2011
 
Stock Option Plans 
 
2011 Compensation and Incentive Plan.
 
On
July 20, 2011 our stockholders approved the adoption of our 2011 Compensation and Incentive Plan (the “2011 Plan”)
under a number shares of common stock equal to 2.8 million plus the number of expired, terminated, surrendered or forfeited awards
under the Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Compensation and Incentive Plan (the“
2005 Plan”) subsequent to July 20, 2011 were authorized and terminated the Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Compensation
and Incentive Plan. The 2011 Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock,
restricted stock units, and other equity based non stock option awards as determined by the plan administrator for the purchase
of up to an aggregate of 2,800,000 shares of our common stock by officers, employees, consultants and directors of the Company.
We may satisfy awards upon the exercise of stock options or vesting of restricted stock units with newly issued shares or treasury
shares. The Board of Directors is responsible for the administration of the 2011 Plan and determining the term of each award, award
exercise price, the number of shares for which each award is granted and the rate at which each award vests. As of January 31,
2012, there were 1.9 million shares available for future grant. 
 
Option awards may be granted to employees
at an exercise price per share of not less than 100% of the fair market value per common share on the date of the grant. Restricted
stock units and other equity-based non-stock option awards may be granted to any officer, employee, director or consultant at a
purchase price per share as determined by the Board of Directors. Awards granted under the 2011 Plan generally vest over three
years and expire seven years from the date of the grant.
 
Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Compensation
and Incentive Plan 
 
The 2005 plan was terminated upon the adoption
of the 2011 Plan on July 20, 2011. No further awards will be granted under the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan provided for the grant
of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and “other” non-stock
option awards as determined by the plan administrator for the purchase of up to an aggregate of 2,800,000 shares of our common
stock by officers, employees, consultants and directors of the Company. We may satisfy awards upon the exercise of stock options
or vesting of restricted stock units with either newly issued shares or treasury shares. The Board of Directors is responsible
for the administration of the 2005 Plan and determining the term of each award, award exercise price, number of shares for which
each award is granted and the rate at which each award is exercisable.
 


80
 

 
The following table summarizes the stock
option activity (excluding restricted stock units):
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
Shares  
Weighted average exercise price  
Shares  
Weighted average exercise price  
Shares  
Weighted average exercise price 

Outstanding at beginning of period 
 2,382,174  
$12.31  
 3,934,973  
$15.41  
 4,228,237  
$15.43 

Granted 
 250,000  
 6.74  
 15,000  
 8.77  
 60,000  
 6.23 

Exercised 
 (253,668) 
 7.04  
 (309,195) 
 6.71  
 (47,805) 
 6.79 

Forfeited/expired/cancelled 
 (253,135) 
 16.11  
 (1,258,604) 
 23.30  
 (305,459) 
 15.38 

Outstanding at end of period 
 2,125,371  
$11.83  
 2,382,174  
$12.31  
 3,934,973  
$15.41 

Options exercisable at end of period 
 1,878,707  
$12.51  
 2,367,176  
$12.33  
 3,865,221  
$15.56 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Weighted average remaining contractual term (in years) 
    
 2.10  
    
 1.95  
    
 3.38 

 
The weighted-average fair valuation at
grant date of stock options granted during the years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, was $2.86, $3.70, and $3.21, respectively.
As of January 31, 2012, the unrecognized stock-based compensation related to the unvested stock options was $682,000 net of estimated
forfeitures. Total unrecognized compensation cost will be adjusted for any future changes in estimated changes in forfeitures.
This cost will be recognized over an estimated weighted average amortization period of seventeen months.
 
The total intrinsic value of options exercised
during the years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was approximately $754,000, $473,000 and $60,000, respectively, with intrinsic
value defined as the difference between the market price on the date of exercise and the grant date price.
 
The cash received from employees as a result
of employee stock option exercises during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $1.8 million, $2.1 million, and $324,000, respectively.
 
The following table summarizes information
about employee and director stock options outstanding and exercisable as of January 31, 2012:
 


  
Options Outstanding  
Options Exercisable 

  
Number outstanding  
Weighted average remaining contractual terms (years)  
Weighted average
 exercise
 price  
Number exercisable  
Weighted average
 exercise
 price 

Range of exercise prices 
   
   
   
   
  

$ 5.85 to 6.88 
 95,336  
 0.68  
$6.16  
 95,336  
$6.16 

6.74 to 6.74 
 250,000  
 6.56  
 6.74  
 12,500  
 6.74 

6.78 to 7.00 
 219,002  
 0.98  
 6.94  
 219,002  
 6.94 

7.23 to 10.33 
 234,465  
 1.73  
 9.21  
 225,298  
 9.23 

10.45 to 12.21 
 276,346  
 1.85  
 11.65  
 276,346  
 11.65 

12.95 to 13.66 
 113,273  
 0.70  
 13.29  
 113,273  
 13.29 

13.76 to 13.76 
 236,976  
 0.18  
 13.76  
 236,976  
 13.76 

14.57 to 15.59 
 339,691  
 1.99  
 15.02  
 339,694  
 15.02 

15.62 to 17.39 
 334,682  
 2.35  
 16.56  
 334,682  
 16.56 

17.86 to 28.26 
 25,600  
 1.23  
 22.51  
 25,600  
 22.51 

  
 2,125,371  
 2.10  
$11.83  
 1,878,707  
$12.51 

 


81
 

 
Restricted Stock Units 
 
Pursuant to the 2011 Plan, we may grant
restricted stock units that entitle the recipient to acquire shares of our common stock. Awards of restricted stock units generally
vest in equal increments on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant of the award. Stock-based compensation expense associated
with the restricted stock units is charged for the market value of our stock on the date of grant, assuming nominal forfeitures,
and is amortized over the awards’ vesting period on a straight-line basis for awards with only a service condition and graded
vesting basis for awards that include both a performance and service condition. As of January 31, 2012 there were 1.9 million RSUs
available to be granted. For fiscal 2012, approximately 51,000 RSUs were earned by our executive officers under the Company’s
fiscal 2012 performance based plan
 
The following table summarizes the restricted
stock unit activity:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
   
Weighted average  
   
Weighted average  
   
Weighted average 

  
   
grant date  
   
grant date  
   
grant date 

  
Shares  
fair value  
Shares  
fair value  
Shares  
fair value 

Nonvested at beginning of period 
 363,078  
$8.00  
 572,489  
$7.94  
 458,674  
$8.99 

Awarded 
 855,143  
 10.10  
 223,020  
 8.12  
 523,346  
 6.45 

Vested 
 (381,955) 
 7.53  
 (353,542) 
 8.15  
 (409,531) 
 7.22 

Forfeited/expired/cancelled 
 (114,901) 
 9.73  
 (78,889) 
 7.20  
 -  
 - 

Nonvested at end of period 
 721,365  
$10.46  
 363,078  
$8.00  
 572,489  
$7.94 

 
 
As of January 31, 2012 the unrecognized
stock-based compensation related to the unvested restricted stock units was $4.5 million. This cost will be recognized over an
estimated weighted average amortization period of 2.1 years. Due to the retirement of our Chief Executive Officer on December 8,
2011, his unvested restricted stock units were accounted for as a modification to the terms and conditions. This modification resulted
in the cancellation of unvested restricted awards with a grant date value of $1.9 million and recognition of stock compensation
expense of $1.3 million.
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
 
In September 1996, our Board of Directors
adopted and the stockholders approved an employee stock purchase plan (the “ESPP”), effective January 1, 1997 as amended
July 16, 2008, which provided for the issuance of a maximum of 2.2 million shares of common stock to participating employees who
meet eligibility requirements. The Plan was terminated on May 31, 2010. The purchase price of the stock was 85% of the lesser of
the average market price of the common stock on the first or last business day of each six-month plan period. During fiscal 2011
and 2010, the number of shares of common stock issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan were 135,632 and 282,889, respectively.
The cash received from employees as a result of the ESPP during fiscal 2011 and 2010 was $660,000, and $1.5 million, respectively.
 
14. Income Taxes
 
The components of income before income
taxes are as follows:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
(in thousands) 

Domestic 
$(13,610) 
$20,769  
$3,192 

Foreign 
 14,286  
 8,348  
 4,845 

  
$676  
$29,117  
$8,037 

 


82
 

 
The components of the income tax benefit
(expense) are as follows:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
(in thousands) 

Current: 
    
    
   

Federal 
$3,429  
$(2,546) 
$(271)

State 
 (667) 
 (188) 
 32 

Foreign 
 (1,565) 
 (787) 
 (1,114)

  
 1,197  
 (3,521) 
 (1,353)

Deferred: 
    
    
   

Federal 
 (3,183) 
 4,677  
 - 

State 
 (348) 
 137  
 - 

Foreign 
 141  
 1,145  
 1,082 

  
 (3,390) 
 5,959  
 1,082 

  
$(2,193) 
$2,438  
$(271)

 
The income tax benefit (expense) computed
using the federal statutory income tax rate differs from our effective tax rate primarily due to the following:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
(in thousands) 

Statutory U.S. federal tax rate 
$(237) 
$(10,191) 
$(2,813)

State taxes, net of federal tax benefit 
 (660) 
 (49) 
 29 

Losses not benefitted 
 (3,889) 
 8,633  
 713 

Non-deductible stock compensation expense 
 68  
 79  
 (133)

Other 
 (961) 
 529  
 39 

Research and development tax credits 
 291  
 117  
 130 

Foreign tax rate differential 
 3,195  
 3,320  
 1,764 

  
$(2,193) 
$2,438  
$(271)

 
Our
effective tax rate was (324%), 8%, and 4% in the years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The income tax
expense for fiscal 2012 was primarily due to $1.0 million of state income taxes and income tax expense of $1.5 million at foreign
subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Ireland.
 


83
 

 
The components of deferred income taxes
are as follows:
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(in thousands) 

Deferred tax assets: 
    
   

Accruals and reserves 
$1,890  
$2,593 

Deferred revenue 
 3,255  
 6,478 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 1,549  
 1,277 

U.S. federal, state and foreign tax credits 
 4,951  
 1,586 

Net operating loss carryforwards 
 4,321  
 3,403 

Property and equipment 
 -  
 30 

Other 
 29  
 15 

Deferred tax assets 
 15,995  
 15,382 

Less: Valuation allowance 
 (12,254) 
 (6,985)

Net deferred tax assets 
 3,741  
 8,397 

Deferred tax liabilities: 
    
   

Intangible assets 
 5,928  
 7,371 

Property and equipment 
 120  
 - 

Total net deferred tax assets(liabilities) 
$(2,307) 
$1,026 

 
At January 31, 2012, we had federal, state
and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $2.6 million, $27.0 million and $14.4 million respectively, which can be used to
offset future tax liabilities and expire at various dates beginning in fiscal 2016. Utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards
may be limited pursuant to provisions of the respective local jurisdiction. At January 31, 2012, we had federal and state research
and development credit carryforwards of approximately $3.1 million and $848,000 respectively, and state investment tax credit carryforwards
of $178,000. The federal credit carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in fiscal 2016, if not utilized. Certain state
credit carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in fiscal 2013, while certain other state credit carryforwards may
be carried forward indefinitely. Utilization of these credit carryforwards may be limited pursuant to provisions of the respective
local jurisdiction. We also have alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $558,000 which are available to reduce future
federal regular income taxes over an indefinite period. We have foreign tax credit carryforwards of $600,000 which are available
to reduce future federal regular income taxes.
 
We review quarterly the adequacy of the
valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. We have evaluated the positive and negative evidence bearing upon the realizability
of our deferred tax assets and have established a valuation allowance of approximately $12.3 million for such assets, which are
comprised principally of net operating loss carryforwards, research and development credits, deferred revenue, inventory and stock
based compensation. If we generate pre-tax income in the future, some portion or all of the valuation allowance could be reversed
and a corresponding increase in net income would be reported in future periods. The valuation allowance increased from $7.0 million
at January 31, 2011 to $12.3 million at January 31, 2012
 
At January
31, 2012, we have indefinitely reinvested $68.3 million of the cumulative undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries.
Approximately $45.1 million of such earnings would be subject to U.S. taxes if repatriated to the U.S. Through January 31, 2012,
we have not provided deferred income taxes on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries because such earnings are
considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Non-US income taxes are, however, provided on those foreign subsidiaries’
undistributed earnings with the exception of ZQ Interactive, LTD based in the British Virgin Islands. Determination of the potential
deferred income tax liability on these undistributed earnings is not practicable because such liability, if any, is dependent on
circumstances existing if and when remittance occurs.
 


84
 

 
For the year ended January 31, 2012, we
recognized an additional tax expense for unrecognized tax benefits of $431,000. None of the amounts included in the balance of
unrecognized tax benefits at January 31, 2012 of $6.5 million are related to tax positions for which it is reasonably possible
that the total amounts could significantly change during the next twelve months. We recognize accrued interest and penalties related
to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of the total amounts of
gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest of $721,000 is as follows (in thousands):
 


  
Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
(in thousands) 

Balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits, beginning of period 
$7,283  
$6,985 

Increases due to acquisitions 
 -  
 1,200 

Gross amounts of increases in unrecognized tax benefits as a result of 
    
   

Gross amounts of increases in unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax
    positions taken in the current period 
 431  
 404 

Decrease due to expiration of statute of limitation 
 (319) 
 (188)

Decrease due to settlement 
 (876) 
 (1,094)

Effect of currency translation 
 (55) 
 (24)

Balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits, end of period 
$6,464  
$7,283 

 
 
We and our subsidiaries file income tax
returns in U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state jurisdictions, and various foreign jurisdictions. We are no longer subject
to U.S. federal examinations before 2008. However, the taxing authorities still have the ability to review the propriety of certain
tax attributes created in closed years if such tax attributes are utilized in an open tax year, such as our federal research and
development credit carryovers.
 
15. Employee Benefit Plan 
 
We sponsor
a 401(k) retirement savings plan (the “Plan”). Participation in the Plan is available to full-time employees who meet
eligibility requirements. Eligible employees may contribute up to 25% of their annual salary, subject to certain limitations. We
matched contributions up to 50% of the first 6% of compensation. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we contributed $1.2 million,
$1.3 million and $1.4 million, respectively. We also contribute to various retirement plans in its international subsidiaries,
of which the amounts will vary, according to the local plans specific to each foreign location.
 
16. Related Party 
 
On September 1, 2009, we completed our
acquisition of eventIS from a holding company in which Erwin van Dommelen held a 31.5% interest. Subsequent to the acquisition
Mr. van Dommelen was appointed President of SeaChange’s Software segment in March 2010. On closing the transaction, we made
cash payments to the holding company totaling $37.0 million and issued $1.1 million of restricted shares. We have made and are
obligated to make additional fixed and variable earnout payments to the holding company of deferred purchase price under the eventIS
share purchase agreement. See note 6 for payment details.
 


85
 

 
17. Quarterly Results of Operations—Unaudited

 
The following table sets forth certain
unaudited quarterly results of operations for fiscal 2012 and 2011. In the opinion of management, this information has been prepared
on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and all necessary adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring
adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the quarterly information when read in conjunction
with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The
quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations.
 


  
Three
    months ended 

  
April 30,  
July 31,  
October 31,  
January 31,  
April 30,  
July 31,  
October 31,  
January 31, 

  
2010  
2010  
2010  
2011  
2011  
2011  
2011  
2012 

Revenue 
$51,882  
$45,587  
$46,335  
$57,883  
$49,072  
$46,158  
$50,778  
$51,697 

Gross profit 
 26,550  
 22,448  
 22,285  
 31,572  
 23,542  
 23,023  
 25,137  
 26,310 

Operating expenses 
 30,095  
 22,700  
 24,694  
 22,902  
 23,833  
 22,283  
 24,598  
 26,264 

Net income (loss) from continuing operations 
 21,395  
 3,194  
 (4,163) 
 11,214  
 255  
 846  
 1,179  
 (3,564)

Net (loss) income  from discontinued operations 
 (1,122) 
 314  
 (1,128) 
 (236) 
 (639) 
 (59) 
 (771) 
 (1,261)

Net income (loss) 
 20,273  
 3,508  
 (5,291) 
 10,978  
 (384) 
 787  
 408  
 (4,825)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Earnings
    per share from continuing operations: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Basic (loss) income per share 
 0.68  
 0.10  
 (0.13) 
 0.36  
 0.01  
 0.03  
 0.04  
 (0.11)

Diluted (loss) income per share 
 0.67  
 0.10  
 (0.13) 
 0.36  
 0.01  
 0.03  
 0.04  
 (0.11)

Loss
    per share from discontinued operations: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Basic loss per share 
 (0.04) 
 0.01  
 (0.04) 
 (0.01) 
 (0.02) 
 (0.00) 
 (0.02) 
 (0.04)

Diluted loss per share 
 (0.04) 
 0.01  
 (0.04) 
 (0.01) 
 (0.02) 
 (0.00) 
 (0.02) 
 (0.04)

Earnings per share: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Basic income (loss) per share 
 0.65  
 0.11  
 (0.17) 
 0.35  
 (0.01) 
 0.02  
 0.01  
 (0.15)

Diluted income (loss) per share 
 0.64  
 0.11  
 (0.17) 
 0.34  
 (0.01) 
 0.02  
 0.01  
 (0.15)

 
18.
Subsequent Events 
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012,
we initiated the sale of the broadcast servers and storage business unit. On March 21, 2012, we entered into an asset sale agreement
to sell a portion of our broadcast servers and storage business unit to a company located in China. As such we have reflected the
results of the associated sale as discontinued operations in our financial statements.
 
The following table details selected financial
information for the former Servers and Storage business unit:
 


  
Fiscal Year ended January 31, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

Revenues: 
(in thousands) 

  
   
   
  

Products 
$6,159  
$9,524  
$4,936 

Services 
 5,720  
 5,516  
 6,789 

Total revenues 
$11,879  
$15,040  
$11,725 

Loss from discontinued operations 
    
    
   

Loss from discontinued operations, before tax 
$2,630  
$2,072  
$5,690 

Income tax expense 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100)

Loss from discontinued operations, after tax 
$2,730  
$2,172  
$5,790 

 


86
 

 
The major classes of assets and liabilities
related to discontinued operations are as follows:
 


  
January 31,  
January 31, 

  
2012  
2011 

Assets 
(in thousands) 

Current assets: 
    
   

Inventories, net 
$2,940  
$3,352 

Prepaid expenses and other current assets 
 170  
 192 

Current assets related to discontinued operations 
 3,110  
 3,544 

Non current assets: 
    
   

Goodwill 
 594  
 594 

Other assets 
 108  
 108 

Property and equipment, net 
 1,597  
 1,523 

Non-current assets related to discontinued operations 
$2,299  
$2,225 

  
    
   

Liabilities 
    
   

Deferred revenues 
$2,779  
$3,226 

Current liabilities related to discontinued operations 
$2,779  
$3,226 

 


87
 

 
ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
 
None.
 
ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 
 
(A) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
 
We evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure
controls and procedures, as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) Rule 13a-15(e),
as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Raghu Rau, our Chief Executive Officer, and Michael D.
Bornak, our Chief Financial Officer, participated in this evaluation. Based upon that evaluation, Messrs. Rau and Bornak concluded
that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by the report.
 


88
 

 
(B) Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
 
Our management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Our internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors, and (iii)
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets
that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
Our management assessed the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2012. In making this assessment, management used the criteria
set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework. Based on our assessment, management concluded that, as of January 31, 2012, our internal control over financial
reporting was effective based on those criteria.
 
The effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting as of January 31, 2012 has been audited by Grant Thornton LLP, our independent registered public accounting
firm, as stated in their report which is included immediately below.
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of SeaChange International,
Inc.
 
We have audited SeaChange International,
Inc. (a Delaware Corporation) and subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2012, based on
criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). SeaChange International Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in
the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on SeaChange International, Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
A company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.
 


89
 

 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, SeaChange International,
Inc. and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 31,
2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by COSO.
 
We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
balance sheets of SeaChange International, Inc. and subsidiaries as of January 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended January 31, 2012 and our report dated April 5, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion.
 
/s/ Grant Thornton LLP
 
Boston, Massachusetts
April 5, 2012
 
(C) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

 
As a result of the evaluation completed by management, and in
which Messrs. Rau and Bornak participated, we have concluded that there were no changes during the fiscal quarter ended January
31, 2012 in our internal control over financial reporting, which have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 


90
 

 
ITEM 9B. Other Information 
 
None.

 
PART III 
 
ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

 
Information concerning the our directors
is hereby incorporated by reference from the information contained under the heading “Election of Directors” in our
definitive proxy statement related to our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on or about July 18, 2012 which will be filed
with the Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year (the “Definitive Proxy Statement”).
 
Certain information concerning directors
and executive officers of SeaChange is hereby incorporated by reference to the information contained under the headings “Information
Concerning Executive Officers”, and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance”, “Availability
of Corporate Governance Documents” and “Audit Committee” in our Definitive Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 
 
Information concerning executive compensation
is hereby incorporated by reference to the information contained under the headings “Compensation Discussion and Analysis”
and “Compensation of Directors” in the Definitive Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
 
Information concerning security ownership
of certain beneficial owners and management is hereby incorporated by reference to the information contained under the headings
“Securities Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis”
in the Definitive Proxy Statement.
 
Equity Compensation Plan Information
 
The following table provides information
about the common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and rights under all of our existing equity compensation
plans as of January 31, 2012, including the 2011 Equity Compensation and Incentive Plan.
 



Plan category 
Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights  
Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights  
Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) 

  
(a)  
(b)  
(c) 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1) 
 2,846,736  
$11.83  
 1,860,179(2)

 

 


(1)
 
Consists of the 2011 Equity Compensation and Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Compensation and Incentive Plan.

 

(2)
 
As of January 31, 2012, there were 1,860,179 shares remaining available for issuance under the 2011 Equity Compensation and Incentive Plan.

 


91
 

 
ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
and Director Independence 
 
Information concerning certain relationships
and related transactions is hereby incorporated by reference to the information contained under the heading “Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions” and “Determination of Director Independence” in the Definitive Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
 
Information concerning Principal accountant
fees and services is hereby incorporated by reference to the information contained under the heading “Ratification of Appointment
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the Definitive Proxy Statement.
 


92
 

 
PART IV 
 
ITEM 15. Exhibits 
 
(a)(1) INDEX TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The following Consolidated Financial Statements
of the Registrant are included in Item 8 filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
 


 
Page

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
50

Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2011 and 2010
51

Consolidated Statement of Operations for the years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
52

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
53

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
54

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
55

 
(a)(2) INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
The following Financial Statement Schedule
of the Registrant is filed as part of this report:
 


 
Page

Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
94

 
Schedules not listed above have been omitted because the information
requested to be set forth therein is not applicable or is shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements or notes
thereto.
 
(a)(3) INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
 
See attached Exhibit Index of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
 
(b) EXHIBITS 
 
The Company hereby files as part of this
Form 10-K the Exhibits listed in Item 15 (a) (3) above. Exhibits which are incorporated herein by reference can be inspected and
copied at the public reference facilities maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”),
450 Fifth Street, Room 1024, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such material can also be obtained from the Public Reference
Section of the Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.
 
(c) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
We hereby file as part of this Form 10-K the consolidated financial
statements schedule listed in Item 15 (a) (2) above, which is attached hereto.
 


93
 

 
Schedule II
SEACHANGE INTERNATIONAL, INC.
VALUATION OF QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES 
 
Years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010 
 


  
Balance at beginning of period  
Charged to costs and expenses  
Deductions and write-offs  
Other Adjustments  
Balance at end of period 

  
(in thousands) 

Accounts Receivable Allowance: 
    
    
    
    
   

Year ended January 31, 2012 
$995  
$100  
$(123) 
$-  
$972 

Year ended January 31, 2011 
$852  
$147  
$(4) 
$-  
$995 

Year ended January 31, 2010 
 853  
 75  
 (76) 
 -  
 852 

 


  
Balance at beginning of period  
Additions  
Deletions  
Adjustments  
Balance at end of period 

  
(in thousands) 

Deferred Tax Assets Valuation Allowance: 
    
    
    
    
   

Year ended January 31, 2012 
$6,985  
$5,269  
    
$-  
$12,254 

Year ended January 31, 2011 
$14,903  
$-  
$(7,918) 
$-  
$6,985 

Year ended January 31, 2010 
 15,692  
 -  
 (789) 
 -  
 14,903 

 


94
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SeaChange International, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 3, 2012
 


 
SEACHANGE INTERNATIONAL, INC.

 
 

 
By:  
/s/ Raghu
    Rau

 
 
Raghu Rau

 
 
Chief Executive Officer and Director

 
 
 
 
 
 
POWER OF ATTORNEY AND
SIGNATURES
 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each
person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Raghu Rau and Michael D. Bornak, jointly and severally, his attorney-in-fact,
each with the power of substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K and
to file same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done
by virtue hereof.
 
     Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 


Signature
 
Title(s)
 
Date

 

/s/ RAGHU RAU
 
Chief Executive Officer, Director
 
April 5, 2012

Raghu Rau
 
(Principal Executive Officer)
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

/s/ MICHAEL D. BORNAK
 
Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice
 
April 5, 2012

Michael D. Bornak
 
President, Finance and Administration,
 
 

 
 
Treasurer and Secretary (Principal Financial
 
 

 
 
and Accounting Officer)
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ MARY PALERMO COTTON
 
Director
 
April 5, 2012

Mary Palermo Cotton
 
 
 
 

 

/s/
    THOMAS F. OLSON
 
Director
 
April 5, 2012

Thomas F. Olson
 
 
 
 

 

/s/ CARLO
    SALVATORI
 
Director
 
April 5, 2012

Carlo Salvatori
 
 
 
 

 

/s/ CARMINE VONA
 
Director
 
April 5, 2012

Carmine Vona
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ PETER FELD
 
Director
 
April 5, 2012

Peter Feld
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ EDWARD
    TERINO
 
Director
 
April 5, 2012

Edward Terino
 
 
 
 

 


95
 

 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 


Exhibit No.
 
Description

2.1
 
 
Agreement for the Entire Issued Share Capital of eventIS Group B.V. dated as of September 1, 2009 by and among Ventise Holding B.V., SeaChange B.V. and SeaChange International, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on 10-Q previously filed on September 8, 2009 (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

2.2
 
 
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 6, 2010, by and among SeaChange International, Inc., Vividlogic, Inc., Vulcan Acquisition, Inc. and Shiva Patibanda in the limited capacity of Stockholder Representative (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed on January 8, 2010 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

3.1
 
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 previously filed on November 4, 1996 with the Commission (File No. 333-12233) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

3.2
 
 
Certificate of Amendment, filed May 25, 2000 with the Secretary of State in the State of Delaware, to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on 10-Q previously filed on December 15, 2000 with the Commission (Filed No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

3.3
 
 
Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed on January 25, 2011 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

4.1
 
 
Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 previously filed on November 4, 1996 with the Commission (File No. 333-12233) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

4.2
 
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 previously filed on November 4, 1996 with the Commission (File No. 333-12233) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

4.3
 
 
Certificate of Amendment, filed May 25, 2000 with the Secretary of State in the State of Delaware, to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s registration statement on Form S-3 previously filed on December 6, 2000 with the Commission (Filed No. 333-51386) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.1
 
 
2011 Compensation and Incentive Plan (filed as Appendix A to the Company’s Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A previously filed May 25, 2007 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.2
 
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement pursuant to the Company’s 2011 Compensation and Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed July 20, 2011 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.3
 
 
Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Compensation and Incentive Plan (filed as Appendix A to the Company’s Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A previously filed May 31, 2011 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.4
 
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement pursuant to the Company’s 2005 Equity Compensation and Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed December 14, 2005 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 


96
 

 


Exhibit No.
 
 
Description

10.5
 
 
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Company’s 2005 Equity Compensation and Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed on April 17, 2006 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.6
 
 
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Company’s 2005 Equity Compensation and Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed on April 17, 2006 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 

10.7
 
 
Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Option Plan (filed as Annex B to the Company’s Proxy Statement on Form 14a previously filed on May 31, 2001 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.8
 
 
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement pursuant to SeaChange’s Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 6, 2004 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.9
 
 
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement pursuant to SeaChange’s Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 6, 2004 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.10
 
 
1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 previously filed on November 4, 1996 with the Commission (File No. 333-12233) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.11
 
 
Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001, by and between Citizens Bank of Massachusetts and the Company (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q previously filed on December 13, 2001 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.12
 
 
Amendment No. 1, dated as of June 14, 2002, by and between the Company and Citizen’s Bank of Massachusetts, to that certain Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001, by and between the Company and Citizen’s Bank of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q previously filed on September 13, 2002 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.13
 
 
Amendment No. 2, dated as of April 21, 2003, between the Company and Citizen’s Bank of Massachusetts, to that certain Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001 by and between the Company and Citizen’s Bank of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed on May 1, 2003 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.14
 
 
Amendment No. 3, dated as of December 1, 2003, between the Company and Citizens Bank of Massachusetts, to that certain Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001 by and between the Company and Citizens Bank of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on December 15, 2003 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 

97
 

 


Exhibit No.
 
 
Description

10.15
 
 
Amendment No. 8, dated as of April 14, 2006, between the Company and Citizens Bank of Massachusetts, to that certain Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001, by and between the Company and Citizens Bank of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.15 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed on April 17, 2006 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.16
 
 
Amendment No. 12, dated as of August 17, 2007, between the Company and Citizens Bank of Massachusetts, to that certain Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001, by and between the Company and Citizens Bank of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q previously filed on April 17, 2006 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.17
 
 
Amendment No. 14, dated as of October 31, 2008, between the Company and RBS Citizens, to that certain Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001, by and between the Company and RBS Citizens (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q previously filed December 8, 2008 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.18
 
 

Amendment No. 17, dated as of October 29, 2010,
between the Company and Citizens Bank of Massachusetts, to that certain Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 22,
2001, by and between the Company and Citizens Bank of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q previously filed on December 10, 2010 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.19
 
 
Amended and Restated Change-in-Control Severance Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2009, by and between SeaChange and Steven M. Davi (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed December 21, 2009 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.20
 
 
Amended and Restated Change-in-Control Severance Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2009, by and between the Company and Ira Goldfarb (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 21, 2009 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.21
 
 
Amended and Restated Change-in-Control Severance Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2009, by and between the Company and William C. Styslinger, III (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed December 21, 2009 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.22
 
 
Amendment, dated as of June 1, 2010, by and between SeaChange International, Inc. and William C. Styslinger, III to the Amended and Restated Change-in-Control Severance Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2009, by and between SeaChange International, Inc. and William C. Styslinger, III (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed on June 1, 2010 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 

10.23
 
 
Executive Services Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2005, by and between On Demand Management Limited and Anthony Kelly (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed September 29, 2005 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

10.24
 
 
Settlement Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2010, by and among SeaChange International, Inc., Ramius LLC and the other parties set forth on the signature pages thereto (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed on December 16, 2010 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 


98
 

 


Exhibit No.
 
 
Description

10.25
 
 
Separation Agreement and Release of Claims, dated as of  November 30, 2011, by and between SeaChange International, Inc. and William C. Styslinger, III (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed on November 30, 2011 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.26
 
 
Change-In-Control Severance Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2012, by and between SeaChange International, Inc. and Michael Bornak (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed on January 20, 2012 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

10.27
 
 
Separation Agreement and Release of Claims, dated as of  February 23, 2012, by and between SeaChange International, Inc. and Yvette Kanouff (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K previously filed on February 23, 2012 with the Commission (File No. 000-21393) and incorporated herein by reference).

 
 
 
 

21.1*
 
 
List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

 
 
 
 

23.1*
 
 
Consent of Grant Thornton LLP.

 
 
 
 

24.1
 
 
Power of Attorney (included on signature page).

 
 
 
 

31.1*
 
 
Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 
 
 
 

31.2*
 
 
Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 
 
 
 

32.1*
 
 
Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 
 
 
 

32.2*
 
 
Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 
 
 
 

101.INS**
 
 
XBRL Instance Document

 
 
 
 

101.SCH**
 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema

 
 
 
 

101.CAL**
 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase

 
 
 
 

101.DEF**
 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase

 
 
 
 

101.LAB**
 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase

 
 
 
 

101.PRE**
 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase

 

 


*
 
Provided herewith.

**
 
Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.

 


99

 




