
10-K
1
v306079_10k.htm
ANNUAL REPORT FORM 10-K







UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
 

xANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011
 

¨TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ________ to ________
 
Commission File Number 0-29030
 
SUSSEX BANCORP
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 



New
        Jersey
 

22-3475473

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 



200 Munsonhurst Road 
Franklin, New Jersey 07416

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

 


(973) 827-2914

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

 
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:
 



Title
        of each class
 

Name of
        exchange on which registered

Common Stock, no par value
 
The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(g) of the Act: None
 

Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes  £ No 
x
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to
file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes  £
No  x

 
Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  
x No  ¨
  
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x
No  ¨

 
Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ¨
 
Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”
and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2  of the Exchange Act.
 



Large accelerated filer ¨
Accelerated filer ¨
Non-accelerated filer ¨
Smaller reporting company x

 

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 


  
Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes £
No x

 
Based upon the closing
price of $6.34 on June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates was
$17,626,546. The number of shares of the registrant’s common stock, no par value, outstanding as of March 5, 2012 was 3,404,289.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Portions of the Proxy Statement for the
2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.
 

 
 

 
INDEX 
 


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
i

 


PART I
1

 


 
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
1

 
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
6

 
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
10

 
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
10

 
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
10

 
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
1

 
 
 
 




PART II
11

 
 




 
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
11

 
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
12

 
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
13

 
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
29

 
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
29

 
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
29

 
ITEM  9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
29

 
ITEM  9B.
OTHER INFORMATION
30

 


PART III
 
31

 


 
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
31

 
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
31

 
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
    MATTERS
31

 
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
31

 
ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
31

 


PART IV
 
32

 


 
ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
32

 

 
 

 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
We may, from
time to time, make written or oral “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995, including statements contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”),
our reports to shareholders and in other communications by us. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking
statements” which may be identified by the use of such words as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,”
“should,” “planned,” “estimated,” and “potential.” Examples of forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to, estimates with respect to our financial condition, results of operation and business
that are subject to various factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from these estimates. These factors include,
but are not limited to:
 

§changes to interest rates, the ability to control costs and expenses;
 

§our ability to integrate new technology into its operations;
 

§general economic conditions;
 

§the success of our efforts to diversify its revenue base by developing additional sources of non-interest income while continuing
to manage its existing fee based business;
 

§the impact on us of the changing statutory and regulatory requirements; and
 

§the risks inherent in commencing operations in new markets.
 
Any or all of our forward-looking statements
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by
inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statements
can be guaranteed. We disclaim any obligation to subsequently revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
after the date of such statements, or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.
 
Unless the context indicates otherwise, all
references in this prospectus to “Sussex Bancorp,” “we,” “us,” “our company,” “corporation”
and “our” refer to Sussex Bancorp and its subsidiaries. References to the “Bank” are to Sussex Bank, our
wholly owned bank subsidiary.
 

i
 

 
 PART I
 



ITEM 1. 
BUSINESS


  
General
 
Sussex Bancorp is a bank holding company
incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in January 1996 and the parent company of Sussex Bank (the “Bank”).
Pursuant to the New Jersey Banking Act of 1948, as amended (the “Banking Act”), and pursuant to approval of the Board
of Directors of the Bank and shareholders of the Bank, Sussex Bancorp acquired the Bank and became its holding company on November
20, 1996. The only significant asset of Sussex Bancorp is its investment in the Bank. At December 31, 2011, the Company had consolidated
total assets of $507.0 million, loans of $339.7 million, deposits of $425.4 million and stockholders’ equity of $39.9 million.
 
The Bank is a commercial bank formed under
the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1975 and is regulated by New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance (the “Department”).
On October 1, 2001, the Bank acquired all of the outstanding stock of Tri-State Insurance Agency, Inc. (“Tri-State”).
Tri-State is a full service insurance agency located in Augusta, New Jersey.
 
The principal executive offices of the Company
are located at 200 Munsonhurst Road, Route 517, Franklin, New Jersey 07416, and the telephone number is (973) 827-2914.
 
Our Business
 
Our primary business is ownership and supervision
of the Bank. Through the Bank, we conduct a traditional commercial banking business, and offer services including personal and
business checking accounts and time deposits, money market accounts and savings accounts. We structure our specific services and
charges in a manner designed to attract the business of the small and medium sized business and professional community as well
as that of individuals residing, working and shopping in the northern New Jersey and Orange County, New York trade areas. We engage
in a wide range of lending activities and offer commercial, consumer, mortgage, home equity and personal loans.
 
Through the Bank’s subsidiary, Tri-State,
we operate a full service general insurance agency, offering both commercial and personal lines of insurance.
 
We have two business segments, banking and
financial services and insurance services. For financial data on the segments see Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements
located elsewhere in this report.
 
Market Area
 
Our service area primarily consists of Sussex
and Bergen Counties in New Jersey and Orange County, New York; although we make loans throughout New Jersey and the New York metropolitan
markets. We operate from our main office at 399 Route 23, Franklin, New Jersey, and our nine branch offices located in Andover,
Augusta, Montague, Newton, Sparta, Vernon, and Wantage, New Jersey, and in Port Jervis and Warwick, New York. In the fourth quarter
of 2011 we opened a loan production and insurance agency satellite office in Rochelle Park, New Jersey. Our market area is among
the most affluent in the nation.
 
Competition
 
We operate in a highly competitive environment
competing for deposits and loans with commercial banks, thrifts and other financial institutions, many of which have greater financial
resources than us. Many large financial institutions in New York City and other parts of New Jersey compete for the business of
customers located in our service area. Many of these institutions have significantly higher lending limits than us and provide
services to their customers which we do not offer.
 
Management believes we are able to compete
on a substantially equal basis with our competitors because we provide responsive personalized services through management’s
knowledge and awareness of our service area, customers and business.
 

1
 

 
Personnel
 
At December 31, 2011, we employed 116 full-time
employees and 21 part-time employees. None of these employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we believe that
our employee relations are good.
 
Regulation and Supervision
 
Bank holding companies and banks are extensively
regulated under both federal and state law. These laws and regulations are intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. Insurance
agencies licensed in New Jersey are regulated under state law by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. To the extent
that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the
particular statutory and regulatory provisions. Any change in the applicable law or regulation may have a material effect on the
business and prospects of the Company and the Bank.
 
Recent Legislative and Regulatory
Changes 
 
Major financial reform legislation was enacted
on July 21, 2010. This legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”),
makes sweeping changes to numerous sectors of the banking and financial industry. Among many other things, Dodd-Frank creates a
new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“CFPB”) within the Federal Reserve; provides for the Office of Thrift
Supervision to merge into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”); imposes clearing and margining requirements
on many derivatives activities; and generally increases oversight and regulation of financial institutions and financial activities. 
 
In addition to the self-implementing provisions
of the statute itself, Dodd-Frank calls for over 200 administrative rulemakings by various federal agencies to implement various
parts of the legislation, and numerous studies and reports.
 
Bank Holding Company Regulation
 
General. As a bank holding
company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), we are subject to the regulation
and supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”). We are required to file with the FRB
annual reports and other information regarding our business operations and those of our subsidiaries.
 
The BHCA requires, among other things, the
prior approval of the FRB in any case where a bank holding company proposes to (i) acquire all or substantially all of the assets
of any other bank, (ii) acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any
bank (unless it owns a majority of such bank's voting shares) or (iii) merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company.
The FRB will not approve any acquisition, merger, or consolidation that would have a substantially anti-competitive effect, unless
the anti-competitive impact of the proposed transaction is clearly outweighed by a greater public interest in meeting the convenience
and needs of the community to be served. The FRB also considers capital adequacy and the financial and managerial resources and
future prospects of the companies and the banks concerned, together with the convenience and needs of the community to be served
when reviewing acquisitions or mergers.
 
The BHCA also generally prohibits a bank
holding company, with certain limited exceptions, from (i) acquiring or retaining direct or indirect ownership or control of more
than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any company which is not a bank or bank holding company; or (ii) engaging directly or
indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or performing services for its subsidiaries,
unless such non-banking business is determined by the FRB to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks
as to be properly incident thereto. In making such determinations, the FRB is required to weigh the expected benefits to the public,
such as, greater convenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency, against the possible adverse effects, such as, undue
concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices.
 
Bank holding companies whose subsidiary
banks meet certain capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act standards, and which elect to become “financial holding
companies,” are permitted to engage in a substantially broader range of non-banking activities than is otherwise permissible
for bank holding companies under the BHCA. These activities include certain insurance, securities and merchant banking activities.
In addition, financial holding companies may often give after-the-fact notice for a variety of nonbank activities and acquisitions
rather than needing advance regulatory approval. As our business is currently limited to activities permissible for a bank, we
have not elected to become a financial holding company.
 

2
 

 
There are a number of obligations and restrictions
imposed on bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries by law and regulatory policy that are designed
to minimize potential loss to the depositors of such depository institutions and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)
insurance fund in the event the depository institution becomes in danger of default.
 
Source of Strength Doctrine.
Under long standing Federal Reserve policy which was codified under Dodd-Frank, a bank holding company, such as Sussex Bancorp,
is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to commit resources
to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy. The FRB also has the authority under
the BHCA to require a bank holding company to terminate any activity or to relinquish control of a non-bank subsidiary upon the
FRB’s determination that such activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability
of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company.
 
Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank
Holding Companies. The FRB has adopted risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for bank holding companies similar to
the capital requirements developed for banks discussed below. The risk-based capital guidelines are designed to make regulatory
capital requirements sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance
sheet exposure and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid, low-risk assets. The capital guidelines apply on a consolidated
basis to bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $500 million or more, and to certain bank holding companies with less
than $500 million in assets if they are engaged in substantial non-banking activity or meet certain other criteria. We did not
have a minimum consolidated risk-based or leverage capital requirement at the holding company level in 2011. 
Under Federal Reserve reporting requirements, a bank holding company that reaches $500 million or more in total consolidated
assets as of June 30 of the preceding year must begin reporting its consolidated capital beginning in March of the following year.
As of June 30, 2011, Sussex Bancorp’s total assets remained below $500 million, but exceeded $500 million as of December
31, 2011. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires depository institution holding companies with assets greater than $500 million to be
subject to capital requirements at least as stringent as to those applicable to insured depository institutions, meaning, for instance,
that such holding companies will no longer be able to count trust preferred securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 as Tier
1 capital. However, the Dodd-Frank Act allows for trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010, by depository institution
holding companies with total consolidated assets of less than $15 billion as of year-end 2009 to continue to count as Tier 1 capital.
Our trust preferred securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010.
 
Bank Regulation
 
As a New Jersey-chartered commercial bank,
the Bank is subject to the regulation, supervision, and enforcement authority of the Department and the FDIC. The regulations of
the FDIC and the Department impact virtually all activities of the Bank, including the minimum level of capital the Bank must maintain,
the ability of the Bank to pay dividends, the ability of the Bank to expand through new branches or acquisitions and various other
matters, including, but not limited to, those described below.
 
Insurance of Deposits 
 
The deposits of the Bank are insured up
to the applicable limits established by law and are subject to the deposit insurance premium assessments of the Deposit Insurance
Fund (“DIF”). Under Dodd-Frank, the standard deposit insurance amount has been permanently increased to $250,000. The
FDIC currently maintains a risk-based assessment system under which assessment rates vary based on the level of risk posed by the
institution to the DIF.
 
In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final
rule making certain changes to the deposit insurance assessment system, many of which were made as a result of provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule also revised the assessment rate schedule effective April 1, 2011, and adopts additional rate schedules
that will go into effect when the DIF reserve ratio reaches various milestones. The final rule changes the deposit insurance assessment
system from one that is based on domestic deposits to one that is based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible
equity. In addition, the rule suspends FDIC dividend payments if the DIF reserve ratio exceeds 1.5 percent at the end of any year,
but provides for decreasing assessment rates when the DIF reserve ratio reaches certain thresholds.
 

3
 

 
In calculating assessment rates, the rule
adopts a new “scorecard” assessment scheme for insured depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets.
It retains the risk category system for insured depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets, assigning each institution
to one of four risk categories based upon the institution’s capital evaluation and supervisory evaluation, as defined by
the rule.
 
The rule took effect for the quarter beginning
April 1, 2011, and was reflected in the invoices for assessments due September 30, 2011.
 
Dividend Rights
 
A Bank may declare and pay dividends only
if, after payment of the dividend, the capital stock of the Bank will be unimpaired and either the Bank will have a surplus of
not less than 50% of its capital stock or the payment of the dividend will not reduce the Bank’s surplus.
 
Transactions with Affiliates

 
The Bank’s authority to engage in
transactions with its affiliates is limited by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve Board’s
Regulation W. In general, these transactions must be on terms that are at least as favorable to the Bank as comparable transactions
with non-affiliates. In addition, certain types of these transactions are restricted to an aggregate percentage of the Bank’s
capital. Collateral in specified amounts must usually be provided by affiliates in order to receive loans from the Bank.
 
Loans to Insiders 
 
The Bank’s authority to extend credit
to its directors, executive officers and principal shareholders, as well as to entities controlled by such persons, is currently
governed by the requirements of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O of the Federal Reserve Board.
Among other things, these provisions require that extensions of credit to insiders: (i) be made on terms that are substantially
the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions
with unaffiliated persons and that do not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features;
and (ii) not exceed certain limitations on the amount of credit extended to such persons, individually and in the aggregate, which
limits are based, in part, on the amount of the Bank’s capital. In addition, the Bank’s Board of Directors must approve
extensions for credit in excess of certain limits.
 
Capital and Prompt Corrective Action

 
The federal banking agencies have established
by regulation, for each capital measure, the levels at which an insured institution is “well-capitalized,” “adequately
capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.”
Regulations require the Bank to meet the following standards in order to be “adequately capitalized”:
 

(1)have a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent or greater;
 

(2)have a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.0 percent or greater; and
 

(3)have a leverage ratio of 4.0 or greater or a leverage ratio of 3.0 percent or greater if the Bank is rated composite 1 under
the CAMELS rating system in the most recent examination of the Bank and is not experiencing or anticipating significant growth.
 
The federal banking agencies are required
to take prompt corrective action with respect to insured institutions that fall below the “adequately capitalized”
level. For example, generally, a bank is considered “well-capitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of
10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6%, and a leverage ratio of 5%, and is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital
directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. As of December
31, 2011, Bank’s capital exceeded well-capitalized levels.
 

4
 

 
Anti-Money-Laundering
 
We are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act,
as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, which gives the federal government powers to address money laundering and terrorist threats
through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, and mandatory transaction reporting obligations. For
example, the Bank Secrecy Act imposes an affirmative obligation on the Bank to report currency transactions that exceed certain
thresholds and to report other transactions determined to be suspicious. Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act takes measures intended
to encourage information sharing among financial institutions, bank regulatory agencies and law enforcement bodies. Further, certain
provisions of Title III impose affirmative obligations on a broad range of financial institutions, including banks, thrifts, brokers,
dealers, credit unions, money transfer agents and parties registered under the Commodity Exchange Act. Among other provisions,
the USA PATRIOT Act and the related regulations require banks operating in the United States to supplement and enhance the anti-money
laundering compliance programs, due diligence policies and controls required by the Bank Secrecy Act and Office of Foreign Assets
Control regulations to ensure the detection and reporting of money laundering.
 
Consumer Compliance
 
We are subject to numerous laws, regulations
and policies regarding consumer protection. These include the Truth in Lending Act; the Truth in Savings Act; the Equal Credit
Opportunity Act; Home Mortgage Disclosure Act; the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act; the privacy and data security provisions
of GLBA; the Fair Credit Reporting Act; the Expedited Funds Availability Act; the Electronic Fund Transfer Act; and Section 5 of
the Federal Trade Commission Act, which prohibits unfair or deceptive acts or practices.
 
Community Reinvestment
 
Under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”),
as implemented by Regulation BB, the Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound banking practices,
to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low-and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish
specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop
the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, so long as such practices are
consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires that regulators, in connection with their examination of banks, assess each bank’s
record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such record into account in evaluating certain applications by
those banks.
 
The Bank received a “Satisfactory”
Community Reinvestment Act rating in its most recent examination.
 
Available Information
 
We file annual reports, quarterly reports,
proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street,
N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling
the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the
SEC at www.sec.gov.
 
We maintain a website at www.sussexbank.com.
Through a link to our Investor Relations section of our website, we make available, free of charge, copies of each of our filings
with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and,
if applicable, any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.
 


5
 

  




ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS


 

Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover
actual losses. 
 


Like all financial institutions, we maintain
an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate
to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations.
Risks within the loan portfolio are analyzed on a continuous basis by management and, periodically, by an independent loan review
function and by the Board of Directors. A risk system, consisting of multiple-grading categories, is utilized as an analytical
tool to assess risk and the appropriate level of loss reserves. Along with the risk system, management further evaluates risk characteristics
of the loan portfolio under current economic conditions and considers such factors as the financial condition of the borrowers,
past and expected loan loss experience and other factors management feels deserve recognition in establishing an adequate reserve.
This risk assessment process is performed at least quarterly and as adjustments become necessary, they are realized in the periods
in which they become known. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions,
including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. State and federal
regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and have
in the past required an increase in our allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate
to cover probable and reasonably estimated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan
losses or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect
our earnings.
 
Our non-performing assets have substantially increased
over the past four years, and this has, and will continue, to affect our results of operations. 
 
Our total non-performing assets have increased
to $34.0 million, or 6.7% of our total assets at December 31, 2011, from $13.5 million, or 3.4% of our total assets at December
31, 2007 and has increased 28.6% from December 31, 2010. The increase in non-performing assets reflects difficulties experienced
by borrowers due to declining real estate values and the general slowdown in the economy in our trade area. The increase in non-performing
assets has negatively impacted our results of operations, through additional provisions for loan losses, reduced interest income,
loan collection costs, expenses related to foreclosed real estate, further write-downs on foreclosed real estate and will continue
to impact our performance until these assets are resolved. In addition, future increases in our non-performing assets will further
negatively affect our results of operations. We can give you no assurance that our non-performing assets will not increase further.
 
 
Our earnings may not grow if we are unable to successfully
attract core deposits and lending opportunities and exploit opportunities to generate fee-based income. 
 
We have experienced growth, and our future
business strategy is to continue to expand. Historically, the growth of our loans and deposits has been the principal factor in
our increase in net-interest income. In the event that we are unable to execute our business strategy of continued growth in loans
and deposits, our earnings could be adversely impacted. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand
our market share, to successfully attract core deposits and identify loan and investment opportunities, as well as opportunities
to generate fee-based income. Our ability to manage growth successfully will also depend on whether we can continue to efficiently
fund asset growth and maintain asset quality and cost controls, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions
and interest-rate trends.
 
Market conditions may adversely affect our fee based insurance
business. 
 
The revenues of our fee based insurance
business are derived primarily from commissions from the sale of insurance policies, which commissions are generally calculated
as a percentage of the policy premium. These insurance policy commissions can fluctuate as insurance carriers from time to time
increase or decrease the premiums on the insurance products we sell.
 

6
 

 
Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results
of operations and financial condition.
 
Our profitability, like
that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest
income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest
rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market
interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease
of our net interest income.
 
We also are subject to
reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and
mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities
as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent
that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans
and securities.
 
Certain of our intangible assets may become impaired in
the future.
 
Intangible assets are tested for impairment
on a periodic basis. Impairment testing incorporates the current market price of our common stock, the estimated fair value of
our assets and liabilities, and certain information of similar companies. It is possible that future impairment testing could result
in a decline in value of our intangibles, which may be less than the carrying value, which may adversely affect our financial condition.
If we determine that impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangibles will
be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the results of impairment testing on our intangible
assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels.
 
We are subject to extensive government regulation and
supervision.
 
We are subject to extensive
federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal
deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital
structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress, the State of New Jersey and federal
regulatory agencies continually review banking and insurance laws, regulations and policies for areas warranting changes. Changes
to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations
or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the
types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services
and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory
agencies, civil money penalties, private lawsuits, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations,
there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision”
in Item 1. Business, which is located elsewhere in this report.
 
Compliance with the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act will
alter the regulatory regime to which we are subject, and may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our business.

 
On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed
the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial-services
industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, “CFPB”, as an
independent bureau of the Federal Reserve, tightens capital standards, imposes clearing and margining requirements on many derivatives
activities, and generally increases oversight and regulation of financial institutions and financial activities. It requires depository
institution holding companies with assets greater than $500 million to be subject to capital requirements at least as stringent
as to those applicable to insured depository institutions, meaning, for instance, that such holding companies will no longer be
able to count trust preferred securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 as Tier 1 capital. However, the Dodd-Frank Act allows
for trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010, by depository institution holding companies with total consolidated
assets of less than $15 billion as of year-end 2009 to continue to count as Tier 1 capital. Our trust preferred securities were
issued prior to May 19, 2010.
  
In addition to the self-implementing provisions
of the statute, the Dodd-Frank Act calls for over 200 administrative rulemakings by various federal agencies to implement various
parts of the legislation. While some rules have been finalized and/or issued in proposed form, many have yet to be proposed. It
is impossible to predict when all such additional rules will be issued or finalized, and what the content of such rules will be.
We will have to apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any
implementing rules, which may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings.
 

7
 

 
On July 21, 2010, the CFPB began operations,
and has the authority to write regulations in numerous areas affecting our business. We cannot predict at this time what new regulations
may be proposed or finalized. We will have to apply resources to prepare for these new regulations.
 
The Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing
rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and our
ability to conduct business.
 
We cannot predict the effect on our operations of any
future legislative or regulatory initiatives. 
 
We cannot predict what, if any, additional
legislative or regulatory initiatives any governmental entity may undertake in the future, and what, if any, effects such initiatives
may have on our operations. The U.S. federal, state and foreign governments have taken or are considering extraordinary actions
in an attempt to ameliorate the worldwide financial crisis and the severe decline in the global economy, and to make further reforms
to the U.S. financial services system. Further, there can be no assurance that any initiative enacted or adopted in response to
the ongoing economic crisis will be effective at dealing with the ongoing economic crisis and improving economic conditions globally,
nationally or in our markets, or that any such initiative will not have adverse consequences to us.
 
There is a risk that we may not be repaid in a timely
manner, or at all, for loans we make. 
 
The risk of non-payment (or deferred or
delayed payment) of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such non-payment, or delayed or deferred payment of loans to us, if
they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Additionally, in compliance with
applicable banking laws and regulations, we maintain an allowance for loan losses created through charges against earnings. As
of December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses was $7.2 million. Our marketing focus on small to medium-size businesses may
result in the assumption by us of certain lending risks that are different from or greater than those which would apply to loans
made to larger companies. We seek to minimize our credit risk exposure through credit controls, which include evaluation of potential
borrowers’ available collateral, liquidity and cash flow. However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will actually
reduce loan losses.
 
We are in competition with many other financial service
providers, including larger commercial banks which have greater resources than us. 
 
The banking industry within our trade area
is highly competitive. Our principal market area is also served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions.
In addition, in 1999 the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 was passed into law. The Modernization Act permits
other financial entities, such as insurance companies and securities firms, to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby
further increasing competition. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to expend upon advertising
and marketing, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans. Our success depends upon
our ability to serve small business clients in a more responsive manner than the large and mid-size financial institutions against
whom we compete in our principal market area. In addition to competition from larger institutions, we also face competition for
individuals and small businesses from recently formed banks seeking to compete as “home town” institutions. Most of
these new institutions have focused their marketing efforts on the smaller end of the small business market we serve.
 
The laws that regulate our operations are designed for
the protection of depositors and the public, but not our shareholders. 
 
The federal and state laws and regulations
applicable to our operations give regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement
responsibilities and generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the deposit insurance funds and to foster economic
growth and not for the purpose of protecting stockholders. These laws and regulations can materially affect our future business.
Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory
authorities is also subject to change. We can give no assurance that future changes in laws and regulations or changes in their
interpretation will not adversely affect our business.
 

8
 

 
We depend on our executive
officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of
their services.
 
We believe that our continued
growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel
in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain
and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing
key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. We have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, Chief Lending Officer, Chief Retail Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Tri-State Insurance Agency, and the
loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop
our business strategy.
 
Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect
our loan portfolio. 
 
Our success depends to a great extent upon
the general economic conditions of the local markets that we serve. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified,
we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in the two counties in the New Jersey and New York markets in
which we have branches, so any decline in the economy of this specific region could have an adverse impact on us.
 
The ability of our borrowers
to repay their loans, our financial results, the credit quality of our existing loan portfolio, and the ability to generate new
loans with acceptable yield and credit characteristics may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions,
including declines in real estate values, changes in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and the monetary and fiscal
policies of the federal government. We cannot assure you that continued negative trends or developments would not have a significant
adverse effect on us.
 
The nationwide recession may adversely affect our business
by reducing real estate values in our trade area and stressing the ability of our customers to repay their loans. 
 
Our trade area, like the rest of the United
States, is currently experiencing economic contraction. As a result, many companies have experienced reduced revenues and have
laid off employees. These factors have stressed the ability on both commercial and consumer customers to repay their loans, and
have, and may in the future continue to, result in higher levels of non-accrual loans. In addition, real estate values have declined
in our trade area. Since the majority of our loans are secured by real estate, declines in the market value of real estate impact
the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could lead to greater losses in the event of defaults on loans secured by real
estate.  
 
We cannot predict how changes in technology will impact
our business.
  
The financial services market, including
banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: telecommunications; data processing;
automation; internet-based banking; telephone banking; and debit cards and so-called “smart cards.”
 
Our ability to compete successfully in the
future will depend on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes. To develop these and other new technologies,
we will likely have to make additional capital investments. Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot assure
you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future.
 
Our information systems may experience an interruption
or breach in security. 
 
We rely heavily on communications and information
systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions
in our customer-relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures
designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be
no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur; or, if they do occur, that they will be
adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage
our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation
and possible financial liability; any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
 

9
 

 


 


ITEM 1B. 
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

 
Not applicable.
 


ITEM 2. 
PROPERTIES

 
We conduct our business through our principal
executive office located at 200 Munsonhurst Road, Route 517, Franklin, New Jersey, our ten banking offices, one loan production
office, and our insurance agency office. The following table sets forth certain information regarding our properties as of December
31, 2011. All properties are adequately covered by insurance.
 




 
LOCATION

 

 
LEASED OR OWNED

 

DATE
        OF
LEASE EXPIRATION


399 Route 23
Franklin, New Jersey
 

 
Owned
 

 
N/A


7 Church Street
Vernon, New Jersey
 

 
Owned
 

 
N/A


266 Clove Road
Montague, New Jersey
 

 
Leased
 

 
March, 2012


96 Route 206
Augusta, New Jersey
 

 
Leased
 

 
July, 2015


378 Route 23
Wantage, New Jersey
 

 
Owned
 

 
N/A


455 Route 23
Wantage, New Jersey
 

 
Owned (1)
 

 
N/A


15 Trinity Street
Newton, New Jersey
 

 
Owned
 

 
N/A


165 Route 206
Andover, New Jersey
 

 
Owned
 

 
N/A


100 Route 206
Augusta, New Jersey
 

 
Owned
 

 
N/A


33 Main Street
Sparta, New Jersey
 

 
Owned
 

 
N/A


200 Munsonhurst Road
Franklin, New Jersey
 

 
Leased
 

 
December, 2013


20-22 Fowler Street
Port Jervis, New York
 

 
Leased
 

 
June, 2016


65-67 Main Street
Warwick, New York
 

 
Leased
 

 
December, 2013


201 West Passaic Street
Rochelle Park, New Jersey
 

 
Leased
 

 
October, 2015


 

(1)We own the building housing our former Wantage branch. The land on which the building is located is leased pursuant to a ground
lease which runs until December 31, 2020, and contains an option for us to extend the lease for an additional 25 year term.
 


ITEM 3. 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

 
We are periodically involved in various
legal proceedings as a normal incident to our business. In the opinion of management no material loss is expected from any such
pending lawsuit.
 


ITEM 4. 
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

 
None.
 

10
 

 
PART II
 


ITEM 5. 
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

 
Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global
Market, under the symbol “SBBX.” As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 702 holders of record.
 
The following table shows the high and low
sales price during the periods indicated, as well as dividends declared:
 


2011 
High  
Low  
Cash Dividends Declared 

Fourth Quarter ended December 31 
$5.50  
$4.14  
 – 

Third Quarter ended September 30 
$6.97  
$4.10  
 – 

Second Quarter ended June 30 
$7.00  
$5.85  
 – 

First Quarter ended March 31 
$7.64  
$5.51  
 – 

 


2010 
High  
Low  
Cash Dividends Declared 

Fourth Quarter ended December 31 
$6.08  
$4.90  
 – 

Third Quarter ended September 30 
$5.80  
$4.38  
 – 

Second Quarter ended June 30 
$6.70  
$5.15  
 – 

First Quarter ended March 31 
$5.70  
$3.00  
 – 

 
The payment of dividends depends upon our
debt and equity structure, earnings, financial condition, need for capital in connection with possible future acquisitions and
other factors, including economic conditions, regulatory restrictions and tax considerations. We cannot guarantee the payment of
dividends.
 
The only funds available for the payment
of dividends on our capital stock will be cash and cash equivalents held by us, dividends paid to us by the Bank, and borrowings.
The Bank will be prohibited from paying cash dividends to us to the extent that any such payment would reduce the Bank’s
capital below required capital levels. See “Bank Holding Company Regulation – Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank
Holding Companies” and “Bank Regulation” for a discussion of these restrictions. For additional information see
Note 19 in our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report.


There were no sales by us of unregistered
securities during the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
The following table sets forth information
with respect to purchases made by us of our common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2011.
 


Period 
Total Number of Shares Purchased  
Average Price Paid per Share ($)  
Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs  
Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (1) 

October 1 - 31, 2011 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 152,658 

November 1 - 30, 2011 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 152,658 

December 1 - 31, 2011 
 64  
 4.40  
 -  
 152,594 

Total 
 64  
 4.40  
 -  
 152,594 

  

 


(1)In April of 1999, the Board of Directors initially approved a repurchase program (“Repurchase Program”), authorizing
us to repurchase 50,000 shares of our outstanding shares of common stock. Subsequently, the Board of Directors increased the shares
authorized under the Repurchase Program four times to a total of 400,000 shares. The Repurchase Program will continue until it
is completed and has no expiration date. The repurchases may be made from time to time at the discretion of management.
 

11
 

 


ITEM 6. 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

 
The following selected financial data as
of December 31 for each of the five years should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and
the accompanying notes.
 



(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)  
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

SUMMARY OF INCOME: 
    
    
    
    
   

Interest income 
$21,340  
$22,028  
$23,055  
$22,653  
$22,808 

Interest expense 
 4,427  
 5,613  
 8,053  
 10,843  
 11,387 

Net interest income 
 16,913  
 16,415  
 15,002  
 11,810  
 11,421 

Provision for loan losses 
 3,306  
 3,280  
 3,404  
 1,350  
 1,930 

Net interest income after provision for loan losses 
 13,607  
 13,135  
 11,598  
 10,460  
 9,491 

Other income 
 5,283  
 4,611  
 5,544  
 1,991  
 5,616 

Other expenses 
 15,783  
 15,028  
 14,679  
 14,589  
 13,148 

Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 
 3,107  
 2,718  
 2,463  
 (2,138) 
 1,959 

Income tax expense (benefit) 
 637  
 542  
 452  
 (1,096) 
 450 

Net income (loss) 
$2,470  
$2,176  
$2,011  
$(1,042) 
$1,509 

  
    
    
    
    
   

WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES(1): 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
 3,256,183  
 3,249,706  
 3,247,723  
 3,291,710  
 3,354,828 

Diluted 
 3,327,379  
 3,299,369  
 3,258,549  
 3,291,710  
 3,385,052 

  
    
    
    
    
   

PER SHARE DATA: 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic earnings (loss) per share 
$0.76  
$0.67  
$0.62  
$(0.32) 
$0.45 

Diluted earnings (loss) per share 
 0.74  
 0.66  
 0.62  
 (0.32) 
 0.45 

Cash dividends(2) 
 –  
 –  
 0.03  
 0.20  
 0.26 

Stock dividends 
 –  
 –  
 –  
 6.5% 
 – 

  
    
    
    
    
   

BALANCE SHEET: 
    
    
    
    
   

Loans, net 
$332,495  
$331,837  
$327,463  
$315,067  
$295,506 

Total assets 
 506,953  
 474,024  
 454,841  
 440,595  
 393,532 

Total deposits 
 425,376  
 385,967  
 372,075  
 360,081  
 308,538 

Total stockholders’ equity 
 39,902  
 36,666  
 34,527  
 31,910  
 34,440 

Average assets 
 483,627  
 477,739  
 463,616  
 419,725  
 379,155 

Average stockholders’ equity 
 38,369  
 35,999  
 33,390  
 33,699  
 35,046 

  
    
    
    
    
   

PERFORMANCE RATIOS: 
    
    
    
    
   

Return on average assets 
 0.51% 
 0.46% 
 0.43% 
 (0.25)% 
 0.40%

Return on average stockholders’ equity 
 6.44% 
 6.04% 
 6.02% 
 (3.09)% 
 4.31%

Average equity/average assets 
 7.93% 
 7.54% 
 7.20% 
 8.03% 
 9.24%

Net interest margin 
 3.87% 
 3.81% 
 3.60% 
 3.12% 
 3.31%

Efficiency ratio(3) 
 71.11% 
 71.47% 
 71.44% 
 105.71% 
 77.17%

Other income to net interest income plus other income 
 23.80% 
 21.93% 
 26.98% 
 14.43% 
 32.96%

Dividend payout ratio 
 –  
 –  
 5% 
 (63)% 
 58%

  
    
    
    
    
   

BANK CAPITAL RATIOS: 
    
    
    
    
   

Tier I capital to average assets 
 9.29% 
 9.04% 
 9.07% 
 8.59% 
 7.72%

Tier I capital to total risk-weighted assets 
 13.05% 
 12.37% 
 11.91% 
 11.04% 
 9.66%

Total capital to total risk-weighted assets 
 14.31% 
 13.63% 
 13.17% 
 12.29% 
 10.91%

  
    
    
    
    
   

ASSET QUALITY RATIOS: 
    
    
    
    
   

Non-accrual loans to total gross loans 
 7.15% 
 6.71% 
 6.07% 
 3.04% 
 4.09%

Non-performing assets to total assets(4) 
 6.71% 
 5.58% 
 6.01% 
 3.41% 
 3.42%

Net loan charge-offs to average total loans 
 0.73% 
 0.72% 
 1.14% 
 0.22% 
 0.05%

Allowance for loan losses to total gross loans at period end 
 2.12% 
 1.89% 
 1.65% 
 1.81% 
 1.71%

Allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans(4) 
 26.03% 
 26.60% 
 23.39% 
 52.62% 
 38.14%

   
 


(1)The weighted average number of shares outstanding was computed based on the average number of shares outstanding during each
period as adjusted for subsequent stock dividends.

(2)Cash dividends per common share are based on the actual number of common shares outstanding on the dates of record as adjusted
for subsequent stock dividends.

(3)Efficiency ratio is total other expenses divided by net interest income and total other income.

(4)Non-performing loans includes non-accrual loans, loans past due 90 days and still accruing and troubled debt restructured loans
still accruing.
 

12
 

 


ITEM 7. 
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

 
Overview
 
We are a community bank primarily operating
in Sussex and Bergen Counties in New Jersey and Orange County, New York that provides diversified financial services to both consumer
and business customers. Our primary source of revenues, approximately 76%, is derived from net interest income which represents
the difference between the interest we earn on our assets, principally loans and investment securities, and interest we pay on
our deposits and borrowings. When expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets, it is referred to as net interest
margin (“margin”). We augment our primary revenue source through non-interest income sources that include insurance
commissions from our wholly owned subsidiary, Tri-State Insurance Agency, Inc. (“Tri-State”), service charges on deposits,
bank-owned life insurance (“BOLI”) income and commissions on mutual funds and annuities. In addition, we from time
to time may recognize income on gains on sales of securities; however, we do not consider this a primary source of income, as
we no longer have a securities trading portfolio.
  
For 2011, we saw some signs of stabilization in the United States economy and
improvements over the preceding two years; however, the United States economy remains relatively weak as unemployment levels are
high and real estate markets have been adversely impacted over the past three years. Real estate is typically the main form of
collateral for community bank lending. We have has also been affected by the weakened economy and the deterioration in the real
estate market which is reflected in the credit quality of our loan portfolio. We have also experienced a significant increase
in credit related costs over the last three years. During 2010 and 2011, we made considerable changes in executive and senior
management and continue to make strides in controlling and mitigating our credit quality issues. During 2011, our credit quality
metrics have shown some signs of stabilizing; however, we remain cautiously optimistic for continued improving trends. Despite
the level of non-performing assets and the increased credit quality costs, we reported a 13.5% increase in earnings from last
year with a return on average assets of 0.51% and earnings of $2.5 million, which matched our historical high in 2006.
 
Our net income increased 13.5% to $2.5 million,
or $0.74 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2011 over the same period in 2010. We attributed the increase in net
income to growth in non-interest income and net interest income, which was partly offset by higher non-interest expenses.
 
2011 Highlights
 

·Net interest income (tax equivalent basis) increased $548 thousand, or 3.2%, to $17.5 million in 2011.
 

·Net interest margin (tax equivalent basis) was 3.87% for 2011, up from 3.81% in 2010. The improvement was driven
by a 30 basis point reduction in funding costs for 2011.
 

·Provision for loan losses increased $26 thousand, or 0.8%, to $3.3 million for 2011 as compared to 2010.
 

·Non-interest income increased $672 thousand, or 14.6%, to $5.3 million for 2011. The increase was driven by higher
gains on the sales of securities and insurance commissions and fees, which grew by $593 thousand and $199 thousand, respectively,
for 2011 as compared to 2010. Lower service charges on deposits of $116 thousand for 2011 partly offset the aforementioned increases.
 

·Non-interest expense increased $755 thousand, or 5.0%, to $15.8 million for 2011. The increase was largely attributed
to higher employee related costs of $745 thousand, resulting from a 6.3% increase in salary expense and a 26.7% increase in benefit
costs, and higher loan collection costs of $322 thousand. The aforementioned increases were in partly offset by a decline in FDIC
assessments of $211 thousand.
 

·Segment reporting
 

oOur insurance subsidiary, Tri-State, reported net income before taxes of $152 thousand for 2011 as compared to a $68 thousand
net loss before taxes for the same period last year.
 

·Balance sheet
 

oTotal assets increased 6.9% as compared to last year, from $474.0 million at December 31, 2010 to $507.0 million at December
31, 2011. 
   


oGross loans at December 31, 2011 were $339.7 million, an increase of $1.5 million over prior year-end.
 

oTotal deposits increased $39.4 million, or 10.2%, as core deposits increased $20.9 million, or 7.1%, and time deposits grew
by $18.5 million, or 20.0%, over last year.
 

13
 

 

·Credit quality 
 

oTotal classified/criticized/foreclosed assets declined $8.8 million, or 15.1%, to $49.6 million at December 31, 2011 from $58.4
million at December 31, 2010 and have declined 21.0% from a historical high of $62.8 million at March 31, 2010.
 

oNon-performing assets were slightly down on a linked quarter basis; however, non-performing assets increased $7.6 million,
or 28.6%, for December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010. Non-performing assets as a percent of total assets were 6.7%
and 5.6% at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.
 

oThe allowance for loan losses totaled $7.2 million at December 31, 2011, or 2.12% of total loans, as compared to $6.4 million,
or 1.89% of total loans, at December 31, 2010.
 

·Capital adequacy
 

oAt December 31, 2011, the leverage, Tier I risk-based capital and total risk based capital ratios for the Bank were 9.29%,
13.05% and 14.31%, respectively, all in excess of the ratios required to be deemed “well-capitalized.”
  
The following discussion is intended to assist in understanding
our financial condition and results of operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes contained elsewhere in this report.
 
Management Strategy
 
Our goal is to serve as a community-oriented
financial institution serving northern New Jersey, northeastern Pennsylvania and the Orange County, New York marketplace. While
offering traditional community bank loan and deposit products and services, we obtain significant non-interest income through Tri-State’s
insurance brokerage operations and the sale of non-deposit products. We report the operations of Tri-State as a separate segment
from our commercial banking operations. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report
for additional information regarding our two segments.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
Our accounting policies are fundamental
to understanding Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our accounting policies
are more fully described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. The preparation
of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to
make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes. Since future events and their effect cannot be determined with absolute certainty, actual results may differ
from those estimates. Management makes adjustments to its assumptions and judgments when facts and circumstances dictate. The amounts
currently estimated by us are subject to change if different assumptions as to the outcome of future events were made. We evaluate
our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances. Management believes the following critical accounting policies encompass the more significant judgments and estimates
used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses. The
provision for loan losses charged to operating expense reflects the amount deemed appropriate by management to provide for known
and inherent losses in the existing loan portfolio. Management’s judgment is based on the evaluation of the past experience
of individual loans, the assessment of current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. Loan losses are charged directly
against the allowance for loan losses and recoveries on previously charged-off loans are added to the allowance. Management uses
significant estimates to determine the allowance for loan losses. Consideration is given to a variety of factors in establishing
these estimates including current economic conditions, diversification of the loan portfolio, delinquency statistics, borrowers’
perceived financial and managerial strengths, the adequacy of underlying collateral, if collateral dependent, or present value
of future cash flows, and other relevant factors. Since the sufficiency of the allowance for loan losses is dependent to a great
extent on conditions that may be beyond our control, it is possible that management’s estimates of the allowance for loan
losses and actual results could differ in the near term. Although we believe that we use the best information available to establish
the allowance for loan losses, future additions to the allowance may be necessary if certain future events occur that cause actual
results to differ from the assumptions used in making the evaluation. For example, a downturn in the local economy could cause
increases in non-performing loans. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could cause some of our loans to become inadequately
collateralized. In either case, this may require us to increase our provisions for loan losses, which would negatively impact earnings.
Additionally, a large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would
negatively impact earnings. Finally, regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their examination, periodically review the
allowance for loan losses. They may require additions to the allowance for loan losses based upon their judgments about information
available to them at the time of examination. Future increases to our allowance for loan losses, whether due to unexpected changes
in economic conditions or otherwise, could adversely affect our future results of operations.
 

14
 

 
Appraisal Policy. We
have a detailed policy covering the real estate appraisal process, including the selection of qualified appraisers, review of appraisal
reports upon receipt, and complying with the federal regulatory standards that govern the minimum requirements for obtaining appraisals
or evaluations. Appraisals and evaluations are considered to be current when the valuation date is within 12 months of a new loan
or 24 months of any renewal of an existing loan, provided that certain conditions are met.  The appraisal is not considered
to be current if there has been a substantial change in value, demand, supply or competitive factors.
 
The following types of transactions require
a real estate appraisal:
 

·Non-residential transactions when the transaction value exceeds $250,000.
 

·Loan transactions in which real estate is used as the primary security for the loan, regardless of the type of loan (commercial,
installment or mortgage), including:
 

§New loans, loan modifications, loan extensions and renewals, provided that certain conditions are met.
 

§The purchase, sale, exchange or investment in real property or an interest in real property where the “transaction value”
of the real property interest exceeds $250,000.
 

§The long-term lease of real estate, which is the economic equivalent of a purchase or sale where the “transaction value”
of the real property interest exceeds $250,000.
 

·Purchase of a loan or pool of loans, or participation therein, or of an interest in real property, providing that any individual
loan or property interest exceeds $250,000, and further provided that a satisfactory appraisal of the property relating to that
loan or interest has not been made available to the Bank by another party to the transaction.
  
The need for real estate appraisals applies
to initial loan underwriting and subsequently when the value of the real estate collateral might be materially affected by changing
market conditions, changes in the occupancy of the property, changes in cash flow generated by the property, changes in the physical
conditions of the property, or other factors.  These factors include changes in the sales prices of comparable properties,
absorption rates, capitalization rates, effective rental rates and current construction costs.
 
Real estate appraisals are not required
for the following transactions: 
 

·New loans, loan modifications, loan extensions and renewals with real property interest value of $250,000 or less.
 

·Purchase, sale, exchange, long-term lease or investment in real property where the “transaction value” of the real
property interest does not exceed $250,000.
 

·Renewal or extension of an existing loan in excess of $250,000 provided that certain conditions are met.
 

·Purchase of a loan or pool of loans, or participation therein, or of an interest in real property where a satisfactory appraisal
of the property relating to that loan or interest has been made available to the Bank by another federally insured depository institution
that is subject to Title XI of Financial Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA).
 
While real estate appraisals are not required
for transactions of $250,000 or less, we will consider obtaining one if the orderly liquidation of the collateral is the primary
source of repayment.  To the extent that an appraisal is not required for a real estate collateralized transaction, we will
obtain for its credit files another acceptable form of valuation, i.e. equalized value with a reasonable market relevance or evaluation.
 

15
 

 
Additionally, real estate appraisals are
not required on transactions over $250,000 when taking a lien on real property as collateral solely through an “abundance
of caution,” and where the terms of the transaction have not been made more favorable than would have been in the absence
of the mortgage lien.  In determining whether an appraisal can be waived due to this reason,
approval must be obtained from our Chief Credit Officer.
 
Generally, we obtain updated appraisals
for real estate loan renewals and modifications or certain classified loans depending on the age of the last appraisal, volatility
of the local market, and other factors. In certain circumstances, if we can support an appraisal that is greater than one year
old with an evaluation, utilizing current information, including, but not limited to, current comparable sales, independent appraisal,
consultant data or tax assessment values, then it may continue to use the existing appraisal. For classified/criticized loans,
when it is determined that a deficiency exists utilizing the above evaluation methods, a new appraisal will be ordered.
 
Stock Compensation Plans. We
currently have a stock plan in place for our employees and directors. We account for stock-based compensation under the accounting
guidance of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718,
Compensation-Stock Compensation, which requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions
be recognized in financial statements. The stock compensation accounting guidance requires that compensation cost for all stock
awards be calculated and recognized over predefined vesting periods.
 
Income Taxes. Management considers
accounting for income taxes as a critical accounting policy due to the subjective nature of certain estimates that are involved
in the calculation and evaluation of the timing and recognition of resulting tax assets and liabilities. Management uses the asset
liability method of accounting for income taxes in which deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for the temporary
differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. Deferred tax expense is the
result of changes between deferred tax assets and liabilities. The principal types of differences between assets and liabilities
for financial statement and tax return purposes are allowance for loan losses, deferred compensation and securities available for
sale.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
We have recorded goodwill of $2.8 million at December 31, 2011 primarily related to the acquisition of Tri-State in October
of 2001. FASB ASC 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Others, requires that goodwill is not amortized to expense, but rather that
it be tested for impairment at least annually. We periodically assess whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amounts of goodwill require additional impairment testing. We perform our annual impairment test on the goodwill of
Tri-State in the fourth quarter of each calendar year. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the book value, no write-downs
of goodwill are necessary. If the fair value is less than the book value, an additional test is necessary to assess the proper
carrying value of goodwill. We determined that no impairment write-offs were necessary during 2011 and 2010.
 
Business unit valuation is inherently subjective,
with a number of factors based on assumptions and management judgments. Among these are future growth rates, discount rates and
earnings capitalization rates. Changes in assumptions and results due to economic conditions, industry factors and reporting unit
performance could result in different assessments of the fair value and could result in impairment charges in the future.
 
Investment Securities Impairment Evaluation.
Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment on at least a quarterly basis, and more frequently when
economic or market concerns warrant such evaluation. Consideration is given to (1) the length of time and the extent to which the
fair value has been less than cost, (2) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and (3) if we do not intend
to sell the security, and it is more likely than not that we will not have to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis,
we will recognize the credit component of an other-than-temporary impairment of the security in earnings and the remaining portion
in other comprehensive income. For held to maturity securities, the amount of an other-than-temporary impairment recorded in other
comprehensive income for the noncredit portion of a previous other-than-temporary impairment should be amortized prospectively
over the remaining life of the security on the basis of the timing of future estimated cash flows of the security. No held to maturity
securities at December 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010 were deemed to be impaired. We did recognize other-than-temporary impairment
charges in 2011 and 2010 of $231 thousand and $171 thousand, respectively, on certain available for sale equity securities.
 

16
 

 
During the fourth quarter of 2011, we recognized
a $231 thousand pre-tax ($183 thousand after-tax, or $0.06 per share) non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge related to
an equity portfolio fund that had an amortized cost of $250 thousand with a termination date of December 31, 2012 and an equity
security that had an amortized cost of $230 thousand. An impairment charge of $144 thousand on an equity portfolio fund was recognized
because the market value of this security was below our amortized cost for an extended period of time along with credit deterioration
in some of the underlying collateral and it was not believed the market value of this security would recover to our amortized cost
before its termination in December 2012. The fund was comprised of private and public stocks of bank holding companies. An impairment
charge of $87 thousand on an equity security of a bank holding company was recognized because the market value of this security
was below our amortized cost for an extended period of time and it was not believed the market value of this security would recover
to our amortized cost in the foreseeable future.
 
During the second quarter of 2010, we recognized
a $171 thousand pre-tax ($113 thousand after-tax, or $0.03 per share) non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge related to
an equity portfolio fund that had an amortized cost of $250 thousand and a termination date of October 22, 2010. The impairment
was recognized because the market value of this security was below our amortized cost for an extended period of time along with
credit deterioration in some of the underlying collateral and it was not believed the market value of this security would recover
to our amortized cost before its termination in October 2010. The fund was comprised of common stocks of bank holding companies.
Management executed a redemption-in-kind provision for this investment prior to its termination date. We received our pro-rata
share of the 17 underlying equity securities totaling $76 thousand. The securities were recorded at market value resulting in an
additional $3 thousand pre-tax charge related to the exchange.
 
COMPARISON OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AT YEAR-END DECEMBER 31,
2011 AND 2010
 
At December 31, 2011, we had total assets
of $507.0 million compared to total assets of $474.0 million at December 31, 2010, an increase of $33.0 million, or 6.9%. Gross
loans increased $1.5 million, or 0.4%, to $339.7 million at December 31, 2011 from $338.2 million at December 31, 2010. Total deposits
increased 10.2% to $425.4 million at December 31, 2011 from $386.0 million at December 31, 2010.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents. Our
cash and cash equivalents increased $19.8 million, or 111.3%, at December 31, 2011 to $37.5 million from $17.7 million at December
31, 2010. This increase was due to our deposit growth outpacing loans during the fourth quarter of 2011.
 
Trading Securities and Securities
Portfolio. Our securities portfolio is designed to provide interest income, including tax-exempt income, and also provide
a source of liquidity, diversify the earning assets portfolio, allow for management of interest rate risk, and provide collateral
for public fund deposits and borrowings. Securities are classified as either trading, available for sale or held to maturity. The
portfolio is composed primarily of obligations of U.S. government agencies and government sponsored entities, including collateralized
mortgage obligations issued by such agencies and entities, and tax-exempt municipal bonds.
 
We periodically conduct reviews to evaluate
whether unrealized losses on our investment securities portfolio are deemed temporarily impaired or whether an other-than-temporary
impairment has occurred. Various inputs to economic models are used to determine if an unrealized loss is other-than-temporary.
All of our debt and equity securities have been evaluated as of December 31, 2011 and we do not consider any security other than
temporarily impaired. We evaluated the prospects of the issuers in relation to the severity and the duration of the unrealized
losses. Our securities in unrealized loss positions are mostly driven by wider credit spreads and changes in interest rates. Based
on that evaluation we do not intend to sell any security in an unrealized loss position, and it is more likely than not that we
will not have to sell any of our securities before recovery of its cost basis.
 
Our available for sale securities are stated
at fair value while securities held to maturity are stated at cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts.
Trading securities are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value included in earnings. Unrealized gains and losses on securities
available for sale are excluded from results of operations, and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity
net of taxes. Securities classified as available for sale include securities that may be sold in response to changes in interest
rates, changes in prepayment risk, the need to increase regulatory capital or other similar requirements. Management determines
the appropriate classification of securities at the time of purchase.
 

17
 

 
The following table shows the carrying value
of our available for sale security portfolio as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Securities available for sale are stated at
their fair value.
 


  
December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

U.S. government agencies 
$-  
$21,189  
$15,002 

State and political subdivisions 
 20,570  
 28,735  
 25,877 

Mortgage-backed securities 
    
    
   

U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
 71,998  
 33,286  
 21,877 

Private mortgage-backed securities 
 2,477  
 4,807  
 6,205 

Corporate debt securities 
 -  
 -  
 1,007 

Equity securities-financial services industries and other 
 1,316  
 1,363  
 1,347 

Total available for sale 
$96,361  
$89,380  
$71,315 

 
Our securities, available for sale, increased
by $7.0 million, or 7.8%, to $96.4 million at December 31, 2011 from $89.4 million at December 31, 2010. We purchased $53.7 million
in new securities during 2011, $14.7 million in securities were sold and $32.5 million in securities matured, were called or were
repaid. There was a $1.1 million net increase in unrealized gains in the available for sale portfolio and a $645 thousand realized
gain on the sale of available for sale securities.
 
Trading securities, at fair value, consist
of the following at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Mortgage-backed securities 
$-  
$-  
$2,955 

Total trading securities 
$-  
$-  
$2,955 

 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 we did
not have any trading securities balances.
 
We had $4.2 million of our security portfolio
classified as held to maturity at December 31, 2011, an increase of $3.2 million from December 31, 2010. Held to maturity securities,
carried at amortized cost, consist of the following at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

State and political subdivisions 
$4,220  
$1,000  
$- 

Total held to maturity securities 
$4,220  
$1,000  
$- 

 
The securities portfolio contained no high-risk
securities or derivatives as of December 31, 2011.
 
The contractual maturity distribution and
weighted average yield of our available for sale securities at December 31, 2011 are summarized in the following table. Securities
available for sale are carried at amortized cost in the table for purposes of calculating the weighted average yield received on
such securities. Weighted average yield is calculated by dividing income within each maturity range by the outstanding amount of
the related investment and has not been tax-effected on the tax-exempt obligations.
 


  
Due under 1 Year  
Due 1-5 Years  
Due 5-10 Years  
Due over 10 Years 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Amount  
Yield  
Amount  
Yield  
Amount  
Yield  
Amount  
Yield 

Available for sale: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

State and political subdivisions 
$–  
      –% 
$–  
      –% 
$533  
 6.30% 
$19,173  
 6.35%

Mortgage-backed securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
 –  
 –  
 –  
 –  
 6,117  
 2.83% 
 65,567  
 2.45%

Private mortgage-backed securities 
 –  
 –  
 –  
 –  
 625  
 4.58% 
 1,798  
 4.83%

Equity securities, financial services and other 
 –  
 –  
 –  
 –  
 –  
 –  
 1,349  
 2.68%

Total available for sale 
$–  
      –%  
$–  
      –% 
$7,275  
 3.23% 
$87,887  
 3.35%

 

18
 

 
The contractual maturity distribution and
weighted average yield of our securities held to maturity, at cost, at December 31, 2011 are summarized in the following table.
Weighted average yield is calculated by dividing income within each maturity range by the outstanding amount of the related investment
and has not been tax-effected on the tax-exempt obligations.
 


  
Due under 1 Year  
Due 1-5 Years  
Due 5-10 Years  
Due over 10 Years 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Amount  
Yield  
Amount  
Yield  
Amount  
Yield  
Amount  
Yield 

Held to maturity: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

State and political subdivisions 
$1,580  
 1.73% 
$–  
      –% 
$1,063  
 3.96% 
$1,577  
 4.77%

Total held to maturity 
$1,580  
 1.73% 
$–  
      –% 
$1,063  
 3.96% 
$1,577  
 4.77%

 
We hold $1.8 million in Federal Home Loan
Bank of New York (FHLBNY) stock at December 31, 2011 that we do not consider an investment security. Ownership of this restricted
stock is required for membership in the FHLBNY.
 
Loans. The loan portfolio
comprises the largest component of our earning assets. Total loans receivable, net of unearned income, at December 31, 2011 increased
$1.5 million, or 0.4%, to $339.7 million from $338.2 million at year-end 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, new originations
have exceeded payoffs both through scheduled maturities and prepayments. Loan growth for 2011 occurred in commercial real estate
loans (an increase of $11.8 million, or 5.8%) and residential real estate loans (an increase of $3.5 million, or 3.6%). These increases
were partially offset by declines in construction loans (a decrease of $12.3 million, or 59.2%) and commercial and industrial loans
(a decrease of $1.3 million, or 8.9%).
 
The following table summarizes the composition
of our loan portfolio by type as of December 31, 2007 through 2011:
  


  
December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Commercial and industrial 
$13,711  
$15,045  
$17,016  
$22,346  
$20,702 

Construction 
 8,520  
 20,862  
 27,555  
 38,413  
 41,954 

Commercial real estate 
 216,191  
 204,407  
 193,091  
 174,218  
 165,848 

Residential real estate 
 100,175  
 96,659  
 93,558  
 84,412  
 70,597 

Consumer and other loans 
 1,336  
 1,395  
 1,919  
 1,621  
 1,664 

Total gross loans 
$339,933  
$338,368  
$333,139  
$321,010  
$300,765 

 
The increase in loans was funded during
2011 by an increase in our deposits.
 
The maturity ranges of the loan portfolio
and the amounts of loans with predetermined interest rates and floating rates in each maturity range, as of December 31, 2011,
are presented in the following table.
 


  
December 31, 2011 

  
Due Under  
Due 1-5  
Due Over 

(Dollars in thousands) 
One Year  
Years  
Five Years 

Commercial and industrial 
$3,832  
$5,079  
$4,800 

Construction 
 5,572  
 564  
 2,384 

Commercial real estate 
 20,981  
 8,804  
 186,406 

Residential real estate 
 5,611  
 5,534  
 89,030 

Consumer and other 
 260  
 490  
 586 

Total loans 
$36,256  
$20,471  
$283,206 

  
    
    
   

Interest rates: 
    
    
   

Fixed or predetermined 
$27,701  
$17,938  
$121,953 

Floating or adjustable 
 8,555  
 2,533  
 161,253 

Total loans 
$36,256  
$20,471  
$283,206 

 
Loan and Asset Quality. Non-performing
assets consist of non-accrual loans, loans over ninety days delinquent and still accruing interest, troubled debt restructured
loans still accruing, foreclosed real estate and impaired securities. Total non-performing assets increased by $7.6 million, or
28.6%, to $34.0 million at year-end 2011 from $26.4 million at year-end 2010. The increase in non-performing assets occurred largely
in foreclosed assets and performing troubled debt restructured loans. The ratio of non-performing assets to total assets for December
31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 were 6.7% and 5.6%, respectively.
 

19
 

 
Our non-accrual loan balance increased $1.6
million, or 7.1%, to $24.3 million at December 31, 2011 from $22.7 million at December 31, 2010. Troubled debt restructured loans
still accruing increased $2.1 million to $3.4 million at December 31, 2011 from $1.3 million at December 31, 2010, which was largely
due to one loan of $1.5 million that has been performing since the loan was restructured during the second quarter of 2011. Foreclosed
assets increased $3.1 million to $5.5 million at December 31, 2011 from $2.4 million at December 31, 2010.
 
Management continues to monitor our asset
quality and believes that the non-accrual loans are adequately collateralized and anticipated material losses have been adequately
reserved for in the allowance for loan losses.
 
The following table provides information
regarding risk elements in the loan and securities portfolio as of December 31, 2007 through 2011.
  


  
December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Non-accrual loans: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$32  
$78  
$240  
$336  
$449 

Construction 
 2,458  
 6,430  
 4,307  
 5,042  
 10,210 

Commercial real estate 
 19,311  
 14,930  
 15,211  
 3,460  
 1,533 

Residential real estate 
 2,482  
 1,244  
 457  
 896  
 98 

Consumer and other 
 -  
 -  
 1  
 11  
 11 

Total nonaccrual loans 
 24,283  
 22,682  
 20,216  
 9,745  
 12,301 

Loans past due 90 days and still accruing 
 803  
 49  
 1,392  
 -  
 69 

Troubled debt restructured loans still accruing 
 3,411  
 1,318  
 1,885  
 1,302  
 1,107 

Total non-performing loans 
 28,497  
 24,049  
 23,493  
 11,047  
 13,477 

Impaired securities 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 93  
 - 

Foreclosed real estate 
 5,509  
 2,397  
 3,843  
 3,864  
 - 

Total non-performing assets 
$34,006  
$26,446  
$27,336  
$15,004  
$13,477 

Non-accrual loans to total loans 
 7.15% 
 6.71% 
 6.07% 
 3.04% 
 4.09%

Performing assets to total assets 
 6.71% 
 5.58% 
 6.01% 
 3.41% 
 3.42%

Interest income received on nonaccrual loans 
$408  
$463  
$488  
$61  
$50 

Interest income that would have been recorded under the original terms of the loans 
$1,509  
$1,323  
$1,153  
$858  
$653 

   
In addition to non-performing loans we continue
to monitor our portfolio for potential problem loans. Potential problem loans are defined as loans which cause management to have
serious concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with the present loan repayment terms and which may cause the loan
to be placed on non-accrual status. As of December 31, 2011, we had 8 loans totaling $3.7 million that it deemed potential problem
loans. Management is actively monitoring these loans.
 
Future increases in the allowance for loan
losses may be necessary based on the growth of the loan portfolio, the change in composition of the loan portfolio, possible future
increases in non-performing loans and charge-offs, and the impact the deterioration of the real estate and economic environments
in our lending region. Although we use the best information available, the level of allowance for loan losses remains an estimate
that is subject to significant judgment and short-term change. For additional information, see Critical Accounting Policies above
and as more fully described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses. The
allowance for loan losses consists of general and allocated components. The allocated component relates to loans that are classified
as impaired. For those loans that are classified as impaired, an allowance is established when the discounted cash flows, collateral
value or observable market price of the impaired loan is lower than the carrying value of that loan. The general component covers
non-classified loans and is based on historical charge-off experience and expected losses derived from our internal risk rating
process. Other adjustments may be made to the allowance for pools of loans after an assessment of internal or external influences
on credit quality that are not fully reflected in the historical loss or risk rating data are made.
 

20
 

 
Management regularly assesses the appropriateness
and adequacy of the loan loss reserve in relation to credit exposure associated with individual borrowers, overall trends in the
loan portfolio and other relevant factors, and believes the reserve is reasonable and adequate for each of the periods presented.
 
At December 31, 2011, the allowance for
loan losses was $7.2 million, an increase of $813 thousand, or 12.7%, from $6.4 million at December 31, 2010. The provision for
loan losses was $3.3 million and there were $3.0 million in charge-offs and $549 thousand in recoveries during 2011. The allowance
for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 2.12% at December 31, 2011 compared to 1.89% on December 31, 2010.
 
The table below presents information regarding
our provision and allowance for loan losses for each of the periods presented.
  


  
Year Ended December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Balance at beginning of year 
$6,397  
$5,496  
$5,813  
$5,140  
$3,340 

Provision charged to operating expenses 
 3,306  
 3,280  
 3,404  
 1,350  
 1,930 

Recoveries of loans previously charged-off: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
 6  
 126  
 4  
 6  
 2 

Construction 
 516  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Commercial real estate 
 8  
 2  
 60  
 3  
 6 

Residential real estate 
 -  
 -  
 71  
 -  
 - 

Consumer and other 
 19  
 19  
 17  
 30  
 46 

Total recoveries 
 549  
 147  
 152  
 39  
 54 

Loans charged-off: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
 24  
 241  
 1,345  
 34  
 70 

Construction 
 909  
 768  
 1,632  
 -  
 - 

Commercial real estate 
 2,057  
 1,462  
 588  
 504  
 - 

Residential real estate 
 12  
 -  
 242  
 68  
 12 

Consumer and other 
 40  
 55  
 66  
 110  
 102 

Total charge-offs 
 3,042  
 2,526  
 3,873  
 716  
 184 

Net charge-offs 
 2,493  
 2,379  
 3,721  
 677  
 130 

Balance at end of year 
$7,210  
$6,397  
$5,496  
$5,813  
$5,140 

Net charge-offs to average loans outstanding 
 0.73% 
 0.72% 
 1.14% 
 0.22% 
 0.05%

Allowance for loan losses to year-end loans 
 2.12% 
 1.89% 
 1.65% 
 1.81% 
 1.71%

 
The table below presents details concerning
the allocation of the allowance for loan losses to the various categories for each of the periods presented. The allocation is
made for analytical purposes and it is not necessarily indicative of the categories in which future credit losses may occur. The
total allowance is available to absorb losses from any category of loans.
   


  
Allowance for Loans Losses at December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
Percent  
   
Percent  
   
Percent 

  
   
Of Loans  
   
Of Loans  
   
Of Loans 

  
   
In Each  
   
In Each  
   
In Each 

  
   
Category  
   
Category  
   
Category 

  
   
To Total  
   
To Total  
   
To Total 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Amount  
Loans  
Amount  
Loans  
Amount  
Loans 

Commercial and industrial 
$304  
 4.0% 
$436  
 4.4% 
$379  
 5.1%

Construction 
 294  
 3.1% 
 1,183  
 6.2% 
 1,387  
 8.3%

Commercial real estate 
 4,833  
 63.2% 
 3,760  
 60.4% 
 3,283  
 58.0%

Residential real estate 
 987  
 29.3% 
 798  
 28.6% 
 323  
 28.0%

Consumer and other loans 
 9  
 0.4% 
 56  
 0.4% 
 94  
 0.6%

Unallocated 
 783  
 -  
 164  
 -  
 30  
 - 

Total 
$7,210  
 100.0% 
$6,397  
 100.0% 
$5,496  
 100.0%

 

21
 

 


 


  
Allowance for Loans Losses at December 31, 

  
2008  
2007 

  
   
Percent  
   
Percent 

  
   
Of Loans  
   
Of Loans 

  
   
In Each  
   
In Each 

  
   
Category  
   
Category 

  
   
To Total  
   
To Total 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Amount  
Loans  
Amount  
Loans 

Commercial and industrial 
$520  
 7.0% 
$438  
 6.9%

Construction 
 2,245  
 12.0% 
 2,238  
 13.9%

Commercial real estate 
 2,223  
 54.2% 
 2,129  
 55.2%

Residential real estate 
 705  
 26.3% 
 263  
 23.5%

Consumer and other loans 
 55  
 0.5% 
 72  
 0.5%

Unallocated 
 65  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Total 
$5,813  
 100.0% 
$5,140  
 100.0%

 
Premises and Equipment. Premises
and equipment increased by $29 thousand, or 0.4%, from $6.7 million at December 31, 2010 to $6.8 million at December 31, 2011.
 
Bank-owned Life Insurance (BOLI).
Our BOLI carrying value increased to $11.1 million at December 31, 2011 from $10.2 million at December 31, 2010. The increase
was principally the result of a $550 thousand purchase in 2011 and $419 thousand in net earnings on bank owned life insurance policies.
 
Deposits. Total deposits increased
$39.4 million, or 10.2%, to $425.4 million at December 31, 2011 from $386.0 million at December 31, 2010. The increase was largely
in time deposits, NOW and non-interest bearing, which grew $18.5 million, or 20.0%, $12.5 million, or 16.6%, and $9.4 million,
or 26.6%, respectively, between December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The increase in NOW deposits was attributable to growth
in our municipal deposits.
 
Total average deposits increased $8.6 million
from $394.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 to $403.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, a 2.2% increase.
Average NOW accounts increased to $81.4 million for 2011, an increase of $13.6 million, or 20.2%, from $67.7 million for 2010.
The average money market account balances increased $2.3 million, or 17.6% from $13.2 million for 2010 to $15.5 million for 2011.
Declines in savings and time deposits, on average, of $6.0 million or 3.4% and $2.7 million or 2.6%, respectively, partly offset
the aforementioned increases in deposits.
 
The average balances and weighted average
rates paid on deposits for 2011, 2010 and 2009 are presented below.
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 

  
2011 Average  
2010 Average  
2009 Average 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Balance  
Rate  
Balance  
Rate  
Balance  
Rate 

Demand, non-interest bearing 
$39,595  
 -  
$38,255  
 -  
$38,154  
 - 

Now accounts 
 81,374  
 0.47% 
 67,729  
 0.76% 
 57,928  
 1.00%

Money market accounts 
 15,505  
 0.54% 
 13,189  
 0.71% 
 14,709  
 1.21%

Savings 
 168,233  
 0.67% 
 174,208  
 0.98% 
 169,541  
 1.63%

Time 
 98,673  
 1.57% 
 101,354  
 1.66% 
 101,565  
 2.76%

Total deposits 
$403,380  
 0.78% 
$394,735  
 1.01% 
$381,897  
 1.66%

  
The remaining maturity for certificates
of deposit accounts of $100,000 or more as of December 31, 2011 is presented in the following table.
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011 

3 months or less 
$3,208 

3 to 6 months 
 9,187 

6 to 12 months 
 5,703 

Over 12 months 
 21,840 

Total 
$39,938 

 

22
 

 
Borrowings. Borrowings may
consist of short and long-term advances from the FHLBNY and a line of credit at Atlantic Central Bankers Bank. The FHLBNY advances
are secured under terms of a blanket collateral agreement by a pledge of qualifying investment securities and certain mortgage
loans. At December 31, 2011, we had $26.0 million in long term advances outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 4.03%.
 
The following table summarizes short-term
borrowings and weighted average interest rates paid during the past three years.
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Average daily amount of short-term borrowings outstanding during the period 
$642  
$137  
$22 

Weighted average interest rate on average daily short-term borrowings 
 0.44% 
 0.38% 
 0.38%

Maximum short-term borrowings outstanding at any month-end 
$5,500  
$10,000  
$- 

Short-term borrowings outstanding at period end 
$-  
$10,000  
$- 

Weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings at period end 
 -% 
 0.38% 
 - %

 
Junior Subordinated Debentures.
On June 28, 2007, we raised $12.5 million in capital through the issuance of junior subordinated debentures to a non-consolidated
statutory trust subsidiary. The subsidiary in turn issued $12.5 million in variable rate capital trust pass through securities
to investors in a private placement. The interest rate is based on the three-month LIBOR plus 144 basis points and adjusts quarterly.
The rate at December 31, 2011 was 1.99%. The capital securities are redeemable by us during the first five years at a redemption
price of 103.5% of par for the first year and thereafter on a sliding scale down to 100% of par on or after September 15, 2012
in whole or in part or earlier if the regulatory capital or tax treatment of the securities is substantially changed. These trust
preferred securities must be redeemed upon final maturity on September 15, 2037. The proceeds of these trust preferred securities,
which have been contributed to the Bank, are included in the Bank’s capital ratio calculations and treated as Tier I capital.
 
In accordance with FASB ASC 810, Consolidation,
our wholly owned subsidiary, Sussex Capital Trust II, is not included in our consolidated financial statements. For regulatory
reporting purposes, the Federal Reserve allows trust preferred securities to continue to qualify as Tier I capital subject to specified
limitations.
 
Equity. Stockholders’
equity inclusive of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes, was $39.9 million at December 31, 2011, an increase
of $3.2 million, from the $36.7 million at year-end 2010. The increase in stockholders’ equity was due to $2.5 million in
net income recorded in 2011 and a $672 thousand increase in unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax.
 
COMPARISON OF OPERATING RESULTS FOR YEAR-END DECEMBER 31,
2011 AND 2010
 
Results of Operations. Our
net income is impacted by five major components and each of them is reviewed in more detail in the following discussion:
 

·net interest income, or the difference between interest income earned on loans and investments and interest expense paid on
deposits and borrowed funds;
 

·provision for loan losses, or the amount added to the allowance for loan losses to provide reserves for inherent losses on
loans;
 

·non-interest income, which is made up primarily of certain loan and deposit fees, insurance commissions and gains and losses
from sales of securities or other transactions;
 

·non-interest expense, which consists primarily of salaries, employee benefits, credit collection and write-off costs and other
operating expenses; and
 

·income taxes.
 
Our net income increased 13.5% to $2.5 million,
or $0.74 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2011 over the same period in 2010. We attribute the increase in net
income to growth in non-interest income and net interest income, which was partly offset by higher non-interest expenses.
 

23
 

 
Net Interest Income. Net interest
income is the most significant component of our income from operations. Net interest income is the difference between interest
earned on total interest-earning assets (primarily loans and investment securities), on a fully taxable equivalent basis, where
appropriate, and interest paid on total interest-bearing liabilities (primarily deposits and borrowed funds). Fully taxable equivalent
basis represents income on total interest-earning assets that is either tax-exempt or taxed at a reduced rate, adjusted to give
effect to the prevailing incremental federal tax rate, and adjusted for nondeductible carrying costs and state income taxes, where
applicable. Yield calculations, where appropriate, include these adjustments. Net interest income depends on the volume and interest
rate earned on interest-earning assets and the volume and interest rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities.
 
Comparative Average Balance and Average
Interest Rates. The following table presents, on a fully taxable equivalent basis, a summary of our interest-earning assets
and their average yields, and interest-bearing liabilities and their average costs for each of the years ended December 31, 2011
and 2010. The average balances of loans include non-accrual loans, and associated yields include loan fees, which are considered
adjustment to yields.
 


  
Twelve Months December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
Average  
   
Average  
Average  
   
Average 

Earning Assets: 
Balance  
Interest(1)  
Rate(2)  
Balance  
Interest(1)  
Rate(2) 

Securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Tax exempt(3) 
$29,692  
$1,770  
 5.96% 
$28,871  
$1,662  
 5.76%

Taxable 
 54,425  
 1,314  
 2.41% 
 52,766  
 1,796  
 3.40%

Total securities 
 84,117  
 3,084  
 3.67% 
 81,637  
 3,458  
 4.24%

Total loans receivable(4) 
 339,770  
 18,798  
 5.53% 
 331,457  
 19,057  
 5.75%

Other interest-earning assets 
 28,547  
 60  
 0.21% 
 32,793  
 65  
 0.20%

Total earning assets 
 452,434  
 21,942  
 4.85% 
 445,887  
 22,580  
 5.06%

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Non-interest earning assets 
 38,507  
    
    
 37,945  
    
   

Allowance for loan losses 
 (7,314) 
    
    
 (6,093) 
    
   

Total Assets 
$483,627  
    
    
$477,739  
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Sources of Funds: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Interest bearing deposits: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

NOW 
$81,374  
$386  
 0.47% 
$67,729  
$512  
 0.76%

Money market 
 15,505  
 84  
 0.54% 
 13,189  
 93  
 0.71%

Savings 
 168,233  
 1,122  
 0.67% 
 174,208  
 1,709  
 0.98%

Time 
 98,673  
 1,549  
 1.57% 
 101,354  
 1,681  
 1.66%

Total interest bearing deposits 
 363,785  
 3,141  
 0.86% 
 356,480  
 3,995  
 1.12%

Borrowed funds 
 26,642  
 1,064  
 3.99% 
 32,593  
 1,393  
 4.27%

Junior subordinated debentures 
 12,887  
 222  
 1.72% 
 12,887  
 225  
 1.75%

Total interest bearing liabilities 
 403,314  
 4,427  
 1.10% 
 401,960  
 5,613  
 1.40%

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Non-interest bearing liabilities: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Demand deposits 
 39,595  
    
    
 38,255  
    
   

Other liabilities 
 2,349  
    
    
 1,525  
    
   

Total non-interest bearing liabilities 
 41,944  
    
    
 39,780  
    
   

Stockholders' equity 
 38,369  
    
    
 35,999  
    
   

Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity 
$483,627  
    
    
$477,739  
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net interest income and margin (5) 
    
 17,515  
 3.87% 
    
 16,967  
 3.81%

Tax-equivalent basis adjustment 
    
 (602) 
    
    
 (552) 
   

Net interest income 
    
$16,913  
    
    
$16,415  
   


  


 
(1)Includes loan fee income.

(2)Average rates on securities are calculated on amortized costs.

(3)Full taxable equivalent basis, using a 39% effective tax rate and adjusted for Tax and Equity Fiscal Responsibility Act (“TEFRA”)
interest expense disallowance.

(4)Loans outstanding include non-accrual loans.

(5)Represents the difference between interest earned and interest paid, divided by average total interest-earning assets on a
tax equivalent basis.
 
Net interest income, on a fully taxable
equivalent basis, increased $548 thousand, or 3.2%, to $17.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $17.0
million for same period in 2010. The increase in net interest income was attributed to a stronger net interest margin, which improved
6 basis points to 3.87%, and a $6.5 million increase in average interest earning assets for 2011 compared to 2010. The improvement
in the net interest margin was mostly attributed to a 30 basis point decline in the average rate paid on interest bearing liabilities
to 1.10%, which was partly offset by a 21 basis point decrease in the average rate on earning assets to 4.85% for the year ended
December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period last year.
 

24
 

 
Interest Income. Total interest
income, on a fully taxable equivalent basis, decreased $638 thousand, or 2.8%, to $21.9 million for the year ended December 31,
2011 compared to $22.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decline in interest income was largely due to decreases
in average rates earned on total earning assets, which decreased 21 basis points to 4.85% in 2011 from 5.06% for 2010. The average
rates for both the securities and loan portfolio’s declined by 57 basis points and 22 basis points, respectively, for the
year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010.
 
Interest income from securities, on a fully
taxable equivalent basis, decreased $374 thousand, or 10.8%, for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in
2010. The average rate decreased 57 basis points to 3.67% for 2011 from 4.24% for 2010. The decline was largely attributed to 36.0%
of the security portfolio either maturing, being called or principal repayments, which were mostly reinvested in a lower interest
rate environment.
 
Interest income from the loan portfolio
decreased by $259 thousand, or 1.4%, to $18.8 million for 2011 from $19.1 million for 2010. The decline was due to lower average
rates earned on loans, which decreased 22 basis points to 5.53% for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 5.75% for the same period
in 2010. The aforementioned decline was partly offset by an increase in the average balance of the loan portfolio, which grew $8.3
million, or 2.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
Interest Expense. Total interest
expense decreased $1.2 million, or 21.1%, to $4.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $5.6 million for the same period
in 2010. The decrease was principally due to a decline in the average rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities of 30 basis points
to 1.10% in 2011 compared to 1.40% in 2010. The decline in average rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities was largely due to
a decrease in rates paid on savings deposits and time deposits of 31 basis points and 9 basis points, respectively, for 2011 compared
to 2010. The benefit derived from a decline in average rates more than offset the increase in interest expense associated with
the growth of average interest-bearing liabilities of $1.4 million for 2011 compared to the prior year. The growth in average interest-bearing
liabilities occurred primarily in NOW accounts, which increased $13.6 million.
 
The following table reflects the impact
on net interest income from changes in the volume of earning assets and interest bearing liabilities and changes in rates earned
and paid by us on such assets and liabilities. For purposes of this table, nonaccrual loans have been included in the average loan
balance. Changes due to both volume and rate have been allocated in proportion to the relationship of the dollar amount change
in each.
 


  
December 31, 2011 v. 2010  
December 31, 2010 v. 2009 

  
Increase (decrease)  
Increase (decrease) 

  
Due to changes in:  
Due to changes in: 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Volume  
Rate  
Total  
Volume  
Rate  
Total 

Securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Tax exempt 
$48  
$60  
$108  
$47  
$(132) 
$(85)

Taxable 
 54  
 (536) 
 (482) 
 (255) 
 (536) 
 (791)

Total securities(1) 
 102  
 (476) 
 (374) 
 (208) 
 (668) 
 (876)

Total loans receivable(2) 
 471  
 (730) 
 (259) 
 275  
 (477) 
 (202)

Other interest-earning assets 
 (8) 
 3  
 (5) 
 28  
 (8) 
 20 

Total net change in income on interest-    earning assets 
 565  
 (1,203) 
 (638) 
 95  
 (1,153) 
 (1,058)

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Interest bearing deposits: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

NOW 
 89  
 (215) 
 (126) 
 89  
 (159) 
 (70)

Money Market 
 15  
 (24) 
 (9) 
 (17) 
 (67) 
 (84)

Savings 
 (57) 
 (530) 
 (587) 
 74  
 (1,123) 
 (1,049)

Time 
 (44) 
 (88) 
 (132) 
 (6) 
 (1,117) 
 (1,123)

Total interest bearing deposits 
 3  
 (857) 
 (854) 
 140  
 (2,466) 
 (2,326)

Borrowed funds 
 (242) 
 (87) 
 (329) 
 (24) 
 (9) 
 (33)

Junior subordinated debentures 
 -  
 (3) 
 (3) 
 -  
 (81) 
 (81)

Total net change in expense on interest-bearing liabilities 
 (239) 
 (947) 
 (1,186) 
 116  
 (2,556) 
 (2,440)

Change in net interest income 
$804  
$(256) 
$548  
$(21) 
$1,403  
$1,382 

  

 
(1) Fully taxable equivalent basis, using 39% effective tax
rate and adjusted for TEFRA interest expense disallowance.
(2) Includes loan fee income.
 

25
 

 
Provision for Loan Losses. The
provision for loan losses for 2011 and 2010 was $3.3 million. The provision for loan losses reflects management review, analysis
and judgment of the credit quality of the loan portfolio for 2011 and the effects of current economic environment and lower real
estate collateral values from the time the loans were originated. Our non-accrual loans increased $1.6 million, or 7.1%, to $24.3
million at December 31, 2011 from $22.7 million at December 31, 2010. We believe these loans are adequately provided for in our
loan loss provision or are sufficiently collateralized at December 31, 2011. The provision for loan losses reflects management’s
judgment concerning the risks inherent in our existing loan portfolio and the size of the allowance necessary to absorb the risks,
as well as the activity in the allowance during the periods. Management reviews the adequacy of its allowance on an ongoing basis
and will provide additional provisions, as deemed necessary. Also see Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements and “Allowance
for Loan Losses and Credit Quality of Financing Receivables” herein for further discussion.
 
Non-Interest Income. Non-interest
income consists of all income other than interest and dividend income and is principally derived from: service charges on deposits;
insurance commission income; commissions on sales of annuities and mutual funds; ATM and debit card income; BOLI income and net
gains on sale of securities and loans. We recognize the importance of supplementing net interest income with other sources of income
as it continues to explore new opportunities to generate non-interest income.
 
Non-interest income increased $672 thousand,
or 14.6%, to $5.3 million for 2011 as compared to $4.6 million for 2010. The increase in non-interest income was largely due to
higher gains on sale of securities, growth in insurance commissions and fees and bank-owned life insurance income of $593 thousand,
$199 thousand (9.6%), and $106 thousand (33.8%), respectively, as compared to the same period last year. The security gains resulted
from the execution of strategies aimed at improving our interest rate risk profile and the sales of mortgage-backed securities
that have significantly paid down since their original purchase date. A decline in service fees on deposits, which decreased $116
thousand for 2011 as compared to 2010, partially offset these increases.
 
Non-Interest Expense. Total
non-interest expense increased $755 thousand, or 5.0%, to $15.8 million for 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase for 2011 was
largely due to an increase in salaries and benefits and loan collection costs of $745 thousand, or 9.6%, and $322 thousand, or
64.2%, respectively. The increase was partly offset by a $211 thousand decline in FDIC assessment costs. The increase in salary
and benefits expenses was due in part to the hiring of more commercial lenders, higher medical premiums, the reinstatement of the
401(k) employer match and recruiting costs. Total salary expense, excluding benefits, increased $414 thousand, or 6.3%, while benefits
increased $331 thousand, or 26.7%, for 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. The remaining other expenses declined by 1.7%
for 2011 compared to 2010.
 
Income Taxes. Provision for
income taxes was $637 thousand and $542 thousand for 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company’s effective tax rate was 20.5%
and 19.9% for 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Notes 1 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion on
income taxes.
 
Operational Risk
 
We are exposed to a variety of operational
risks that can affect each of its business activities, particularly those involving processing and servicing of loans. Operational
risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems from external events.
The risk of loss also includes losses that may arise from potential legal actions that could result from operational deficiencies
or noncompliance with contracts, laws or regulations. We monitor and evaluate operational risk on an ongoing basis through systems
of internal control, formal corporate-wide policies and procedures, and an internal audit function.
 
Liquidity, Capital Resources and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
Liquidity. A fundamental component
of our business strategy is to manage liquidity to ensure the availability of sufficient resources to meet all financial obligations
and to finance prospective business opportunities. Liquidity management is critical to our stability. Our liquidity position over
any given period of time is a product of our operating, financing and investing activities. The extent of such activities is often
shaped by such external factors as competition for deposits and loan demand.
 

26
 

 
Traditionally, financing for our loans and
investments is derived primarily from deposits, along with interest and principal payments on loans and investments. At December
31, 2011, total deposits amounted to $425.4 million, an increase of $39.4 million, or 10.2%, over the prior comparable year. At
December 31, 2011, advances from the FHLBNY and subordinated debentures totaled $38.9 million and represented 7.7% of total assets
as compared to $48.9 million and 10.3% of total assets, at December 31, 2010.
 
Loan production continued to be our principal
investing activity. Net loans at December 31, 2011 amounted to $332.5 million, an increase of $658 thousand, or 0.2%, compared
to the same period in 2010.
 
Our most liquid assets are cash and due
from banks and federal funds sold. At December 31, 2011, the total of such assets amounted to $37.5 million, or 7.4%, of total
assets, compared to $17.7 million, or 3.7%, of total assets at year-end 2010. The increase in liquid assets was driven by deposit
growth exceeding loan growth. Another significant liquidity source is our available for sale securities. At December 31, 2011,
available for sale securities amounted to $96.4 million compared to $89.4 million at year-end 2010.
 
In addition to the aforementioned sources
of liquidity, we have available various other sources of liquidity, including federal funds purchased from other banks and the
Federal Reserve discount window. The Bank also has the capacity to borrow an additional $27.9 million
through its membership in the FHLBNY and $4 million at Atlantic Central Bankers Bank at December 31, 2011. Management believes
that our sources of funds are sufficient to meet our present funding requirements.
 
Capital Resources. The Bank’s
regulators have classified and defined bank capital as consisting of Tier I capital, which includes tangible stockholders’
equity for common stock and certain preferred stock and other hybrid instruments, and Tier II capital, which includes a portion
of the allowance for loan losses, certain qualifying long-term debt and preferred stock which does not qualify for Tier I capital.
 
The Bank’s regulators have implemented
risk-based guidelines which require banks to maintain certain minimum capital as a percent of such assets and certain off-balance
sheet items adjusted for predefined credit risk factors (risk-adjusted assets). Banks are required to maintain Tier I capital as
a percent of risk-adjusted assets of 4.0% and Tier II capital as of risk-adjusted assets of 8.0% at a minimum. At December 31,
2011, the Bank’s Tier I and Tier II capital ratios were 13.05% and 14.31%, respectively. We also maintained $704 thousand
in cash and cash equivalents, which could be contributed to the Bank as capital.
 
In addition to the risk-based guidelines
discussed above, the Bank’s regulators require that banks, which meet the regulators’ highest performance and operational
standards, maintain a minimum leverage ratio (Tier I capital as a percent of tangible assets) of 4.0%. For those banks with higher
levels of risk or that are experiencing or anticipating growth, the minimum will be proportionately increased. Minimum leverage
ratios for each bank and bank holding company are established and updated through the ongoing regulatory examination process. As
of December 31, 2011, the Bank had a leverage ratio of 9.29%.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.
Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect off-balance sheet arrangements that are made in the normal course of business.
These off-balance sheet arrangements consist of unfunded loans and letters of credit made under the same standards as on-balance
sheet instruments. These unused commitments at December 31, 2011 totaled $38.0 million, which consisted of $10.3 million in commitments
to grant commercial and residential loans, $26.1 million in unfunded commitments under lines of credit and $1.6 million in outstanding
letters of credit. These instruments have fixed maturity dates, and because many of them will expire without being drawn upon,
they do not generally present any significant liquidity risk to us. Management believes that any amounts actually drawn upon can
be funded in the normal course of operations.
 
Market Risk
 
Market risk is generally described as the sensitivity of income
to adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices.
Market rate sensitive instruments include: financial instruments such as investments, loans, mortgage-backed securities, deposits,
borrowings and other debt obligations; derivative financial instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps and options; and derivative
commodity instruments, such as commodity futures, forwards, swaps and options that are permitted to be settled in cash or another
financial instrument.
 
We do not have any material exposure to
foreign currency exchange rate risk or commodity price risk. We did not enter into any market rate sensitive instruments for trading
purposes nor did we engage in any trading or hedging transactions utilizing derivative financial instruments during 2011. Our real
estate loan portfolio, concentrated largely in northern New Jersey, is subject to risks associated with the local and regional
economies. Our primary source of market risk exposure arises from changes in market interest rates (“interest rate risk”).
 

27
 

 
Interest Rate Risk
 
Interest rate risk is generally described as the exposure to
potentially adverse changes in current and future net interest income resulting from: fluctuations in interest rates, product spreads,
and imbalances in the repricing opportunities of interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities. Therefore, managing our interest
rate sensitivity is a primary objective of our senior management. Our Asset/Liability Committee (“ALCO”) is responsible
for managing the exposure to changes in market interest rates.
 
We manage interest rate risk exposure with
the assistance of an independent third party who provides financial modeling and simulation modeling, analysis and reporting. The
reports provided by the third party are used to determine our exposure to market rate changes on net interest income and future
economic value of equity. Our objective is to maximize net interest income within acceptable levels of risk established by policy.
The techniques utilized for managing exposure to market rate changes involve a variety of interest rate, pricing and volume assumptions.
These assumptions include projections on growth, prepayment and withdrawal levels as well as other embedded options inherently
found in financial instruments. We review and validate these assumptions at least annually or more frequently if economic or other
conditions change. At December 31, 2011, we simulated the effects on net interest income given an instantaneous and parallel shift
in the yield curve of up to a 200 basis point rising interest rate environment and an 200 basis point declining interest rate environment.
Based on the simulation, it was estimated that net interest income, over a twelve-month horizon, would not decrease by more than
5.0%. Our interest rate risk management policies provide that net interest income should not decrease by more than 5.0% if interest
rates increase from current rates given an instantaneous and parallel shift in the yield curve of a 200 basis point rise in rates
or 200 basis point decline in rates, respectively. Policy exceptions, if any, are reported to the Board of Directors. At December
31, 2011, we were within policy limits established for changes in net interest income and future economic value of equity. Economic
value of equity is defined as the market value of its assets less the market value of its liabilities plus (or minus) the market
value of any off-balance sheet positions.
 
The following table sets forth our interest
rate risk profile at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities and the impact on
net interest income illustrated in the following table would vary substantially if different assumptions were used or if actual
experience differs from that indicated by the assumptions. Down 200 basis points was not presented for December 31, 2011 and 2010
due to the extremely low rate environment.
 


  
Net Portfolio Value(2)  
Net interest Income 

(Dollars in thousands) 
   
Estimated Increase  
Estimated  
Estimated Increase 

Change in Interest Rates 
Estimated  
(Decrease)  
Net Interest  
(Decrease) 

(basis points)(1) 
NPV  
Amount  
Percent  
Income(3)  
Amount  
Percent 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
   

 +200bp 
$32,453  
$(7,862) 
 (14.8)% 
$17,670  
$721  
 4.3%

0bp 
$40,315  
 -  
 -  
$16,949  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
    
   

 +200bp 
$36,765  
$(4,325) 
 (10.5)% 
$16,556  
$(872) 
 (5.0)%

0bp 
$41,090  
 -  
 -  
$17,428  
 -  
 - 

 

(1)Assumes an instantaneous and parallel shift in interest rates at all maturities.

(2)NPV, also referred to as economic value of equity, is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities
and off-balance sheet contracts.

(3)Assumes a gradual change in interest rates over a one-year period at all maturities.
 
The simulation described above does not represent forecast and
should not be relied upon as being indicative of expected operating results. These hypothetical estimates are based upon numerous
assumptions, including the nature and timing of interest rate levels including yield curve shape, prepayments on loans and securities,
deposit decay rates, pricing decisions on loans and deposits, reinvestment/replacement of asset and liability cash flows, and others.
While assumptions are developed based upon current economic and local market conditions, we cannot make any assurances as to the
predictive nature of these assumptions including how customer preferences or competitor influences might change.
 

28
 

 
Further, as market conditions vary from
those assumed in the simulation, actual results will also differ due to prepayment/refinancing levels deviating from those assumed,
the varying impact of interest rate changes on caps or floors on adjustable rate assets, the potential effect of changing debt
service levels on customers with adjustable rate loans, depositor early withdrawals and product preference changes, and other internal/external
variables. Furthermore, the simulation does not reflect actions that ALCO might take in response to anticipated changes in interest
rates or competitive conditions in the market place.
 
Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices
 
Unlike most industrial companies, virtually
all of the assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature. As a result, the level of interest rates has
a more significant impact on a financial institution’s performance than general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not
necessarily move in the same direction or change with the same magnitude as the price of goods and services, which are affected
by inflation. Accordingly, the liquidity, interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics of our assets and liabilities
are more indicative of its ability to maintain acceptable performance levels. Management monitors and seeks to mitigate the impact
of interest rate changes by attempting to match the maturities of assets and liabilities, thus seeking to minimize the potential
effect of inflation.
 


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

 
Not Applicable.
 


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

 
Our consolidated financial statements and
related notes thereto may be found on pages F-1 through F-35 of this report.
 


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

 
Not applicable.
 


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

 
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
 
Management, including our President and
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that
evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were
effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file and submit under the Exchange Act (i) is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported as and when required and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our management including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely discussion regarding required disclosure.
 
There have been no changes in our internal
control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation that occurred during our last fiscal quarter that
has materially affected, or that is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 

29
 

 
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
Management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13A-15 (f) and 15d-15 (f) of
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management
and Board of Directors as to the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with GAAP. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements, errors or fraud. Also, projections of any evaluations of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.
 
Management assessed the effectiveness of
our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on this assessment, management concluded that as of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting is operating
as designed and is effective based on the COSO criteria.
 


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION

 
None.
 

30
 

PART III
 


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

 
The information included in our Definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “Proxy Statement”) under the following captions is
incorporated herein by reference: “Election of Directors,” “Information About Our Executive Officers,”
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Report Compliance” and “Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate
Governance.”
 


ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

 
The information included in the Proxy Statement
under the following captions is incorporated herein by reference: “Executive Compensation” and “Director Compensation.”
 


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

 
The information included in the Proxy Statement
under the following captions is incorporated herein by reference: “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management”
and “Securities Authorized For Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans.”
 


ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

 
The information included in the Proxy Statement
under the following captions is incorporated herein by reference: “Transactions with Certain Related Persons” and “Board
of Directors Independence.”
 


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

 
The information included in the Proxy Statement
under the following caption is incorporated herein by reference: “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees and
Services.”
 

31
 

 
PART IV
 


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

 

(a)(1)Financial Statements
 
Reference is made to the consolidated
financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of Part II hereof.
 
(a)(2)      Financial Statement
Schedules
 
Consolidated financial statement schedules
have been omitted because the required information is not present, or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
the schedules, or because the required information is provided in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 

(a)(3)Exhibits
 
The exhibits required to be filed as part
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are listed in the Exhibit Index attached hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
 

32
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
SUSSEX BANCORP

 
 

 
/s/ Anthony Labozzetta           

 
Anthony Labozzetta

 
President and Chief Executive Officer

 
Dated: March 23, 2012

 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities
and on March 23, 2012.
 




Name
 
Title

 
 
 

/s/ Anthony Labozzetta
 
President and Chief Executive Officer

Anthony Labozzetta
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Steven M. Fusco
 
Senior Vice President (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Steven M. Fusco
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Anthony S. Abbate
 
Director

Anthony S. Abbate
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Patrick Brady
 
Director

Patrick Brady
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Richard Branca
 
Director

Richard Branca
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Katherine H. Caristia
 
Director

Katherine H. Caristia
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Mark J. Hontz
 
Director

Mark J. Hontz
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Donald L. Kovach
 
Director

Donald L. Kovach
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Edward J. Leppert
 
Director

Edward J. Leppert
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Timothy Marvil
 
Director

Timothy Marvil
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Robert McNerney
 
Director

Robert McNerney
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Richard W. Scott
 
Director

Richard W. Scott
 
 



 


33
 



 
Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
Board of Directors and Stockholders
Sussex Bancorp
 
We have audited
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Sussex Bancorp and its subsidiary (the “Company”) as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the years
then ended. The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting.
Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion,
the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Sussex
Bancorp and its subsidiary as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 


/s/ ParenteBeard LLC
 

 
 

Allentown, Pennsylvania
 

March 23, 2012


 
 


F-1
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 


  
December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

ASSETS 
    
   

Cash and due from banks 
$3,903  
$4,672 

Interest-bearing deposits with other banks 
 33,597  
 10,077 

Federal funds sold 
 -  
 3,000 

Cash and cash equivalents 
 37,500  
 17,749 

  
    
   

Interest bearing time deposits with other banks 
 100  
 600 

Securities available for sale, at estimated fair value 
 96,361  
 89,380 

Securities held to maturity, at cost (estimated fair value of $4,345 at December 31, 2011and $1,007 at December 31, 2010) 
 4,220  
 1,000 

Federal Home Loan Bank Stock, at cost 
 1,837  
 2,235 

  
    
   

Loans receivable, net of unearned income 
 339,705  
 338,234 

Less: allowance for loan losses 
 7,210  
 6,397 

Net loans receivable 
 332,495  
 331,837 

  
    
   

Foreclosed real estate 
 5,509  
 2,397 

Premises and equipment, net 
 6,778  
 6,749 

Accrued interest receivable 
 1,735  
 1,916 

Goodwill 
 2,820  
 2,820 

Bank-owned life insurance 
 11,142  
 10,173 

Other assets 
 6,456  
 7,168 

Total Assets 
$506,953  
$474,024 

  
    
   

  
    
   

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
    
   

Liabilities: 
    
   

Deposits: 
    
   

Non-interest bearing 
$44,762  
$35,362 

Interest bearing 
 380,614  
 350,605 

Total Deposits 
 425,376  
 385,967 

  
    
   

Short-term borrowings 
 -  
 10,000 

Long-term borrowings 
 26,000  
 26,000 

Accrued interest payable and other liabilities 
 2,788  
 2,504 

Junior subordinated debentures 
 12,887  
 12,887 

Total Liabilities 
 467,051  
 437,358 

  
    
   

Stockholders' Equity: 
    
   

Preferred stock, no par value, 1,000,000 shares authorized; none issued 
 -  
 - 

Common stock, no par value, 10,000,000 shares authorized; issued shares 3,373,793 in 2011 and 3,352,346 in 2010; outstanding shares 3,372,949 in 2011 and 3,351,566 in 2010 
 27,964  
 27,870 

Treasury stock, at cost; 844 shares in 2011 and 780 shares in 2010 
 (4) 
 (4)

Retained earnings 
 11,223  
 8,753 

Accumulated other comprehensive income 
 719  
 47 

Total Stockholders' Equity 
 39,902  
 36,666 

Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity 
$506,953  
$474,024 

 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements
 

F-2
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands except per share data) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

INTEREST INCOME 
    
   

Loans receivable, including fees 
$18,798  
$19,057 

Securities: 
    
   

Taxable 
 1,314  
 1,796 

Tax-exempt 
 1,168  
 1,110 

Federal funds sold 
 4  
 22 

Interest bearing deposits 
 56  
 43 

Total Interest Income 
 21,340  
 22,028 

  
    
   

INTEREST EXPENSE 
    
   

Deposits 
 3,141  
 3,995 

Borrowings 
 1,064  
 1,393 

Junior subordinated debentures 
 222  
 225 

Total Interest Expense 
 4,427  
 5,613 

  
    
   

Net Interest Income 
 16,913  
 16,415 

PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES 
 3,306  
 3,280 

Net Interest Income after Provision for Loan Losses 
 13,607  
 13,135 

  
    
   

OTHER INCOME 
    
   

Service fees on deposit accounts 
 1,290  
 1,406 

ATM and debit card fees 
 545  
 501 

Bank-owned life insurance 
 419  
 313 

Insurance commissions and fees 
 2,270  
 2,071 

Investment brokerage fees 
 145  
 166 

Realized holding gains on trading securities 
 -  
 7 

Gain on sale of securities, available for sale 
 645  
 52 

Gain on sale of premises and equipment 
 -  
 2 

(Loss) gain on sale of foreclosed real estate 
 (38) 
 18 

Impairment write-downs on equity securities 
 (231) 
 (171)

Other 
 238  
 246 

Total Other Income 
 5,283  
 4,611 

  
    
   

OTHER EXPENSES 
    
   

Salaries and employee benefits 
 8,528  
 7,783 

Occupancy, net 
 1,412  
 1,345 

Furniture, equipment and data processing 
 1,177  
 1,234 

Advertising and promotion 
 172  
 178 

Professional fees 
 661  
 607 

Director Fees 
 176  
 265 

FDIC assessment 
 700  
 911 

Insurance 
 216  
 222 

Stationary and supplies 
 184  
 194 

Loan collection costs 
 824  
 502 

Write-down on foreclosed real estate 
 145  
 241 

Expenses related to foreclosed real estate 
 269  
 270 

Amortization of intangible assets 
 10  
 14 

Other 
 1,309  
 1,262 

Total Other Expenses 
 15,783  
 15,028 

  
    
   

Income before Income Taxes 
 3,107  
 2,718 

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES 
 637  
 542 

Net Income 
$2,470  
$2,176 

  
    
   

EARNINGS PER SHARE 
    
   

Basic 
$0.76  
$0.67 

Diluted 
$0.74  
$0.66 

 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 

F-3
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS'
EQUITY
Year Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
 


  
   
   
   
Accumulated  
   
  

  
Number of  
   
   
Other  
   
Total 

  
Shares  
Common  
Retained  
Comprehensive  
Treasury  
Stockholders' 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Outstanding  
Stock  
Earnings  
Income  
Stock  
Equity 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Balance December 31, 2009 
 3,259,786  
$27,805  
$6,577  
$145  
$-  
$34,527 

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 2,176  
 -  
 -  
 2,176 

Change in unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax, and  reclassification adjustments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (98) 
    
 (98)

Total Comprehensive Income 
    
    
    
    
    
 2,078 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Treasury shares purchased 
 (780) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (4) 
 (4)

Restricted stock granted 
 95,303  
    
    
    
    
   

Restricted stock forfeited 
 (2,743) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Compensation expense related to stock
option and
    restricted stock grants 
 -  
 65  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 65 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance December 31, 2010 
 3,351,566  
 27,870  
 8,753  
 47  
 (4) 
 36,666 

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 2,470  
 -  
 -  
 2,470 

Change in unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax, and  reclassification adjustments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 672  
 -  
 672 

Total Comprehensive Income 
    
    
    
    
    
 3,142 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Treasury shares purchased 
 (64) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Restricted stock granted 
 25,305  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Restricted stock forfeited 
 (3,858) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Compensation expense related to stock
option and restricted stock grants 
 -  
 94  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 94 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance December 31, 2011 
 3,372,949  
$27,964  
$11,223  
$719  
$(4) 
$39,902 

 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 

F-4
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 


  
Years Ended December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 
    
   

Net income 
$2,470  
$2,176 

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: 
    
   

Provision for loan losses 
 3,306  
 3,280 

Provision for depreciation and amortization 
 607  
 736 

Net change in trading securities 
 -  
 714 

Impairment charge on equity securities 
 231  
 171 

Net amortization of securities premiums and discounts 
 1,009  
 378 

Net realized gain on sale of securities 
 (645) 
 (52)

Net gain on sale of premises and equipment 
 -  
 (2)

Net realized loss (gain) on sale of foreclosed real estate 
 38  
 (18)

Provision for foreclosed real estate 
 145  
 241 

Deferred income taxes 
 (378) 
 (125)

Earnings on investment in life insurance 
 (419) 
 (313)

Compensation expense for stock options and stock awards 
 94  
 65 

Decrease in assets: 
    
   

Accrued interest receivable 
 181  
 27 

Other assets 
 632  
 1,860 

Increase in accrued interest payable and other liabilities 
 284  
 242 

  
    
   

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 
 7,555  
 9,380 

  
    
   

Cash Flows from Investing Activities 
    
   

Securities available for sale: 
    
   

Purchases 
 (53,654) 
 (46,867)

Proceeds from sale of securities 
 14,670  
 1,081 

Maturities, calls and principal repayments 
 32,535  
 29,303 

Securities held to maturity: 
    
   

Purchases 
 (3,227) 
 (1,000)

Net increase in loans 
 (8,260) 
 (8,980)

Net maturities (purchases) of interest bearing time deposits 
 500  
 (500)

Proceeds from the sale of foreclosed real estate 
 1,001  
 2,549 

Proceeds from the sale of bank premises and equipment 
 -  
 2 

Purchases of bank premises and equipment 
 (626) 
 (406)

Purchases of bank-owned life insurance 
 (550) 
 (6,500)

Net decrease (increase) in FHLB stock 
 398  
 (190)

  
    
   

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities 
 (17,213) 
 (31,508)

  
    
   

Cash Flows from Financing Activities 
    
   

Net increase in deposits 
 39,409  
 13,892 

Proceeds from borrowings 
 -  
 10,000 

Repayments of borrowings 
 (10,000) 
 (7,090)

Purchase of treasury stock 
 -  
 (4)

  
    
   

Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities 
 29,409  
 16,798 

  
    
   

Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 19,751  
 (5,330)

  
    
   

Cash and Cash Equivalents - Beginning 
 17,749  
 23,079 

Cash and Cash Equivalents - Ending 
$37,500  
$17,749 

  
    
   

Supplementary Cash Flows Information 
    
   

Interest paid 
$4,395  
$5,705 

Income taxes paid 
$1,103  
$784 

Supplementary Schedule of Noncash Investing and Financing Activities 
    
   

Foreclosed real estate acquired in settlement of loans 
$4,296  
$1,326 

Trading securities transferred to available for sale securities 
$-  
$2,241 

 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 

F-5
 

 
NOTE 1 – SUMMARY
OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Sussex Bancorp (the “Company”) and its wholly owned subsidiary, Sussex Bank (the “Bank”). The Bank’s
wholly owned subsidiaries are SCB Investment Company, SCBNY Company, Inc., ClassicLake Enterprises, LLC, Wheatsworth Properties
Corp., PPD Holdings LLC and Tri-State Insurance Agency, Inc. (“Tri-State”). All intercompany transactions and balances
have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Organization and Nature of Operations
Sussex Bancorp’s business is conducted principally through
the Bank. Sussex Bank is a New Jersey state chartered bank and provides full banking services. The Bank generates commercial, mortgage
and consumer loans and receives deposits from customers at its eight branches located in Sussex County, New Jersey and two branches
in Orange County, New York. As a state bank, the Bank is subject to regulation of the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Sussex Bancorp is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. SCB Investment
Company and SCBNY Company, Inc. hold portions of the Bank’s investment portfolio. Tri-State provides insurance agency services
mostly through the sale of property and casualty insurance policies. ClassicLake Enterprises, LLC, PPD Holdings LLC and Wheatsworth
Properties Corp. hold certain foreclosed properties. The Company opened a loan production and insurance agency satellite office
in Rochelle Park, New Jersey during the fourth quarter of 2011.
 
Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change in
the near term relate to the determination of the other-than-temporary impairment, allowance for loan losses, valuation of goodwill
and intangible assets, the valuation of deferred tax assets and the fair value of financial instruments.
 
Significant Group Concentrations of Credit Risk
Most of the Company’s activities are with customers located
within Sussex County, New Jersey and adjacent counties in the states of New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania. Notes 3 and 4 discuss
the types of securities that the Company invests in. The types of lending that the Company engages are included in Note 5. Although
the Company has a diversified loan portfolio, its debtors’ ability to honor their contracts is influenced by the region’s
economy. The Company does not have any significant concentrations in any one industry or customer.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash
and cash equivalents include cash and cash equivalents, balances due from banks, interest bearing deposits with banks and federal
funds sold. Generally, federal funds are purchased and sold for one-day periods.
 
Securities
Securities are designated at the time of acquisition as available
for sale or held to maturity. Securities that the Company will hold for indefinite periods of time and that might be sold in the
future as part of efforts to manage interest rate risk or in response to changes in interest rates, changes in prepayment risk,
changes in market conditions or changes in economic factors are classified as available for sale and carried at estimated fair
values. Securities available for sale are recorded at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported
in other comprehensive income, net of related deferred tax effect. Securities that the Company has the positive intent and ability
to hold to maturity are designated as held to maturity regardless of changes in market conditions, liquidity needs or changes in
general economic conditions and carried at amortized cost.
 

F-6
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
 
Purchase premiums and discounts are recognized in interest income
using the level yield method over the contractual terms of the securities. Gains and losses realized on sales of securities are
determined on the specific identification method and are reported in non-interest income.
 
The Company periodically evaluates the security portfolio to
determine if a decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Our evaluation of other-than-temporary
impairment considers the duration and severity of the impairment, our intent and ability to hold the securities and our assessments
of the reason for the decline in value and the likelihood of a near-term recovery. If a determination is made that a debt security
is other-than-temporarily impaired, the Company will estimate the amount of the unrealized loss that is attributable to credit
and all other non-credit related factors. The credit related component will be recognized as an other-than-temporary impairment
charge in non-interest income. The non-credit related component will be recorded as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive
income, net of tax.
 
Federal Home Loan Bank Stock
Federal law requires a member institution of the Federal Home
Loan Bank (“FHLB”) system to hold stock of its district FHLB according to a predetermined formula. Based on redemption
provisions of the FHLB, the stock has no quoted market value and is carried at cost. The FHLB stock was carried at $1,837,000 and
$2,235,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable that management has the intent and ability
to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff are stated at their outstanding unpaid principal balances, net of
an allowance for loan losses and any deferred fees or costs. Interest income is accrued on the unpaid principal balance. Loan origination
fees, net of certain direct origination costs, are deferred and recognized as an adjustment of the yield (interest income) of the
related loans. The Bank is generally amortizing these amounts over the contractual life of the loan.
 
The loans receivable portfolio is segmented into commercial
and consumer loans. Commercial loans consist of the following classes: commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, and construction
loans. Consumer loans consist of the following classes: residential real estate, consumer and other loans.
 
For all classes of loans, the accrual of interest is discontinued
when the contractual payment of principal or interest has become 90 days past due or management has serious doubts about further
collectability of principal or interest, even though the loan is currently performing. A loan may remain on accrual status if
it is in the process of collection and is either guaranteed or well secured. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, unpaid
interest credited to income in the current year is reversed and unpaid interest accrued in prior years is charged against the
allowance for loan losses. Interest received on nonaccrual loans including impaired loans generally are either applied against
principal or reported as interest income, according to management’s judgment as to the collectability of principal. Generally,
loans are restored to accrual status when the obligation is brought current, has performed in accordance with the contractual
terms for a reasonable period of time (generally six months) and the ultimate collectability of the total contractual principal
and interest is no longer in doubt. The past due status of all classes of loans receivable is determined based on contractual
due dates for loan payments.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses
The allowance for loan losses represents the amount, which,
in management’s judgment, will be adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet
date. The adequacy of the allowance is determined by management’s evaluation of the loan portfolio based on such factors
as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the current financial condition of specific borrowers, the
economic environment in which borrowers operate, the level of delinquent loans, the value of any collateral and, where applicable,
the existence of any guarantees or indemnifications.
 
The allowance for loan losses is established through provisions
for loan losses charged against income. Loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for loan losses, and
subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses consists of specific
and general components. The specific component relates to loans that are classified as doubtful, substandard or special mention.
For such loans that are also classified as impaired, an allowance is established when the discounted cash flows, collateral value
or observable market price of the impaired loan is lower than the carrying value for that loan. The general component covers non-classified
loans and is based on historical loss experience adjusted for qualitative factors.
 

F-7
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
 
A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information
and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due
according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors considered by management in determining impairment include payment
status, collateral value and the probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience
insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired.
 
Management determines the significance of payment delays and
payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower,
including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower’s prior payment record and the amount of the shortfall
in relation to the principal and interest owed. Impairment is measured on a loan by loan basis for commercial and industrial, commercial
real estate and construction loans by either the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective
interest rate, the loan’s observable market price or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.
 
Transfers of Financial Assets
Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when
control over the assets has been surrendered. Control over transferred assets is deemed to be surrendered when (1) the assets have
been isolated from the Company, (2) the transferee obtains the right (free of conditions that constrain it from taking advantage
of that right) to pledge or exchange the transferred assets, and (3) the Company does not maintain effective control over the transferred
assets through an agreement to repurchase them before their maturity.
 
Foreclosed Assets
Foreclosed assets are primarily comprised of property acquired
through a foreclosure proceeding or acceptance of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure. Foreclosed assets initially are recorded at fair
value, less cost to sell at the date of foreclosure, establishing a new cost basis. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically
performed by management and the assets are carried at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. Revenues and
expenses from operations and changes in the valuation allowance are included in expenses related to foreclosed real estate.
 
Premises and Equipment
Land is carried at cost. Premises and equipment are stated at
cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives
of the related assets:
 


 
Years

Buildings and building improvements
20 – 40

Leasehold improvements
5 – 10

Furniture, fixtures and equipment
5 – 10

Computer equipment and software
3 – 5

 
 
Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010 was $597 thousand and $722 thousand, respectively.
 
Bank Owned Life Insurance
Bank-owned life insurance (BOLI) is carried at the amount that
could be realized under the Company’s life insurance contracts as of the date of the consolidated balance sheets and is classified
as a non-interest earning asset. BOLI involves purchasing life insurance by the Company on a chosen group of employees. The Company
is the owner and beneficiary of the policies. Increases in the carrying value are recorded as non-interest income in the consolidated
statements of income and insurance proceeds received are generally recorded as a reduction of the carrying value. The carrying
value consists of cash surrender value of $11.1 million at December 31, 2011 and $10.2 million at December 31, 2010.
 

F-8
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
 
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the
fair market value of net assets acquired. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company has recorded goodwill totaling $2.8 million,
primarily as a result of the acquisition of an insurance agency in 2001. In accordance with current accounting standards, goodwill
is not amortized, but evaluated at least annually for impairment. Any impairment of goodwill results in a charge to income. The
Company periodically accesses whether events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible
assets may be impaired. The estimated fair value of the reporting segment exceeded its book value; therefore, no write-down of
goodwill was required. The goodwill related to the insurance agency is not deductible for tax purposes.
 
The Company has an amortizable core deposit intangible asset
related to the premium paid on the acquisition of deposits. The core deposit intangible was created on March 24, 2006 in the acquisition
of the Port Jervis branch and is being amortized on a seven year accelerated schedule. This intangible was $6 thousand and $16
thousand, net of accumulated amortization of $114 thousand and $104 thousand as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Other intangible assets are included in other assets on the
balance sheets for December 31, 2011 and 2010. Amortization expense on intangible assets was $10 thousand and $14 thousand
for the years ended December 31, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Amortization expense is estimated to be $5 thousand for the
year ending December 31, 2012 and $1 thousand for the year ending December 31, 2013.
 
Advertising Costs
The Company follows the policy of charging the costs of advertising
to expense as incurred.
 
Income Taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset/liability
method in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”)
740, Income Taxes. The income tax guidance results in two components of income tax expense: current and deferred. Current
income tax expense reflects taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period by applying the provisions of the enacted tax law
to the taxable income or excess of deductions over revenues. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future
tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities
and their respective tax bases, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected
to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income
in the period in which they occur. A valuation allowance is established against deferred tax assets when, in the judgment of management,
it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will not become available. Because the judgment about the level of future
taxable income is dependent to a great extent on matters that may, at least in part, be beyond the Company’s control, it
is at least reasonably possible that management’s judgment about the need for a valuation allowance for deferred taxes could
change in the near term.
 
In connection with the accounting guidance related to accounting
for uncertainty in income taxes, which sets out a consistent framework to determine the appropriate level of tax reserves to maintain
for uncertain tax positions, the Company has evaluated its tax positions as of December 31, 2011. A tax position is recognized
as a benefit only if it is “more likely than not” that the tax position would be sustained in a tax examination, with
a tax examination being presumed to occur. The amount recognized is the largest amount of the tax benefit that has more than a
50 percent likelihood of being realized on examination. For tax positions not meeting the “more likely than not” test,
no tax benefit is recorded. Under the “more likely than not” threshold guidelines, the Company believes no significant
uncertain tax positions exist, either individually or in the aggregate, that would give rise to the non-recognition of an existing
tax benefit. As of December 31, 2011 the Company had no material unrecognized tax benefits or accrued interest or penalties. The
Company’s policy is to account for interest as a component of interest expense and penalties as a component of other expense.
Sussex Bancorp and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return as well as income tax returns in the States of
New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania. The Company’s federal and state income tax returns before 2008 remain subject to examination
by respective tax authorities.
 

F-9
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
 
Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments
In the ordinary course of business, the Bank has entered into
off-balance sheet financial instruments consisting of commitments to extend credit and letters of credit. Such financial instruments
are recorded in the balance sheet when they are funded.
 
Stock Compensation Plans
The Company currently has several stock plans in place for employees
and directors of the Company. FASB ASC 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, requires that the compensation cost relating
to share-based payment transactions be recognized in financial statements. The stock compensation accounting guidance requires
that compensation cost for all stock awards be calculated and recognized over a defined vesting period. For awards with graded-vesting,
compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite vesting period for the entire award. A Black-Sholes
model is used to estimate the fair value of stock options, while the market price of the Company’s common stock at the date
of grant is used for restricted stock awards. Stock-based compensation expense related to stock plans for the year ended December
31, 2011 and 2010 was $94 thousand and $65 thousand, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, there was $456 thousand of unrecognized
compensation costs related to non-vested restricted stock awards remaining to expense.
 
Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share represents net income available to
common stockholders divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The
weighted-average common shares outstanding include the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding less the weighted
average number of unvested shares of restricted stock. Diluted earnings per share reflect additional common shares that
would have been outstanding if dilutive potential common shares had been issued, as well as any adjustment to income that would
result from the assumed issuance. Potential common shares that may be issued by the Company relate to outstanding stock options
and non-vested restricted stock grants. Potential common shares related to stock options are determined using the treasury stock
method.
 
Treasury Stock
Repurchases of shares of Company common stock are recorded at
cost as a reduction of stockholders’ equity. Reissuances of shares of treasury stock are recorded at average cost.
 
Segment Reporting
The Company acts as an independent community financial services
provider and offers traditional banking and related financial services to individual, business and government customers. Through
its branch and automated teller machine networks, the Bank offers a full array of commercial and retail financial services, including
taking of time, savings and demand deposits; the making of commercial, consumer and mortgage loans; and the providing of other
financial services. The Bank also performs fiduciary services through its Trust Department. Management does not separately allocate
expenses, including the cost of funding loan demand, between the commercial, retail, trust and mortgage banking operations of the
Bank. As such, discrete financial information is not available and segment reporting would not be meaningful. The Company’s
insurance agency is managed separately from the traditional banking and related financial services that the Company offers. The
insurance operations provides primarily property and casualty coverage. See Note 2 for segment reporting of insurance operations.
 
Insurance Agency Operations
Tri-State is a retail insurance broker operating in the State
of New Jersey. The insurance agency’s primary source of revenue is commission income, which is earned by placing insurance
coverage for its customers with various insurance underwriters. The insurance agency places basic property and casualty, life and
health coverage with about fifteen different insurance carriers. There are two main billing processes, direct billing (currently
accounts for approximately 90% of revenues) and agency billing.
 
Under the direct billing arrangement, the insurance carrier
bills and collects from the customer directly and remits the brokers’ commission to Tri-State on a monthly basis. For direct
bill policies, Tri-State records commissions as revenue when the data necessary to reasonably determine such amounts is obtained.
On a monthly basis, Tri-State receives notification from each insurance carrier of total premiums written and collected during
the month, and the broker’s net commission due for their share of business produced by them.
 

F-10
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
 
Under the agency billing arrangement, the broker bills and collects
from the customer directly, retains their commission, and remits the net premium amount to the insurance carrier. Virtually all
agency-billed policies are billed and collected on an installment basis (the number of payments varies by policy). Tri-State records
revenues for the first installment as of the policy effective date. Revenues from subsequent installments are recorded at the installment
due date. Tri-State records its commission as a percentage of each installment due.
 
Trust Operations
Trust income is recorded on a cash basis, which approximates
the accrual basis. Securities and other property held by the Company in a fiduciary or agency capacity for customers of the trust
department are not assets of the Company and, accordingly, are not included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
The Company had assets under management of $948 thousand and $1.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Subsequent Events
The Company has evaluated events and transactions occurring
subsequent to the balance sheet date of December 31, 2011 for items that should potentially be recognized or disclosed in these
financial statements. The evaluation was conducted through the date these financial statements were issued.
 
Reclassifications
Certain amounts in 2010 consolidated financial statements have
been reclassified to conform to the 2011 consolidated financial statement presentation.
 
New Accounting Standards
In December, 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update
(ASU) 2011-10, Derecognition of in Substance Real Estate – a Scope Clarification. This ASU clarifies previous guidance
for situations in which a reporting entity would relinquish control of the assets of a subsidiary in order to satisfy the nonrecourse
debt of the subsidiary. The ASU concludes that if control of the assets has been transferred to the lender, but not legal ownership
of the assets; then the reporting entity must continue to include the assets of the subsidiary in its consolidated financial statements.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public entities for annual and interim periods beginning on or after June 15, 2012.
Early adoption is permitted. We do not expect that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated
financial statements.
 
In December, 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11, Disclosures
about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities, in an effort to improve comparability between U.S. GAAP and IFRS financial statements
with regard to the presentation of offsetting assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position arising from financial
and derivative instruments, and repurchase agreements. The ASU establishes additional disclosures presenting the gross amounts
of recognized assets and liabilities, offsetting amounts, and the net balance reflected in the statement of financial position.
Descriptive information regarding the nature and rights of the offset must also be disclosed. We do not expect that the adoption
of this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 
In December, 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Deferral
of the Effective Date to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting
Standards Update 2011-05. In response to stakeholder concerns regarding the operational ramifications of the presentation of
these reclassifications for current and previous years, the FASB has deferred the implementation date of this provision to allow
time for further consideration. The requirement in ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, for the presentation
of a combined statement of comprehensive income or separate, but consecutive, statements of net income and other comprehensive
income is still effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011 for public companies. We do not
expect that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 

F-11
 

 
SUSSEX BANCORP
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 2 – SEGMENT REPORTING
 
Segment information for 2011 and 2010 is as follows:
 


  
Banking and  
Insurance  
  

(Dollars in thousands) 
Financial Services  
Services  
Total 

  
   
   
  

Year Ended December 31, 2011: 
    
    
   

Net interest income from external sources 
$16,913  
$-  
$16,913 

Other income from external sources 
 3,013  
 2,270  
 5,283 

Depreciation and amortization 
 595  
 12  
 607 

Income (loss) before income taxes 
 2,955  
 152  
 3,107 

Income tax expense (benefit) (1) 
 576  
 61  
 637 

Total assets 
 504,076  
 2,877  
 506,953 

  
    
    
   

Year Ended December 31, 2010: 
    
    
   

Net interest income from external sources 
$16,415  
$-  
$16,415 

Other income from external sources 
 2,540  
 2,071  
 4,611 

Depreciation and amortization 
 724  
 12  
 736 

Income before income taxes 
 2,790  
 (72) 
 2,718 

Income tax expense (1) 
 571  
 (29) 
 542 

Total assets 
 471,104  
 2,920  
 474,024 

 
(1) Calculated at statutory tax rate of 40%
 
NOTE 3 – FAIR VALUE
OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
 
Management uses its best judgment in estimating the fair value
of the Company’s financial instruments; however, there are inherent weaknesses in any estimation technique. Therefore, for
substantially all financial instruments, the fair value estimates herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the Company
could have realized in a sale transaction on the dates indicated. The estimated fair value amounts have been measured as of their
respective year ends, and have not been re-evaluated or updated for purposes of these financial statements subsequent to those
respective dates. As such, the estimated fair values of these financial instruments subsequent to the respective reporting dates
may be different than the amounts reported at each year end.
 
Under FASB ASC 820, there is a hierarchical disclosure framework
associated with the level of pricing observability utilized in measuring assets and liabilities at fair value. The three broad
levels defined by the FASB ASC 820 hierarchy are as follows:
 
Level I - Quoted prices are available in active markets
for identical assets or liabilities as of the reported date.
 
Level II - Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices
in active markets, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reported date. The nature of these asset and liabilities
include items for which quoted prices are available but traded less frequently, and items that are fair valued using other financial
instruments, the parameters of which can be directly observed.
 
Level III - Assets and liabilities that have little
to no pricing observability as of reported date. These items do not have two-way markets and are measured using management’s
best estimate of fair value, where the inputs into the determination of fair value require significant management judgment or estimation.
 

F-12
 

 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
The following table summarizes the fair value of the Company’s
financial assets measured on a recurring basis by the above FASB ASC 820 pricing observability levels as of December 31, 2011 and
2010:
 


  
   
Quoted Prices in  
Significant  
  

  
   
Active Markets  
Other  
Significant 

  
Fair  
for Identical  
Observable  
Unobservable 

  
Value  
Assets  
Inputs  
Inputs 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Measurements  
(Level I)  
(Level II)  
(Level III) 

  
   
   
   
  

December 31, 2011: 
    
    
    
   

State and political subdivisions 
$20,570  
$-  
$20,570  
$- 

Mortgage-backed securities 
    
    
    
   

US government-sponsored enterprises 
 71,998  
 -  
 71,998  
 - 

Private mortgage-backed securities 
 2,477  
 -  
 2,477  
 - 

Equity securities-financial services industry and other 
 1,316  
 1,316  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$21,189  
$-  
$21,189  
$- 

State and political subdivisions 
 28,735  
 -  
 28,735  
 - 

Mortgage-backed securities 
    
    
    
   

US government-sponsored enterprises 
 33,286  
 -  
 33,286  
 - 

Private mortgage-backed securities 
 4,807  
 -  
 4,807  
 - 

Equity securities-financial services industry and other 
 1,363  
 1,213  
 150  
 - 

  
The Company’s available for sale securities portfolio
contains investments which are all rated within the Company’s investment policy guidelines and upon review of the entire
portfolio all securities are marketable and have observable pricing inputs. There were no trading securities gains or losses recorded
during 2011 and a holding gain on trading securities recorded on the income statement of $7 thousand for the year ended December
31, 2010.
 
For assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, the
fair value measurements by level within the fair value hierarchy used at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 


  
   
Quoted Prices in  
Significant  
  

  
   
Active Markets  
Other  
Significant 

  
Fair  
for Identical  
Observable  
Unobservable 

  
Value  
Assets  
Inputs  
Inputs 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Measurements  
(Level I)  
(Level II)  
(Level III) 

  
   
   
   
  

December 31, 2011: 
    
    
    
   

Impaired loans 
$11,571  
$-  
$-  
$11,571 

Foreclosed real estate 
 4,959  
 -  
 -  
 4,959 

  
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010: 
    
    
    
   

Impaired loans 
$13,430  
$-  
$-  
$13,430 

Foreclosed real estate 
 2,007  
 -  
 -  
 2,007 

 

F-13
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
The following information
should not be interpreted as an estimate of the fair value of the entire Company since a fair value calculation is only provided
for a limited portion of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Due to a wide range of valuation techniques and the degree
of subjectivity used in making the estimates, comparisons between the Company’s disclosures and those of other companies
may not be meaningful. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of the Company’s financial
instruments at December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents (Carried at Cost): The
carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents approximate those assets’ fair value.
 
Deposits (Carried at Cost): Fair value for fixed-rate
time certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently being
offered in the market on certificates to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits. The Company generally
purchases amounts below the insured limit, limiting the amount of credit risk on these time deposits.
 
Securities: The fair value of securities, available
for sale (carried at fair value) and securities held to maturity (carried at amortized cost) are determined by obtaining quoted
market prices on nationally recognized securities exchanges (Level I), or matrix pricing (Level 2), which is a mathematical technique
used widely in the industry to value debt securities without relying exclusively on quoted market prices for the specific securities
but rather by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices. For certain securities which are
not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability,
and such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence (Level 3). In the absence of such evidence, management’s
best estimate is used. Management’s best estimate consists of both internal and external support on certain Level 3 investments.
Internal cash flow models using a present value formula that includes assumptions market participants would use along with indicative
exit pricing obtained from broker/dealers (where available) were used to support fair values of certain Level 3 investments.
 
Loans Receivable (Carried at Cost): The fair values
of loans are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, using the market rates at the balance sheet date that reflect the credit
and interest rate-risk inherent in the loans. Projected future cash flows are calculated based upon contractual maturity or call
dates, projected repayments and prepayments of principal. Generally, for variable rate loans that reprice frequently and with no
significant change in credit risk, fair values are based on carrying values.
 
Impaired Loans (Generally Carried at Fair Value): 
Impaired loans are those that are accounted for under FASB ASC 310, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan, in
which the Company has measured impairment generally based on the fair value of the loan’s collateral. Fair value is generally
determined based upon independent third-party appraisals of the properties, or discounted cash flows based upon the expected proceeds.
These assets are included in Level 3 fair values, based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements.
The fair value consists of the loan balances of $13.5 million and $14.8 million, net of valuation allowance of $1.9 million and
$1.4 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Additional provisions for loan losses of $1.4 million and $1.2 million for 2011 and
2010, respectively, were recorded during these periods.
 
Federal Home Loan Bank Stock (Carried at Cost): The
carrying amount of restricted investment in bank stock approximates fair value and considers the limited marketability of such
securities.
 
Deposit Liabilities (Carried at Cost): The fair
values disclosed for demand, savings and club accounts are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting
date (i.e., their carrying amounts). Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow
calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered in the market on certificates to a schedule of aggregated expected
monthly maturities on time deposits.
 
Borrowings (Carried at Cost):  Fair values of
FHLB advances are estimated using discounted cash flow analysis, based on quoted prices for new FHLB advances with similar credit
risk characteristics, terms and remaining maturity. These prices obtained from this active market represent a market value that
is deemed to represent the transfer price if the liability were assumed by a third party.
 

F-14
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
Junior Subordinated Debentures (Carried at Cost): Fair
values of junior subordinated debt are estimated using discounted cash flow analysis, based on market rates currently offered on
such debt with similar credit risk characteristics, terms and remaining maturity.
 
Accrued Interest Receivable and Accrued Interest Payable
(Carried at Cost): The carrying amounts of accrued interest receivable and payable approximate its fair value.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Instruments (Disclosed at Cost): Fair
values for the Company’s off-balance sheet financial instruments (lending commitments and letters of credit) are based on
fees currently charged in the market to enter into similar agreements, taking into account, the remaining terms of the agreements
and the counterparties’ credit standing.
 
The estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments
at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:
  


  
2011  
2010 

  
Carrying  
Fair  
Carrying  
Fair 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Amount  
Value  
Amount  
Value 

  
   
   
   
  

Financial assets: 
    
    
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$37,500  
$37,500  
$17,749  
$17,749 

Time deposits with other banks 
 100  
 100  
 600  
 600 

Securities available for sale 
 96,361  
 96,361  
 89,380  
 89,380 

Securities held to maturity 
 4,220  
 4,345  
 1,000  
 1,007 

Federal Home Loan Bank stock 
 1,837  
 1,837  
 2,235  
 2,235 

Loans receivable, net of allowance 
 332,495  
 334,403  
 331,837  
 334,762 

Accrued interest receivable 
 1,735  
 1,735  
 1,916  
 1,916 

  
    
    
    
   

Financial liabilities: 
    
    
    
   

Deposits 
 425,376  
 428,098  
 385,957  
 386,935 

Borrowings 
 26,000  
 29,686  
 36,000  
 38,168 

Junior subordinated debentures 
 12,887  
 6,613  
 12,887  
 8,647 

Accrued interest payable 
 301  
 301  
 269  
 269 

  
    
    
    
   

Off-balance financial instruments: 
    
    
    
   

Commitments to extend credit 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Outstanding letters of credit 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

 


F-15
 

   


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




   


NOTE 4 – SECURITIES

 
Available for Sale
 
The amortized cost and approximate fair value of securities
available for sale as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are summarized as follows:
 


  
   
Gross  
Gross  
  

  
Amortized  
Unrealized  
Unrealized  
Fair 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Cost  
Gains  
Losses  
Value 

  
   
   
   
  

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
   

State and political subdivisions 
$19,706  
$883  
$(19) 
$20,570 

Mortgage-backed securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
 71,684  
 786  
 (472) 
 71,998 

Private mortgage-backed securities 
 2,423  
 58  
 (4) 
 2,477 

Equity securities-financial services industry and other 
 1,349  
 1  
 (34) 
 1,316 

  
$95,162  
$1,728  
$(529) 
$96,361 

  
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$21,158  
$78  
$(47) 
$21,189 

State and political subdivisions 
 29,353  
 97  
 (715) 
 28,735 

Mortgage-backed securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
 32,560  
 747  
 (21) 
 33,286 

Private mortgage-backed securities 
 4,592  
 215  
 -  
 4,807 

Equity securities-financial services industry and other 
 1,638  
 9  
 (284) 
 1,363 

  
$89,301  
$1,146  
$(1,067) 
$89,380 

 
Securities with a carrying value of approximately $21.5 million
and $12.1 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were pledged to secure public deposits and for other purposes
required or permitted by applicable laws and regulations.
 
The amortized cost and fair value of securities available for
sale at December 31, 2011 are shown below by contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities
as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
 


  
Amortized  
Fair 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Cost  
Value 

  
   
  

Due in one year or less 
$-  
$- 

Due after one year through five years 
 -  
 - 

Due after five years through ten years 
 533  
 559 

Due after ten years 
 19,173  
 20,011 

Total bonds and obligations 
 19,706  
 20,570 

Mortgage-backed securities: 
    
   

U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
 71,684  
 71,998 

Private mortgage-backed securities 
 2,423  
 2,477 

Equity securities-financial services industry and other 
 1,349  
 1,316 

Total available for sale securities 
$95,162  
$96,361 

 
Gross gains on sales of securities available for sale were $685
thousand and $55 thousand and gross losses were $40 thousand and $3 thousand for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.
 

F-16
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
Temporarily Impaired Securities
The following table shows our investments’ gross unrealized
losses and fair value with unrealized losses that are not deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, aggregated by investment
category and length of time that individual available for sale securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at
December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
 


  
Less Than Twelve Months  
Twelve Months or More  
Total 

  
   
Gross  
   
Gross  
   
Gross 

  
Fair  
Unrealized  
Fair  
Unrealized  
Fair  
Unrealized 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Value  
Losses  
Value  
Losses  
Value  
Losses 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
   

State and political subdivisions 
$115  
$(2) 
$124  
$(17) 
$239  
$(19)

Mortgage-backed securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
 34,576  
 (472) 
 -  
 -  
 34,576  
 (472)

Private mortgage-backed securities 
 518  
 (4) 
 -  
 -  
 518  
 (4)

Equity securities-financial services industry and other 
 -  
 -  
 1,025  
 (34) 
 1,025  
 (34)

Total temporarily impaired securities 
$35,209  
$(478) 
$1,149  
$(51) 
$36,358  
$(529)

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$6,962  
$(47) 
$-  
$-  
$6,962  
$(47)

State and political subdivisions 
 18,006  
 (578) 
 1,071  
 (137) 
 19,077  
 (715)

Mortgage-backed securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
 4,536  
 (21) 
 -  
 -  
 4,536  
 (21)

Equity securities-financial services industry and other 
 820  
 (50) 
 445  
 (234) 
 1,265  
 (284)

Total temporarily impaired securities 
$30,324  
$(696) 
$1,516  
$(371) 
$31,840  
$(1,067)

 
As of December 31, 2011, we reviewed our investment portfolio
for indications of impairment. This review includes analyzing the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been
lower than the cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events which may influence
the operations of the issuer and the intent and likelihood of selling the security. The intent and likelihood of sale of debt and
equity securities is evaluated based upon our investment strategy for the particular type of security and our cash flow needs,
liquidity position, capital adequacy and interest rate risk position. For each security (including but not limited to those whose
fair value is less than their amortized cost basis), a review is conducted to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has
occurred.
 
State and Political Subdivisions 
At December 31, 2011, the improvement in market value and the
unrealized losses for the Company’s state and political subdivisions portfolio were caused by changes in interest rates and
spreads and were not the result of credit quality. At December 31, 2011, there were two securities with a fair value of $239 thousand
that had an unrealized loss that amounted to $19 thousand. The average loss amounts to 7.2% of book value at December 31, 2011.
These securities typically have maturity dates greater than ten years and the fair values are more sensitive to changes in market
interest rates. As of December 31, 2011, the Company did not intend to sell and it was not more-likely-than-not that the Company
would be required to sell any of these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Therefore none of the Company’s
state and political subdivision securities at December 31, 2011 were deemed to be other than temporarily impaired.
 
Mortgage-Backed Securities 
At December 31, 2011, most of the decline in market value and
the unrealized losses for the Company’s mortgaged-backed securities were backed by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises.
At December 31, 2011, there were eighteen securities that had an unrealized loss. The decline in market value and the unrealized
losses were primarily due to changes in spreads and market conditions and not credit quality. As of December 31, 2011, the Company
did not intend to sell and it was not more-likely-than-not that the Company would be required to sell any of these securities before
recovery of their amortized cost basis. Therefore none of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities at December 31, 2011 were
deemed to be other than temporarily impaired.
 

F-17
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
Equity Securities
The Company’s investments in marketable equity securities
consist primarily of a mutual fund, one equity portfolio fund and common stock of entities in the financial services industry.
At December 31, 2011, there were three securities that had an unrealized loss. These securities, other than the mutual fund which
had a fair value of $849 thousand and an unrealized loss of $1 thousand at December 31, 2011, have been adversely impacted by the
effects of the current economic environment on the financial services industry. We evaluated each of the underlying banks for credit
impairment based on its financial condition and performance. Based on our evaluation and the Company’s ability and intent
to hold those investments for a reasonable period of time sufficient for a forecasted recovery of amortized cost, the Company does
not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2011. We continue to closely monitor the performance
of the securities we own as well as the impact from any further deterioration in the economy or in the banking industry that may
adversely affect these securities. The Company will continue to evaluate them for other-than-temporary impairment, which could
result in a future non-cash charge to earnings.
 
During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recognized a
$231 thousand pre-tax ($183 thousand after-tax, or $0.06 per share) non-cash other-than-temporarily impaired charge related to
an equity portfolio fund and common stock. The Company recognized a $144 thousand charge on the equity portfolio fund comprised
of common stocks of bank holding companies that had an amortized cost of $250 thousand and a termination date of December 2011.
The additional $87 thousand impairment charge was recognized on a common stock that had an amortized cost of $230 thousand. The
impairment was recognized because the market value of this security was below the Company’s amortized cost for an extended
period of time along with credit deterioration in some of the underlying collateral and it was not believed the market value of
this security would recover to the Company’s amortized cost.
 
Held to Maturity Securities
 
The amortized cost and approximate fair value of securities
held to maturity as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are summarized as follows:
 


  
   
Gross  
Gross  
  

  
Amortized  
Unrealized  
Unrealized  
Fair 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Cost  
Gains  
Losses  
Value 

  
   
   
   
  

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
   

State and political subdivisions 
$4,220  
$125  
$-  
$4,345 

  
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
   

State and political subdivisions 
$1,000  
$7  
$-  
$1,007 

 
There were no securities in the held to maturity portfolio on
December 31, 2011 or 2010 with unrealized losses.
 

F-18
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
The amortized cost and carrying value of securities held to
maturity at December 31, 2011 are shown below by contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities
as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
 


  
Amortized  
Fair 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Cost  
Value 

  
   
  

Due in one year or less 
$1,580  
$1,585 

Due after one year through five years 
 -  
 - 

Due after five years through ten years 
 1,063  
 1,082 

Due after ten years 
 1,577  
 1,678 

Total held to maturity securities 
$4,220  
$4,345 

 


NOTE 5 – LOANS

 
The composition of net loans receivable at December 31,
2011 and 2010 is as follows:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

  
   
  

Commercial and industrial loans 
$13,711  
$15,045 

Construction 
 8,520  
 20,862 

Commercial real estate 
 216,191  
 204,407 

Residential real estate 
 100,175  
 96,659 

Consumer and other 
 1,336  
 1,395 

  
 339,933  
 338,368 

Unearned net loan origination fees 
 (228) 
 (134)

Allowance for loan losses 
 (7,210) 
 (6,397)

Net loans receivable 
$332,495  
$331,837 

 
Mortgage loans serviced for others are not included in the accompanying
balance sheets. The total amount of loans serviced for the benefit of others was approximately $852 thousand and $1.2 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 


NOTE 6 – ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES AND CREDIT QUALITY OF FINANCING

RECEIVABLES

 
The following table presents changes in the allowance for loan
losses disaggregated by the class of loans receivable for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
Commercial  
   
Commercial  
Residential  
   
   
  

(Dollars in thousands) 
and Industrial  
Construction  
Real Estate  
Real Estate  
Consumer  
Unallocated  
Total 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

December 31, 2011: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Beginning balance 
$436  
$1,183  
$3,760  
$798  
$56  
$164  
$6,397 

Charge-offs 
 (24) 
 (909) 
 (2,057) 
 (12) 
 (40) 
 -  
 (3,042)

Recoveries 
 6  
 516  
 8  
 -  
 19  
 -  
 549 

Provision 
 (114) 
 (496) 
 3,122  
 201  
 (26) 
 619  
 3,306 

Ending balance 
$304  
$294  
$4,833  
$987  
$9  
$783  
$7,210 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Beginning balance 
$379  
$1,387  
$3,283  
$323  
$94  
$30  
$5,496 

Charge-offs 
 (241) 
 (768) 
 (1,462) 
 -  
 (55) 
 -  
 (2,526)

Recoveries 
 126  
 -  
 2  
 -  
 19  
 -  
 147 

Provision 
 172  
 564  
 1,937  
 475  
 (2) 
 134  
 3,280 

Ending balance 
$436  
$1,183  
$3,760  
$798  
$56  
$164  
$6,397 

 

F-19
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
The following table presents the balance
in the allowance of loan losses at December 31, 2011 and 2010 disaggregated on the basis of our impairment method by class of loans
receivable along with the balance of loans receivable by class disaggregated on the basis of our impairment methodology:	
 


  
Allowance for Loan Losses  
Loans Receivable 

  
   
Balance  
Balance  
   
   
  

  
   
Related to  
Related to  
   
   
  

  
   
Loans  
Loans  
   
Individually  
Collectively 

  
   
Individually  
Collectively  
   
Evaluated  
Evaluated 

  
   
Evaluated  
Evaluated  
   
for  
for 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Balance  
Impairment  
Impairment  
Balance  
Impairment  
Impairment 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

December 31, 2011: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$304  
$16  
$288  
$13,711  
$32  
$13,679 

Construction 
 294  
 50  
 244  
 8,520  
 2,458  
 6,062 

Commercial real estate 
 4,833  
 1,572  
 3,261  
 216,191  
 22,722  
 193,469 

Residential real estate 
 987  
 319  
 668  
 100,175  
 2,482  
 97,693 

Consumer and other loans 
 9  
 -  
 9  
 1,336  
 -  
 1,336 

Unallocated 
 783  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Total 
$7,210  
$1,957  
$4,470  
$339,933  
$27,694  
$312,239 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$436  
$54  
$382  
$15,045  
$78  
$14,967 

Construction 
 1,183  
 610  
 573  
 20,862  
 6,636  
 14,226 

Commercial real estate 
 3,760  
 493  
 3,267  
 204,407  
 15,514  
 188,893 

Residential real estate 
 798  
 233  
 565  
 96,659  
 1,244  
 95,415 

Consumer and other loans 
 56  
 -  
 56  
 1,395  
 -  
 1,395 

Unallocated 
 164  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Total 
$6,397  
$1,390  
$4,843  
$338,368  
$23,472  
$314,896 

 
An age analysis of loans receivable which were past due as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:
 


  
   
   
   
   
   
   
Recorded 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
Investment 

  
   
   
Greater  
   
   
Total  
> 90 Days 

  
30-59 Days  
60-89 days  
Than  
Total Past  
   
Financing  
and 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Past Due  
Past Due  
90 Days (a)  
Due  
Current  
Receivables  
Accruing 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$428  
$-  
$32  
$460  
$13,251  
$13,711  
$- 

Construction 
 558  
 -  
 3,243  
 3,801  
 4,719  
 8,520  
 785 

Commercial real estate 
 5,238  
 137  
 19,311  
 24,686  
 191,505  
 216,191  
 - 

Residential real estate 
 940  
 -  
 2,482  
 3,422  
 96,753  
 100,175  
 - 

Consumer and other 
 17  
 1  
 18  
 36  
 1,300  
 1,336  
 18 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$7,181  
$138  
$25,086  
$32,405  
$307,528  
$339,933  
$803 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$182  
$229  
$98  
$509  
$14,536  
$15,045  
$20 

Construction 
 -  
 -  
 6,430  
 6,430  
 14,432  
 20,862  
 - 

Commercial real estate 
 2,316  
 3,946  
 14,959  
 21,221  
 183,186  
 204,407  
 29 

Residential real estate 
 3,029  
 -  
 1,244  
 4,273  
 92,386  
 96,659  
 - 

Consumer and other 
 3  
 16  
 -  
 19  
 1,376  
 1,395  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$5,530  
$4,191  
$22,731  
$32,452  
$305,916  
$338,368  
$49 

 
(a) includes loans greater than 90 days past due and still accruing
and non-accrual loans
 

F-20
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
Loans which the accrual of interest has been discontinued at
December 31, 2011 and 2010 were:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

  
   
  

Commercial and industrial 
$32  
$78 

Construction 
 2,458  
 6,430 

Commercial real estate 
 19,311  
 14,930 

Residential real estate 
 2,482  
 1,244 

Consumer and other 
 -  
 - 

  
    
   

Total 
$24,283  
$22,682 

 
In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses,
the Company estimates losses based on the identification of specific problem loans through its credit review process and also estimates
losses inherent in other loans on an aggregate basis by loan type. The credit review process includes the independent evaluation
of the loan officer assigned risk ratings by the Chief Credit Officer and a third party loan review company. Such risk ratings
are assigned loss component factors that reflect the Company’s loss estimate for each group of loans. It is management’s
and the board of directors’ responsibility to oversee the lending process to ensure that all credit risks are properly identified,
monitored, and controlled, and that loan pricing, terms, and other safeguards against non-performance and default are commensurate
with the level of risk undertaken and is rated as such based on a risk-rating system. Factors considered in assigning risk ratings
and loss component factors include: borrower specific information related to expected future cash flows and operating results,
collateral values, financial condition, payment status and other information; levels of and trends in portfolio charge-offs and
recoveries; levels in portfolio delinquencies; effects of changes in loan concentrations and observed trends in the economy and
other qualitative measurements.
 
The Company’s risk-rating system as defined below is consistent
with the system used by regulatory agencies and consistent with industry practices. Loans rated Substandard, Doubtful or Loss is
consistent with the regulatory definitions of classified assets.
 
Pass: This category represents loans performing
to contractual terms and conditions and the primary source of repayment is adequate to meet the obligation. The Company has 5 categories
within the Pass classification depending on strength of repayment sources, collateral values and financial condition of the borrower.
 
Special Mention: This category represents loans
performing to contractual terms and conditions; however the primary source of repayment or the borrower is exhibiting some deterioration
or weaknesses in financial condition that could potentially threaten the borrowers’ future ability to repay our loan principal
and interest or fees due.
 
Substandard: This category represents loans
that the primary source of repayment has significantly deteriorated or weakened which has or could threaten the borrowers’
ability to make scheduled payments. The weaknesses require close supervision by the Company’s management and there is a distinct
possibility that the Company could sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. Such weaknesses could jeopardize the
timely and ultimate collection of our loan principal and interest or fees due. Loss may not be expected or evident, however, loan
repayment is inadequately supported by current financial information or pledged collateral.
 
Doubtful: Loans so classified have all the
inherent weaknesses of a substandard loan with the added provision that collection or liquidation in full is highly questionable
and not reasonably assured. The probability of at least partial loss is high, but extraneous factors might strengthen the asset
to prevent loss. The validity of the extraneous factors must be continuously monitored. Once these factors are questionable the
loan should be considered for full or partial charge-off.
 

F-21
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
Loss: Loans so classified are considered uncollectible,
and of such little value that their continuance as active assets of the Company is not warranted. Such loans are fully charged
off.
 
The following tables illustrate the Company’s corporate
credit risk profile by creditworthiness category as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
   
Special  
   
   
  

(Dollars in thousands) 
Pass  
Mention  
Substandard  
Doubtful  
Total 

  
   
   
   
   
  

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$13,103  
$398  
$202  
$8  
$13,711 

Construction 
 5,057  
 -  
 3,463  
 -  
 8,520 

Commercial real estate 
 180,862  
 6,987  
 27,769  
 573  
 216,191 

Residential real estate 
 95,491  
 494  
 4,190  
 -  
 100,175 

Consumer and other 
 1,336  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,336 

  
$295,849  
$7,879  
$35,624  
$581  
$339,933 

  
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$14,268  
$679  
$75  
$23  
$15,045 

Construction 
 10,669  
 2,753  
 7,440  
 -  
 20,862 

Commercial real estate 
 162,147  
 19,880  
 21,920  
 460  
 204,407 

Residential real estate 
 93,884  
 1,083  
 1,681  
 11  
 96,659 

Consumer and other 
 1,382  
 -  
 13  
 -  
 1,395 

  
$282,350  
$24,395  
$31,129  
$494  
$338,368 

 
A loan is considered impaired, in accordance FASB ASC 310-10-35-16,
when based on current information and events, it is probable that the Corporation will be unable to collect all amounts due from
the borrower in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. Impaired loans include loans modified in troubled debt restructurings
where concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. These concessions could include a reduction
in the interest rate on the loan, payment extensions, postponement or forgiveness of principal, forbearance or other actions intended
to maximize collection. The average recorded investment in impaired loans is calculated using the average of impaired loans over
the past five quarter-end periods. The Company recognizes income on impaired loans under the cash basis when the collateral on
the loan is sufficient to cover the outstanding obligation to the Company. If these factors do not exist, the Company will record
all payments as a reduction of principal on such loans.
 

F-22
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
The following table reflects the Company’s impaired loans
as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
   
Unpaid  
   
Average  
Interest 

  
Recorded  
Principal  
Related  
Recorded  
Income 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Investment  
Balance  
Allowance  
Investment  
Recognized 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
   

With no related allowance recorded: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$-  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$- 

Construction 
 2,062  
 2,331  
 -  
 3,030  
 1 

Commercial real estate 
 10,362  
 12,932  
 -  
 11,547  
 198 

Residential real estate 
 1,758  
 1,757  
 -  
 1,235  
 58 

Consumer and other 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
   

With an allowance recorded: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
 32  
 32  
 16  
 72  
 - 

Construction 
 396  
 396  
 50  
 1,633  
 - 

Commercial real estate 
 12,404  
 12,399  
 1,572  
 9,335  
 150 

Residential real estate 
 732  
 724  
 319  
 676  
 1 

Consumer and other 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$32  
$32  
$16  
$72  
$- 

Construction 
 2,458  
 2,727  
 50  
 4,663  
 1 

Commercial real estate 
 22,766  
 25,331  
 1,572  
 20,882  
 348 

Residential real estate 
 2,490  
 2,481  
 319  
 1,911  
 59 

Consumer and other 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

  
$27,746  
$30,571  
$1,957  
$27,528  
$408 

  
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
   

With no related allowance recorded: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$-  
$-  
$-  
$188  
$- 

Construction 
 3,230  
 3,535  
 -  
 2,885  
 38 

Commercial real estate 
 4,863  
 5,284  
 -  
 8,122  
 118 

Residential real estate 
 560  
 560  
 -  
 849  
 7 

Consumer and other 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 9  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
   

With an allowance recorded: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
 78  
 78  
 54  
 71  
 - 

Construction 
 3,406  
 5,481  
 610  
 2,568  
 - 

Commercial real estate 
 10,651  
 11,453  
 493  
 10,379  
 299 

Residential real estate 
 684  
 684  
 233  
 449  
 1 

Consumer and other 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial and industrial 
$78  
$78  
$54  
$259  
$- 

Construction 
 6,636  
 9,016  
 610  
 5,453  
 38 

Commercial real estate 
 15,514  
 16,737  
 493  
 18,501  
 417 

Residential real estate 
 1,244  
 1,244  
 233  
 1,298  
 8 

Consumer and other 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 9  
 - 

  
$23,472  
$27,075  
$1,390  
$25,520  
$463 

 

F-23
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
Impaired loans include loans modified in
troubled debt restructurings where concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. These concessions
could include a reduction in the interest rate on the loan, payment extensions, postponement or forgiveness of principal, forbearance
or other actions intended to maximize collection.
 
The following table presents the recorded
investment in troubled debt restructured loans as of December 31, 2011 based on payment performance status:
 


 (Dollars
                                                                                                                                                              in
                                                                                                                                                              thousands) 
Commercial Real
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Estate  
Commercial
                                                                                                            
& Industrial  
 Total 

  
   
   
  

Performing 
$5,592  
$8  
$5,600 

Non-performing 
 2,682  
 -  
 2,682 

Total 
$8,274  
$8  
$8,282 

 
Troubled debt restructured loans are considered
impaired and are included in the previous impaired loans disclosures in this footnote. As of December 31, 2011, we have not committed
to lend additional amounts to customers with outstanding loans that are classified as troubled debt restructurings.
 
Troubled debt restructured loans can include
one or a combination of the following: an extension of the maturity date at a stated rate of interest lower than the current market
rate for new debt with similar risk; temporary reduction in the interest rate; change in scheduled payment amount; or permanent
reduction of the principal or interest of the loan.
 
The following tables summarize troubled
debt restructurings that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2011:
 


  
   
Pre-Modification  
Post-Modification 

  
   
Outstanding  
Outstanding 

  
Number  
Recorded  
Recorded 

(Dollars in thousands) 
of Contracts  
Investment  
Investment 

  
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
 1  
$1,535  
$1,535 

 
The troubled debt restructuring described
above did not require an allocation of the allowance for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2011. No charge-offs were
recorded during the twelve month period ending December 31, 2011.
 
The following table summarizes the troubled
debt restructurings for which there was a payment default within twelve months following the date of the restructuring for the
year ended December 31, 2011:
 


 (Dollars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 thousands) 
Number
                                                                                                            of Contracts  
Recorded Investment 

  
    
   

Commercial real estate 
 3  
$4,345 

 
Loans are considered to be in payment default
once it is greater than 30 days contractually past due under the modified terms. The troubled debt restructurings described above
that subsequently defaulted resulted in a net allocation of the allowance for credit losses of $262 thousand for the year ended
December 31, 2011. There were no charge-offs on these defaulted troubled debt restructurings during the twelve month period ended
December 31, 2011.
 


F-24
 


 
 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 


NOTE 7 – PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

 
The components of premises and equipment at December 31,
2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Land and land improvements 
$1,978  
$1,973 

Building and building improvements 
 5,898  
 5,891 

Leasehold improvements 
 393  
 396 

Furniture, fixtures and equipment 
 6,754  
 6,396 

Assets in progress 
 251  
 187 

  
 15,274  
 14,843 

Accumulated depreciation 
 (8,496) 
 (8,094)

Premises and equipment, net 
$6,778  
$6,749 

 
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, depreciation
expense totaled $597 thousand and $722 thousand, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding commitments
of approximately $2 thousand for computer software upgrades.
 


NOTE 8 – DEPOSITS

 
The components of deposits at December 31, 2011 and 2010
are as follows:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Non-interest bearing demand 
$44,762  
$35,362 

Savings, money market and interest-bearing demand 
 269,808  
 258,252 

Time deposits less than $100 thousand 
 70,868  
 62,094 

Time deposits $100 thousand and over 
 39,938  
 30,259 

Total deposits 
$425,376  
$385,967 

 
At December 31, 2011, the scheduled maturities of time
deposits are as follows (in thousands):
 


2012 
$58,518 

2013 
 19,356 

2014 
 6,467 

2015 
 4,395 

2016 
 21,720 

Thereafter 
 350 

  
$110,806 

 


NOTE 9 – BORROWINGS

 
At December 31, 2011, the Bank had secured borrowing potential
with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”) for borrowings of up to $53.9 million and a $4.0 million line
of credit at Atlantic Central Bankers Bank (“ACBB”). The borrowings at the FHLBNY are secured by a pledge of qualifying
residential and commercial mortgage loans, having an aggregate unpaid principal balance of approximately $75.5 million. At December
31, 2011, the Bank had the ability to borrow up to $27.9 million at FHLBNY and $4.0 million at ACBB.
 
Short-Term Borrowings
At December 31, 2010 the Bank had a $10.0 million short-term
advance with the FHLBNY at a rate of 0.38%, which matured on January 10, 2011.
 

F-25
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
Long-Term Borrowings
At December 31, 2011 and 2010 the Bank had the following
long-term borrowings from the FHLBNY (in thousands):
 


 Initial 
Interest  
Balance at December 31, 

Maturity Date Conversion Date 
Rate  
2011  
2010

December 7, 2016  
December 7, 2008 
 4.00% 
$5,000  
$5,000 

June 21, 2017  
June 21, 2008 
 4.60% 
 6,000  
 6,000 

December 7, 2017  
December 7, 2017 
 3.97% 
 5,000  
 5,000 

December 26, 2017  
December 26, 2009 
 3.66% 
 5,000  
 5,000 

December 26, 2017  
December 26, 2010 
 3.79% 
 5,000  
 5,000 

   
  
    
$26,000  
$26,000 

 
Maturities of debt in years subsequent to December 31,
2011 are as follows (in thousands):
 


2012 
$- 

2013 
 - 

2014 
 - 

2015 
 - 

2016 
 5,000 

Thereafter 
 21,000 

  
$26,000 

 
The above borrowings identified with an Initial Conversion Date
are convertible notes that contain an option which allows the FHLBNY, at quarterly intervals commencing after each initial conversion
date, to convert the fixed convertible advance into replacement funding for the same or lesser principal amount based on any advance
then offered by the FHLBNY at their current market rates. The Bank has the option to repay these advances, if converted, without
penalty.
 


NOTE 10 – JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES AND MANDATORY REDEEMABLE CAPITAL DEBENTURES

 
On June 28, 2007, Sussex Capital Trust II, a Delaware statutory
business trust and a non-consolidated wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, issued $12.5 million of variable rate capital trust
pass-through securities to investors. The variable interest rate was 1.99% at December 31, 2011 and reprices quarterly at the three
month LIBOR plus 1.44%. Sussex Capital Trust II purchased $12.9 million of variable rate junior subordinated deferrable interest
debentures from Sussex Bancorp. The debentures are the sole asset of the Trust. The terms of the junior subordinated debentures
are the same as the terms of the capital securities. Sussex Bancorp has also fully and unconditionally guaranteed the obligations
of the Trust under the capital securities. The capital securities are redeemable by Sussex Bancorp during the first five years
at a redemption price of 103.5% of par for the first year and thereafter on a sliding scale down to 100% of par on or after September
15, 2012, in whole or in part or earlier if the deduction of related interest for federal income taxes is prohibited, classification
as Tier I Capital is no longer allowed, or certain other contingencies arise. The capital securities must be redeemed upon final
maturity of the subordinated debentures on September 15, 2037.
 

F-26
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
NOTE 11 – LEASE COMMITMENTS AND TOTAL RENTAL EXPENSE
 
The Company has operating lease agreements expiring in various
years through 2020. The Company has the option to extend the lease agreements for additional lease terms. The Company is responsible
to pay all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and maintenance and repairs on its leased facilities.
 
Future minimum lease payments by year are as follows (in thousands):
 


2012 
$441 

2013 
 436 

2014 
 247 

2015 
 172 

2016 
 40 

Thereafter 
 52 

  
$1,388 

 
Rent expense was $497 thousand and $468 thousand for the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 


NOTE 12 – EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

 
The Company has a 401(k) Plan and Trust for its employees. Non-highly
compensated employees may contribute up to the statutory limit of 75% of their salary to the Plan. Highly compensated employees
are restricted to a contribution up to 7% of their salary. The Company provides a 50% match of the employee's contribution up to
6% of the employee's annual salary. The Company had temporarily suspended the employer match from April 2009 to September 2010.
The amount charged to expense related to this Plan for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $119 thousand and $32 thousand,
respectively.
 
The Company also maintains nonqualified Supplemental Salary
Continuation Plans covering the Company’s former Chairman and a former executive officer of the Company. Under the provisions
of the Plans, the Company has executed agreements providing the officers a retirement benefit. Payments from the Plan for the Chairman
began in May of 2008 and the other executive started in April of 2010. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, $76 thousand
and $80 thousand, respectively was charged to expense in connection with the Plans.
 
In March of 2005, the Board of Directors approved an Executive
Incentive and Deferred Compensation Plan. The purpose of the Plan is to motivate and reward for achieving bank financial and strategic
goals as well as to provide specified benefits to a select group of management or highly compensated employees who contribute materially
to the continued growth, development and future business success of the Company. No incentive compensation
was recorded under the Plan for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Participants may elect to receive their award or defer
compensation in a deferral account which will earn interest at the average interest rate earned by the Company in its investment
portfolio, compounded monthly. As of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the carrying value of deferred compensation was
$66 thousand and $59 thousand, respectively.
 
In July 2006, the Board of Directors adopted a Director Deferred
Compensation Agreement for both the Bank and the Company (the “DCA”). Under the terms of the DCA, a director may elect
to defer all or a portion of his retainer and fees for the coming year. Under the DCA, only the payment of the compensation earned
is deferred, and there is no deferral of the expense in the Company’s financial statements related to the participant’s
deferred compensation, which will be charged to the Company’s income statement as an expense in the period in which the participant
earned the compensation. The deferred amounts are credited with earnings at a rate equal to the average interest rate earned by
the Company on its investment portfolio or at a rate that tracks the performance of the Company’s common stock. The participant’s
benefit will be distributed to the participant or his beneficiary upon a change in control of the Company, the termination of the
DCA, the occurrence of an unforeseeable emergency, the termination of service or the participant’s death or disability. Upon
distribution, a participant’s benefit will be paid in monthly installments over a period of ten (10) years. As of the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, $177 thousand and $185 thousand, respectively, have been deferred.
 

F-27
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
The Company had an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the “ESOP”)
for the benefit of all employees who met the eligibility requirements set forth in the Plan. The amount of employer contributions
to the Plan was at the discretion of the Board of Directors. There were no contributions charged to expense for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010. The Plan was dissolved in December 2011 and distributions to all active participants were made in the
Company’s common stock. At December 31, 2011 there were no shares left in the Plan and at December 31, 2010 there were 53,226
shares of the Company's common stock held in the Plan.
 


NOTE 13 – COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

 
Accounting principles generally require that recognized revenue,
expenses, gains and losses be included in net income. Although certain changes in assets and liabilities, such as unrealized gains
and losses on available for sale securities, are reported as a separate component of the equity section of the balance sheet, such
items, along with net income, are components of comprehensive income.
 
The components of other comprehensive income (loss) and related
tax effects for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
    
   

Unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale securities 
$1,534  
$(281)

Less: reclassification adjustments for realized gains (losses) 
 414  
 (119)

   and impairment write-downs included in net income 
    
   

Net unrealized gains (losses) 
 1,120  
 (162)

Tax effect (benefit) 
 (448) 
 64 

Net of tax amount 
$672  
$(98)

 


NOTE 14 – EARNINGS PER SHARE

 
The following table sets forth the computations of basic and
diluted earnings per share:
 


  
Income  
Shares  
Per Share 

(In Thousands, Except per Share Amounts) 
(Numerator)  
(Denominator)  
Amount 

  
   
   
  

Year Ended December 31, 2011: 
    
    
   

Basic earnings per share: 
    
    
   

Net income applicable to common stockholders 
$2,470  
 3,256  
$0.76 

Effect of dilutive securities: 
    
    
   

Non-vested stock awards 
 -  
 71  
   

Diluted earnings per share: 
    
    
   

Net income applicable to common stockholders and assumed conversions 
$2,470  
 3,327  
$0.74 

  
    
    
   

Year Ended December 31, 2010: 
    
    
   

Basic earnings per share: 
    
    
   

Net income applicable to common stockholders 
$2,176  
 3,250  
$0.67 

Effect of dilutive securities: 
    
    
   

Non-vested stock awards 
 -  
 50  
   

Diluted earnings per share: 
    
    
   

Net income applicable to common stockholders and assumed conversions 
$2,176  
 3,300  
$0.66 

 
Options to purchase 111,034 and 116,075 shares of common stock
were outstanding during December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because
the options’ exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares.
 

F-28
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 


NOTE 15 – STOCK OPTION PLANS

 
During 2005, the stockholders approved the 2004 Equity Incentive
Plan to provide equity incentives to selected persons. Awards may be granted to employees, officers, directors, consultants and
advisors of the Company or subsidiary. Awards granted under the Plan may be either stock options or restricted stock and are designated
at the time of grant. Options granted under the Plan to directors, consultants and advisors are non-qualified stock options. Options
granted to officers and other employees may be incentive stock options or non-qualified stock options. Restricted stock awards
may be made to any plan participant. As of December 31, 2011, there were 72,946 shares available for future grants under the Plan.
 
Information regarding the Company's restricted stock grants
activity for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:


  
2011  
2010 

  
   
Weighted  
   
Weighted 

  
   
Average  
   
Average 

  
Number of  
Grant Date  
Number of  
Grant Date 

  
Shares  
Fair Value  
Shares  
Fair Value 

  
   
   
   
  

Restricted stock, beginning of year 
 101,991  
$4.71  
 13,975  
$8.34 

Granted 
 25,305  
 6.10  
 95,303  
 4.44 

Forfeited 
 (3,858) 
 5.89  
 (2,743) 
 5.52 

Vested 
 (7,709) 
 6.47  
 (4,544) 
 9.65 

Restricted stock, end of year 
 115,729  
$4.86  
 101,991  
$4.71 

 
Total stock-based compensation related to restricted stock awards
was $94 thousand and $65 thousand for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. As of December 31,
2011 and 2010, there were $456 thousand and $420 thousand, respectively, of unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested
restricted stock awards which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 4.1 years and 5.2 years.
 
Remaining unvested restricted stock grants at December 31, 2011
are expected to vest as follows:
 


  
Number of shares 

  
   

2012 
 27,014 

2013 
 28,253 

2014 
 24,883 

2015 
 17,008 

2016 
 17,008 

2017 
 1,563 

  
 115,729 

 
Restricted stock activity for the years ended December 31, 2011
and 2010 are as follows:
 


  
Number of Shares 

  
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Accumulated shares granted 
 138,826  
 117,379 

Vested during the year 
 7,709  
 4,544 

  

F-29
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
Options granted under the 2001 stock option plan and the 2004
equity incentive plan to officers and other employees and which are incentive stock options, are subject to limitations under Section
422 of the Internal Revenue Code. The option price under each such grant shall not be less than the fair market value on the date
of the grant. No option will be granted for a term in excess of 10 years. The Company may establish a vesting schedule that must
be satisfied before the options may be exercised. There are 43,414 options outstanding under the 2001 stock option plan and no
outstanding stock options outstanding under the 2004 equity incentive plan at December 31, 2011.
 
During 1995, the stockholders approved a stock option plan for
nonemployee directors (the Directors’ Plan) and an Incentive Stock Option Plan for employees. In 2001 the stockholders approved
the 2001 Stock Option Plan to provide equity incentives to employees, officers and directors. Both of these plans expired ten years
following their approval, and therefore there at December 31, 2011 there were no authorized shares left to be granted in either
plan. However as of December 31, 2011, 67,620 options were outstanding and will expire between July 2012 and October 2014 in the
1995 plan and 43,414 options were outstanding under the 2001 plan which will expire between October of 2012 and October of 2015.
 
Stock option transactions under all plans are summarized as
follows:
 


  
   
Weighted  
Weighted  
  

  
Number of  
Average Exercise  
Average  
Aggregate 

  
Shares  
Price per Share  
Contractual Term  
Intrinsic Value 

  
   
   
   
  

Outstanding, December 31, 2009 
 187,362  
$12.43  
    
   

Options expired 
 (1,234) 
 6.87  
    
   

Options forfeited 
 (70,053) 
 12.69  
    
   

Outstanding, December 31, 2010 
 116,075  
 12.33  
    
   

Options forfeited 
 (5,041) 
 13.94  
    
   

Outstanding, December 31, 2011 
 111,034  
$12.25  
 2.03  
$- 

Exercisable, December 31, 2011 
 111,034  
$12.25  
 2.03  
$- 

 
The following table summarizes information about stock options
outstanding at December 31, 2011:
 


Exercise 
Number  
Remaining  
Number 

Price 
Outstanding  
Contractual Life (Years)  
Exercisable 

  
    
    
   

8.86 
 19,483  
 1.1  
 19,483 

8.90 
 5,788  
 0.1  
 5,788 

8.99 
 11,447  
 1.8  
 11,447 

9.33 
 5,875  
 0.8  
 5,875 

12.63 
 7,826  
 3.8  
 7,826 

13.39 
 16,540  
 3.1  
 16,540 

14.67 
 37,367  
 2.1  
 37,367 

16.45 
 6,708  
 2.8  
 6,708 

  
 111,034  
    
 111,034 

 
There were no stock options exercised during 2011 and no intrinsic
value to the stock options outstanding at December 31, 2011.
 

F-30
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 


NOTE 16 – INCOME TAXES 

 
The Company and its subsidiary are subject to U.S. federal and
state income tax. The components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Current: 
    
   

Federal 
$744  
$525 

State 
 271  
 142 

  
 1,015  
 667 

Deferred: 
    
   

Federal 
 (269) 
 (122)

State 
 (109) 
 (3)

  
 (378) 
 (125)

  
$637  
$542 

 
The reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax at a
rate of 34% to the income tax expense included in the statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
is as follows:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
   
  

Federal income tax at statutory rate 
$1,056  
 34% 
$924  
 34%

Tax exempt interest 
 (399) 
 (13) 
 (382) 
 (14)

State income tax, net of federal income tax effect 
 106  
 4  
 92  
 3 

Bank owned life insurance 
 (142) 
 (5) 
 (107) 
 (4)

Other 
 16  
 1  
 15  
 1 

  
$637  
 21% 
$542  
 20%

 
The income tax provision includes $258 thousand and $21 thousand
in 2011 and 2010, respectively, of income tax expense related to net gains on sales of securities.
 
The components of the net deferred tax asset at December 31,
2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Deferred tax assets: 
    
   

Allowance for loan losses 
$2,880  
$2,555 

Deferred compensation 
 504  
 606 

AMT credit 
 -  
 110 

Foreclosed real estate 
 89  
 56 

Intangible assets 
 40  
 46 

Restricted stock 
 77  
 47 

OTTI impairment 
 96  
 - 

Other 
 131  
 7 

Total deferred tax assets 
 3,817  
 3,427 

Deferred tax liabilities: 
    
   

Depreciation 
 (209) 
 (180)

Prepaid Expenses 
 (154) 
 (171)

Unrealized gain on securities, available for sale 
 (480) 
 (32)

Total deferred tax liabilities 
 (843) 
 (383)

Net deferred tax asset 
$2,974  
$3,044 

 

F-31
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 


NOTE 17 – TRANSACTIONS WITH EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS

 
The Company has had, and may be expected to have in the future,
banking transactions in the ordinary course of business with its executive officers, directors, principal stockholders, their immediate
families and affiliated companies (commonly referred to as related parties), on the same terms, including interest rates and collateral,
as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with others.
 
The related party loan activity for the year ended December 31,
2011 is summarized as follows:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011 

  
   

Balance, beginning 
$4,266 

Disbursements 
 865 

Repayments and other 
 (432)

Balance, ending 
$4,699 

 
 
Two related parties with loan obligations totaling $257 thousand
as of December 31, 2010 were no longer required to be reported as of December 31, 2011 and are included under repayments for the
year ended December 31, 2011.
 
Certain related parties of the Company provided legal services
and appraisal services to the Company. Such for legal services rendered totaled $24 thousand and $13 thousand during 2011 and 2010,
respectively, while other related parties provided appraisals services totaling $13 thousand and $3 thousand during 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The Company paid rent to related parties for an office location in the amount of $177 thousand in 2011 and $174 thousand
in 2010.
 


NOTE 18 – FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK

 
The Company is a party to financial instruments with off-balance
sheet risk in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its customers. These financial instruments include commitments
to extend credit and letters of credit. Those instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit risk in excess of the
amount recognized in the balance sheet.
 
The Company's exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance
by the other party to the financial instrument for commitments to extend credit is represented by the contractual amount of those
instruments. The Company uses the same credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as it does for on-balance
sheet instruments.
 
A summary of the Company's financial instrument commitments
at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
    
   

Commitments to grant loans 
$10,308  
$12,631 

Unfunded commitments under lines of credit 
 26,079  
 30,506 

Outstanding standby letters of credit 
 1,576  
 2,103 

 
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer
as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Since many of the commitments are expected to expire
without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Commitments generally
have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. The Company evaluates each customer's
credit worthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary by the Company upon extension
of credit, is based on management's credit evaluation. Collateral held varies but may include personal or commercial real estate,
accounts receivable, inventory and equipment.
 

F-32
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
Outstanding letters of credit are conditional commitments issued
by the Company to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. The Company’s exposure to credit loss in the
event of nonperformance by the other party to the financial instrument for standby letters of credit is represented by the contractual
amount of those instruments. These standby letters of credit expire within twelve months, although many have automatic renewal
provisions. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending other loan
commitments. The Company requires collateral and personal guarantees supporting these letters of credit as deemed necessary. Management
believes that the proceeds obtained through a liquidation of such collateral and enforcement of personal guarantees would be sufficient
to cover the maximum potential amount of future payments required under the corresponding guarantees. The current amount of the
liability as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 for guarantees under standby letters of credit issued is not material.
 


NOTE 19 – REGULATORY MATTERS

 
The Company is required to maintain cash reserve balances either
in vault cash or with the Federal Reserve Bank. The total of those reserve balances was approximately $1.5 million at December 31,
2011.
 
The Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements
administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet the minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and
possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company’s
financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Bank must
meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Bank’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance
sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The Bank’s capital amounts and classification are also subject
to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk-weightings and other factors.
 
Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital
adequacy require the Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth below) of total and Tier I capital (as defined
in the regulations) to risk-weighted assets, and of Tier I capital to average assets. Management believes, as of December 31,
2011, that the Bank meets all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.
 
As of December 31, 2011, the most recent notification from
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation categorized the Bank as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective
action. There are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the Bank’s category.
 
The Bank’s actual capital amounts and ratios at December 31,
2011 and 2010 are presented below:
 



 
   
   
   
   
To be Well Capitalized  

 
   
   
   
   
under Prompt  

 
  
   
For Capital Adequacy   
Corrective Action 

 
Actual   
Purposes  
Provisions 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio 

As of December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total capital (to risk-weighted assets): 
$50,541  
 14.31% 
$>28,260  
 >8.00%  
$>35,325  
 >10.00% 

Tier I capital (to risk-weighted assets): 
 46,091  
 13.05  
 >14,130  
 >4.00  
 >21,195  
 >6.00 

Tier I capital (to average assets): 
 46,091  
 9.29  
 >19,853  
 >4.00  
 >24,816  
 >5.00 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

As of December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total capital (to risk-weighted assets): 
$47,636  
 13.63% 
$>27,959  
 >8.00%  
$>34,949  
 >10.00% 

Tier I capital (to risk-weighted assets): 
 43,242  
 12.37  
 >13,980  
 >4.00  
 >20,969  
 >6.00 

Tier I capital (to average assets): 
 43,242  
 9.04  
 >19,140  
 >4.00  
 >23,925  
 >5.00 


  

F-33
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
The Bank is subject to certain restrictions on the amount of
dividends that it may declare due to regulatory considerations. The State of New Jersey banking laws specify that no dividend shall
be paid by the Bank on its capital stock unless, following the payment of such dividend, the capital stock of the Bank will be
unimpaired and the Bank will have a surplus of not less than 50% of its capital stock or, if not, the payment of such dividend
will not reduce the surplus of the Bank.
 
At December 31, 2011, the Bank’s funds available
for payment of dividends were $41.4 million. Accordingly, $7.5 million of the Company’s equity in the net assets of the Bank
was restricted as of December 31, 2011.
 
In addition, dividends paid by the Bank to the Company would
be prohibited if the effect thereof would cause the Bank’s capital to be reduced below applicable minimum capital requirements.
 
NOTE 20 – PARENT
COMPANY ONLY FINANCIAL 
 
Condensed financial information pertaining only to the parent
company, Sussex Bancorp, is as follows:
 


STATEMENT OF CONDITION 
   
  

  
December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Assets 
    
   

Cash 
$704  
$856 

Investment in subsidiary 
 50,044  
 46,677 

Securities, available for sale 
 340  
 474 

Loans 
 598  
 967 

Foreclosed Real Estate 
 99  
 - 

Accrued interest and other assets 
 1,130  
 705 

Total Assets 
$52,915  
$49,679 

  
    
   

Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity 
    
   

Other liabilities 
$126  
$126 

Junior subordinated debentures 
 12,887  
 12,887 

Stockholders' equity 
 39,902  
 36,666 

Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity 
$52,915  
$49,679 

 


STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
   
  

  
Year Ended December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Interest and fees on loans 
$57  
$61 

Interest on investments 
 13  
 16 

Net realized loss on sale of securities 
 (2) 
 (3)

Impairment charge on equity securities 
 (231) 
 (171)

Interest expense on debentures 
 (222) 
 (225)

Other expenses 
 (132) 
 (181)

Loss before Income Tax Benefit and Equity in Undistributed Net Income of Banking Subsidiary 
 (517) 
 (503)

Income tax benefit 
 176  
 171 

Loss before Equity in Undistributed Net Income of Banking Subsidiary 
 (341) 
 (332)

Equity in undistributed net income of banking subsidiary 
 2,424  
 2,121 

Equity in undistributed net income of non-banking subsidiary 
 387  
 387 

Net Income 
$2,470  
$2,176 

 

F-34
 

 


SUSSEX BANCORP

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 


STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
   
  

  
Year Ended December 31, 

(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Cash Flows from Operating Activities: 
    
   

Net Income 
$2,470  
$2,176 

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by 
    
   

operating activities: 
    
   

Impairment charge on equity securities 
 231  
 171 

Net change in other assets and liabilities 
 (409) 
 19 

Equity in undistributed net income of banking subsidiary 
 (2,811) 
 (2,508)

Net Used in Operating Activities 
 (519) 
 (142)

  
    
   

Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities: 
    
   

Securities available for sale: 
    
   

Purchases 
 -  
 (76)

Sales 
 67  
 80 

Maturities, calls and principal repayments 
 30  
 131 

Net decrease in loans 
 270  
 37 

Net Cash Provided by Investing Activities 
 367  
 172 

  
    
   

Cash Flows from Financing Activities: 
    
   

Purchase of treasury stock 
 -  
 (4)

Net Cash Used by Financing Activities 
 -  
 (4)

  
    
   

Net (Decrease) Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 (152) 
 26 

  
    
   

Cash and Cash Equivalents - Beginning of Year 
 856  
 830 

Cash and Cash Equivalents - End of Year 
$704  
$856 

 


NOTE 21 – CONTINGENCIES

 
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to
various lawsuits involving matters generally incidental to its business.  Management is of the opinion that the ultimate liability,
if any, resulting from any pending actions or proceedings will not have a material effect on the financial condition or results
of operations of the Company.
 

F-35
 

 
EXHIBIT LIST
 



Exhibit
Number
 

Description

3.1
 
Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on December 13, 1996.)

3.2
 
Amended and Restated By-laws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.II to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 28, 2010.)

10.1*
 
1995 Incentive Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to the Registration Statement on Form 8-B filed with the SEC on December 13, 1996.)

10.2*
 
2001 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14-A filed with the SEC on March 19, 2001.)

10.3*
 
2004 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit C to the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14-A filed with the SEC on March 15, 2005.)

10.4*
 
Amended and Restated Director Deferred Compensation Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 19, 2008.)

10.5*
 
Amended and Restated Executive Incentive and Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 26, 2010.)

10.6*
 
Employment Agreement by and between the Company, the Bank and Donald L. Kovach, dated July 15, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 20, 2009.)

10.8*
 
Salary Continuation Agreement, dated March 15, 2000, by and between the Company and Donald L. Kovach (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 16, 2011.)

10.9*
 
Amendment #1 to the Salary Continuation Agreement with Donald L. Kovach dated June 11, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 16, 2011.)

10.10*
 
Amendment #2 to the Salary Continuation Agreement with Donald L. Kovach dated January 7, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 23, 2004.)

10.11*
 
Amendment #3 to the Salary Continuation Agreement with Donald L. Kovach dated October 17, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on November 14, 2007.)

10.12*
 
Employment Agreement by and between the Bank and Tammy Case dated February 20, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.B to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 26, 2008.)

10.13*
 
Employment Agreement by and between Tri-State Insurance Agency, Inc. and George Lista dated September 1, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.A to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 7, 2006.)

10.14*
 
Employment Agreement by and between the Company, Bank and Anthony Labozzetta dated January 20, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 26, 2010.)

10.15*
 
Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement, dated July 20, 2011, by and between Sussex Bancorp and Anthony J. Labozzetta (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 26, 2011.)

10.16*
 
Employment Agreement by and between the Company, Bank and Steven M. Fusco dated June 23, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 29, 2010.)

21.1†
 
List of Subsidiaries.

23.1†
 
Consent of ParenteBeard LLC.

31.1†
 
Certification of pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2†
 
Certification of pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1†
 
Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 

 
 

  


101**
 
Financial statements from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Sussex Bancorp for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

  
 

†           Filed
herewith.
*           Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
**         Pursuant to Rule 406T of
Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files on Exhibit 101 hereto are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus
for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under those sections.
 


 






