
10-K
1
d254911d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
  


x
Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011   


¨
Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the Transition Period
from            to             Commission File Number 1-5581   
   


 WATSCO, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   






FLORIDA
 
59-0778222

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 2665 South Bayshore Drive, Suite 901, Miami, FL 33133 
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) 
(305) 714-4100  (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common stock, $0.50 par value
 
 New York Stock Exchange and the Professional Segment of
NYSE Euronext in Paris

Class B common stock, $0.50 par value
 
NYSE Amex
 Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: 
None   
  Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    YES  x    NO  ¨  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    YES  ¨    NO  x  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    YES  x    NO  ¨  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).    YES  x    NO  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   













 
Large accelerated filer
 
x
  
Accelerated filer
 
¨








 
Non-accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    YES  ¨    NO  x  The aggregate market value of the registrant’s voting stock (common stock) held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2011, the last business day of the registrant’s most
recently completed second fiscal quarter, was approximately $1,712 million, based on the closing sale price of the registrant’s common stock on that date. For purposes of determining this number all executive officers and directors of the
registrant as of June 30, 2011 were considered to be affiliates of the registrant. This number is provided only for the purposes of this report on Form 10-K and does not represent an admission by either the registrant or any such person as to
the status of such person.  The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 24, 2012 was (i) 28,359,924 shares of
Common stock, excluding treasury shares of 6,322,650, and (ii) 4,660,931 shares of Class B common stock, excluding treasury shares of 48,263.   
  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Certain information required by Parts I and II is incorporated by reference from the Registrant’s 2011
Annual Report, attached hereto as Exhibit 13. The information required by Part III (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated by reference from the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders (to be
filed pursuant to Regulation 14A).     
 


Table of Contents
WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
   
Index to 2011 Annual Report  on Form 10-K  Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 










  
 
 
  
Page
 

 PART I
 

  








 Item 1.
 
Business
  
 
3
  





 Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
  
 
8
  





 Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
11
  





 Item 2.
 
Properties
  
 
11
  





 Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
  
 
12
  





 Item 4.
 
Mine Safety Disclosure
  
 
12
  





 PART II
 

  








 Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
12
  





 Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
  
 
14
  





 Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
14
  





 Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
 
14
  





 Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
14
  





 Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
14
  





 Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
  
 
14
  





 Item 9B.
 
Other Information
  
 
14
  





 PART III
 

  
 
15
  





 PART IV
 

  








 Item 15.
 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
15
  




 SIGNATURES
  
 
18
  

  2 


Table of Contents
PART I 
 


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS  General 
Watsco, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Watsco,” or we, us or our) was incorporated
in 1956 and is the largest distributor of air conditioning, heating and refrigeration equipment and related parts and supplies (“HVAC/R”) in the HVAC/R distribution industry. At December 31, 2011 we operated from 542 locations in 38
states, Mexico and Puerto Rico with additional market coverage on an export basis to Latin America and the Caribbean, through which we serve more than 50,000 contractors and dealers that service the replacement and new construction markets. Our
revenues in HVAC/R distribution have increased from $64.1 million in 1989 to $2.98 billion in 2011 via a strategy of acquiring companies with established market positions and subsequently building revenues and profit through a combination of adding
locations, products, services and other initiatives.   Our principal executive office is located at 2665 South Bayshore Drive, Suite
901, Miami, Florida 33133, and our telephone number is (305) 714-4100. Our website address on the Internet is www.watsco.com and e-mails may be sent to info@watsco.com. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by
reference of the information contained on, or linked to, the website and none of such information is part of this report.  Residential
Central Air Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Industry  The HVAC/R distribution industry is highly fragmented with more than 2,300
distribution companies. The industry is well-established, having had its primary period of growth during the post-World War II era with the advent of affordable central air conditioning and heating systems for both residential and commercial
applications.  Based on data published in 2011 by the Air Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute and other available data, we
estimate the market for residential central air conditioning, heating and refrigeration equipment and related parts and supplies in the U.S. is approximately $30.0 billion. Residential central air conditioners are manufactured primarily by seven
major companies that together account for approximately 90% of all units shipped in the U.S. each year. These companies are: Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), a subsidiary of United Technologies Corporation, Goodman Manufacturing Company,
L.P. (“Goodman”), a subsidiary of Goodman Global, Inc., Rheem Manufacturing Company (“Rheem”), Trane Inc., a subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited, York International Corporation, a subsidiary of Johnson Controls, Inc.,
Lennox International, Inc. and Nordyne Corporation (“Nordyne”), a subsidiary of Nortek Corporation. These manufacturers distribute their products through a combination of factory-owned and independent distributors who, in turn, supply the
equipment and related parts and supplies to contractors and dealers nationwide that sell to and install the products for consumers, businesses and other end-users.  Central air conditioning and heating equipment is sold to the residential replacement market, the commercial market and residential new construction market. The replacement market has increased in
importance over the past several years as a result of the aging of the installed base of residential central air conditioners and furnaces, the introduction of new higher energy efficient models, the remodeling and expansion of existing homes, the
addition of central air conditioning to homes that previously had only heating products and consumers’ overall unwillingness to live without air conditioning or heating products. The mechanical life of central air conditioning and furnaces
varies by geographical region due to usage and is estimated to range from 8 to 20 years. According to data published by the Energy Information Administration, there are approximately 89 million central air conditioning and heating systems
installed in the U.S. that have been in service for more than 10 years. Many installed units are reaching the end of their useful lives, thus providing a growing and stable replacement market. 
We also sell products to the refrigeration market. These products include condensing units, compressors, evaporators, valves, refrigerant, walk-in
coolers and ice machines for industrial and commercial applications. We distribute products manufactured by Copeland Compressor Corporation, a subsidiary of Emerson Electric Co. (“Emerson”), E. I. Du Pont De Nemours and Company
(“DuPont”), Mueller Industries, Inc., Owens Corning Insulating Systems, LLC and The Manitowoc Company, Inc. (“Manitowoc”). 
Business Strategy  We have a “buy
and build” strategy that has produced substantial long-term growth in revenues and profits. The “buy” component of the strategy focuses on acquiring market leaders to either expand into new geographic areas or gain additional market
share in existing markets. We employ a disciplined and conservative approach that seeks opportunities that fit well-defined financial and strategic criteria. The “build” component of the strategy focuses on implementing a growth culture at
acquired companies, by adding products and locations to better serve customers, exchanging ideas and business concepts amongst the executive management teams and investing in new technologies. Newly acquired businesses have access to our capital
resources and established vendor relationships to provide their customers with an expanded array of product lines on favorable terms and conditions with an intensified commitment to service. 
  3 


Table of Contents
Strategy in Existing Markets  Our strategy for growth in existing markets focuses on customer service and product expansion to satisfy the needs of the higher growth, higher margin replacement market, in which customers generally
demand immediate, convenient and reliable service. We respond to this need by (i) offering a broad range of product lines, including the necessary equipment, parts and supplies to enable a contractor to install or repair a central air
conditioner, furnace or refrigeration system, (ii) maintaining a strong density of warehouse locations for increased customer convenience, (iii) maintaining well-stocked inventories to ensure that customer orders are filled in a timely
manner, (iv) providing a high degree of technical expertise at the point of sale and (v) developing and implementing technology to further enhance customer service capabilities. We believe these concepts provide a competitive advantage
over smaller, less-capitalized competitors that are unable to commit resources to open and maintain additional locations, implement technological business solutions, provide the same range of products, maintain the same inventory levels or attract
the wide range of expertise that is required to support a diverse product offering. In some geographic areas, we believe we have a competitive advantage over factory-operated distributor networks that typically do not maintain inventories of parts
and supplies that are as diversified as ours and which have fewer warehouse locations than we do, which makes it more difficult for these competitors to meet the time-sensitive demands of the replacement market. 
In addition to the replacement market, we sell to the new construction market. We believe our reputation for reliable, high-quality service and
relationships with contractors, who may serve both the replacement and new construction markets, allow us to compete effectively in these markets.  Acquisition Strategy  We focus on acquiring businesses that either complement our current
presence in existing markets or establish a presence in new geographic markets. Since 1989, we have acquired 58 HVAC/R distribution businesses, five of which currently operate as primary operating subsidiaries. The other smaller acquired
distributors have been integrated into or are under the management of our primary operating subsidiaries. Through a combination of sales and market share growth, opening of new locations, tuck-in acquisitions, expansion of product lines, improved
pricing and programs that have resulted in higher gross profit, performance incentives and a culture of equity value for key leadership, we have produced substantial sales and earnings growth post-acquisition. We continue to pursue additional
strategic acquisitions and/or joint ventures to allow further penetration in existing markets and expansion into new geographic markets. 
Product Line Expansion  We actively seek
new or expanded territories of distribution from our key equipment suppliers. We currently maintain significant relationships with Carrier, Rheem, Goodman and Nordyne. We continually evaluate new parts and supply products to support equipment sales
and further enhance service to our customers. This initiative includes increasing the product offering with existing vendors and identifying new product opportunities through traditional and non-traditional supply channels. We have also introduced
private-label products as a means to obtain market share and grow revenues. We believe that our private-label branded products complement our existing product offerings at selected locations, based on customer needs and the particular market
position and price of these products.  Operating Philosophy  Our acquired subsidiaries operate in a manner that builds upon the long-term relationships they have established between their suppliers and their customers. Typically, we seek to maintain the identity
and culture of acquired businesses by retaining their historical trade names, management teams and sales organizations and by continuing their product brand-name offerings. We believe this strategy allows us to build on the value of the acquired
operations by creating additional sales opportunities while providing an attractive exit strategy for the owners of companies that are acquired.  We maintain a specialized functional support staff at our corporate headquarters to support our subsidiaries’ strategies for growth in their respective markets. Such functional support includes
specialists in finance, accounting, product procurement, treasury and working capital management, tax planning, risk management and safety. Certain general and administrative expenses are targeted for cost savings by leveraging the overall business
volume and improving operating efficiencies.  Technology  Our technology initiatives include: (i) implementation of effective point-of-sale systems that allow timely and effective customer service, including up-to-date pricing, credit checks, credit card
processing and inventory availability; (ii) enabling connectivity with our suppliers and by our customers to the relevant components of our subsidiaries’ business software; and (iii) developing our website, ACDoctor.com, that educates
consumers about energy efficient HVAC solutions and financial incentives related to the installation of energy efficient systems and connects them with high quality contractors. 
  4 


Table of Contents
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  Products  We sell an expansive line of products and maintain a diverse mix of inventory to
meet our customers’ immediate needs and seek to provide products a contractor would generally require when installing or repairing a central air conditioner, furnace or refrigeration system on short notice. The cooling capacity of air
conditioning units is measured in tons. One ton of cooling capacity is equivalent to 12,000 British Thermal Units (“BTUs”) and is generally adequate to air condition approximately 500 square feet of residential space. The products we
distribute consist of: (i) equipment, including residential central air conditioners ranging from 1-1/2 to 5 tons, gas, electric and oil furnaces ranging from 50,000 to 150,000 BTUs, commercial air conditioning and heating equipment and systems
ranging from 1-1/2 to 25 tons and other specialized equipment, (ii) parts, including replacement compressors, evaporator coils, motors and other component parts and (iii) supplies, including thermostats, insulation material, refrigerants,
ductwork, grills, registers, sheet metal, tools, copper tubing, concrete pads, tape, adhesives and other ancillary supplies.  Sales of HVAC
equipment accounted for 61% and 60% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales of other HVAC products (currently sourced from more than 800 vendors) comprised 32% and 33% of our revenues for the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales of commercial refrigeration products accounted for 7% of our revenues for both the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Distribution and Sales  At December 31, 2011, we operated from 542 locations, a vast
majority of which are located in regions that we believe have favorable demographic trends. We maintain large inventories at each warehouse location and either deliver products to customers using one of our 666 trucks or a third party logistics
provider, or we make products available for pick-up at the location nearest to the customer. We have approximately 725 commissioned salespeople, averaging more than 10 years of experience in the HVAC/R distribution industry. 
The industry’s largest markets for HVAC/R products are in the U.S. Sun Belt. Accordingly, the majority of our distribution locations are in the Sun
Belt, with the highest concentrations in Florida and Texas. The Sun Belt markets have been a strategic focus of ours given the size of the markets, the reliance by homeowners and businesses on HVAC/R products to maintain a comfortable indoor
environment, the population growth in the Sun Belt over the last 40 years, which has led to a substantial installed base requiring replacement, a shorter useful life for equipment given the hours of operation in the Sun Belt and the focus by
utilities on consumer incentives designed to promote replacement of HVAC/R equipment in an effort to improve energy efficiency. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Markets  The table below identifies the number of our stores by location as of December 31, 2011:   








 Florida
  
 
100
  

 Texas
  
 
92
  

 California
  
 
38
  

 North Carolina
  
 
38
  

 Georgia
  
 
37
  

 South Carolina
  
 
30
  

 Tennessee
  
 
27
  

 Virginia
  
 
21
  

 Louisiana
  
 
18
  

 Mississippi
  
 
13
  

 New York
  
 
12
  

 Alabama
  
 
10
  

 Massachusetts
  
 
10
  

 Maryland
  
 
8
  

 Missouri
  
 
8
  

 Arizona
  
 
7
  

 Mexico
  
 
7
  

 Puerto Rico
  
 
7
  

 Arkansas
  
 
6
  

 Connecticut
  
 
6
  

 Kansas
  
 
6
  

 Oklahoma
  
 
5
  

 Utah
  
 
5
  

 New Jersey
  
 
4
  

 Maine
  
 
3
  

 Colorado
  
 
2
  

 Iowa
  
 
2
  

 Kentucky
  
 
2
  

 Nebraska
  
 
2
  

 Nevada
  
 
2
  

 New Hampshire
  
 
2
  

 Pennsylvania
  
 
2
  

 Rhode Island
  
 
2
  

 South Dakota
  
 
2
  

 Illinois
  
 
1
  

 Indiana
  
 
1
  

 New Mexico
  
 
1
  

 North Dakota
  
 
1
  

 Vermont
  
 
1
  

 West Virginia
  
 
1
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
542
  


  
  
  
 
 Joint Ventures with Carrier Corporation  In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier, which we refer to as “Carrier Enterprise I”, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 U.S. Sun Belt states and Puerto
Rico and its export division in Miami, Florida and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products. We have a 60% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, Carrier has a 40% noncontrolling interest and we have options to purchase
from Carrier up to an additional 20% interest in Carrier Enterprise I (10% in July 2012 and 10% in July 2014).  In 2011, we formed a second
joint venture with Carrier and completed two additional transactions. In April 2011, Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in eight Northeast U.S states and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S. In August 2011, we
purchased Carrier’s distribution operations in Mexico, which included seven locations (we refer to the foregoing Northeast locations and the Mexico operations together as “Carrier Enterprise II”). We have a 60% controlling interest in
Carrier Enterprise II and Carrier has a 40% noncontrolling interest. Neither we nor Carrier have any options to purchase additional ownership interests in Carrier Enterprise II. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Combined, the joint ventures with Carrier represented 55% of our revenues in 2011. Refer to Note 8 to
our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of acquisitions.  The business and affairs of the joint ventures are controlled,
directed and managed exclusively by Carrier Enterprise I’s and Carrier Enterprise II’s board of directors (the “Boards”) pursuant to the related operating agreement. The Boards have full, complete and exclusive authority, power
and discretion to manage and control the business, property and affairs of the joint ventures and to make all decisions regarding those matters and to perform any and all other acts or activities customary or incident to the management of the joint
ventures, including approving distributions. The Boards are composed of five directors, of whom three directors represent our 60% controlling interest and two directors represent Carrier’s 40% noncontrolling interest. Matters presented to the
Boards for vote are considered approved or consented to upon the receipt of the affirmative vote of at least a majority of all directors entitled to vote with the exception of certain governance matters, which require joint approval. 
Customers and Customer Service  Air
conditioning and heating contractors and dealers that install HVAC/R products in homes and businesses must be licensed given the highly-regulated nature of the products, refrigerant, natural gas and building and zoning requirements. We currently
serve more than 50,000 contractors and dealers who service the replacement and new construction markets for residential and light commercial central air conditioning, heating and refrigeration systems. No single customer in 2011, 2010 or 2009
represented more than 1% of our consolidated revenues. We focus on providing products where and when the customer needs them, technical support by phone or on site as required, and quick and efficient service at our locations. Increased customer
convenience is also provided through e-commerce, which allows customers to access information online 24 hours a day, seven days a week to search for desired products, verify inventory availability, obtain pricing, place orders, check order status,
schedule pickup or delivery times and make payments. We believe we compete successfully with other distributors primarily on the basis of an experienced sales organization, strong service support, maintenance of well-stocked inventories, and density
of warehouse locations, high quality reputation, broad product lines and the ability to foresee customer demand for new products.  Key
Suppliers  We have significant relationships with Carrier, Rheem, Goodman, Nordyne, Emerson, Manitowoc and DuPont, each of which is a
leading manufacturer of HVAC/R products in the U.S. Each manufacturer has a well-established reputation of producing high-quality, competitively-priced products. The manufacturers’ current product offerings, quality, serviceability and
brand-name recognition allow us to operate favorably relative to our competitors. To maintain brand-name recognition, the manufacturers of air conditioning and heating equipment provide national advertising and participate with us in cooperative
advertising programs and promotional incentives that are targeted to both dealers and end-users. We estimate that the replacement market for air conditioning products currently accounts for approximately 85% of industry sales in the U.S., and we
expect this percentage to increase as units installed in the past 20 years wear out and get replaced or updated to more energy-efficient models.  Approximately 71%, 72% and 66% of purchases in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were made from the four key HVAC/R equipment suppliers; with the largest supplier, Carrier and its affiliates, accounting
for 54%, 52% and 41% of all purchases made in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A significant interruption by Carrier, or the other suppliers, in the delivery of products could impair our ability to maintain current inventory levels and could
adversely affect our financial results. Future financial results are also materially dependent upon the continued market acceptance of these manufacturers’ products and their ability to continue to manufacture products that comply with laws
relating to environmental and efficiency standards. See “Business Risk Factors” in Item 1A.  Distribution Agreements
 We have entered into distribution agreements with several of our key suppliers either on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis for terms
generally ranging from one to ten years. Certain of the distribution agreements contain provisions that restrict or limit the sale of competitive products in the geographic markets served. Other than in the geographic markets where such restrictions
and limitations apply, we may distribute other manufacturers’ lines of air conditioning or heating equipment.  We maintain separate and
distinct trade name and distribution agreements with Carrier. These agreements provide us the use of various Carrier brand names and distribution rights for certain Carrier HVAC brands and products on an exclusive basis in specified territories. The
trade name and distribution agreements are not subject to a stated term or expiration date. See Supplier Concentration in “Business Risk Factors” in Item 1A.  Seasonality  Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment and parts and
supplies have historically been seasonal. See “Business Risk Factors” in Item 1A.  Competition 
We operate in highly competitive environments. See “Business Risk Factors” in Item 1A. 
Employees  We had approximately 4,300
employees as of December 31, 2011, substantially all of whom are non-union employees. Most of these employees are employed on a full-time basis, and our relations with employees are good. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Order Backlog  Order backlog is not a material aspect of our business and no material portion of our business is subject to government contracts.  Government Regulations, Environmental and Health and Safety Matters  Our business is
subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, transportation and release of hazardous materials into the environment. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, relating to minimum energy
efficiency standards of HVAC systems and the production, servicing and disposal of certain ozone-depleting refrigerants used in such systems, including those established at the Montreal Protocol in 1992 concerning the phase-out of the production of
CFC-based refrigerants on January 1, 2010 for use in new equipment. We are also subject to regulations concerning the transport of hazardous materials, including regulations adopted pursuant to the Motor Carrier Safety Act of 1990. Our
operations are also subject to health and safety requirements including the Occupational, Safety and Health Act. We believe that the business is operated in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local provisions relating to the
protection of the environment, transport of hazardous materials and health and safety requirements. In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change. 
Financial Information About Geographic Areas  Our operations are primarily within the U.S. and Puerto Rico. Products are sold on an export-only basis to portions of Latin America and the Caribbean Basin and export sales were approximately 4% of total
revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009. In July 2011, we acquired seven locations in Mexico that represented approximately 1% of consolidated revenues for 2011.  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  Filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
 As a public company, we regularly file reports and proxy statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These
reports are required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and include, but are not limited to:   


 
•
 
 annual reports on Form 10-K;   


 
•
 
 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q;   


 
•
 
 current reports on Form 8-K and   


 
•
 
 proxy statements on Schedule 14A.  The public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file electronically.
 We make available free of charge access to our SEC filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed
with or furnished to the SEC through our website at www.watsco.com. Other reports filed with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are also available including the proxy statements and reports filed by officers and directors
under Section 16(a) of that Act. These reports may be found on our website by selecting the option entitled “SEC Filings” under the “Investor Relations” section of the website. The reference to our website address does not
constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on our website and none of such information is part of this report.   


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  Business Risk Factors
 Supplier Concentration 
Our purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 54% of all purchases made during 2011. Significant relationships currently exist with four of the
seven major HVAC equipment manufacturers; and purchases from these equipment suppliers, including Carrier, comprised 71% of all purchases made in 2011. Given the significant concentration of our supply chain, particularly with Carrier, any
significant interruption by the manufacturers or a termination of a distribution agreement could temporarily disrupt the operations of certain subsidiaries. Additionally, our operations are also materially dependent upon the continued market
acceptance of these manufacturers’ products and their ability to continue to manufacture products that are competitive and that comply with laws relating to environmental and efficiency standards. Our inability to obtain products from one or
more of these manufacturers or a decline in market acceptance of these manufacturers’ products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 
  8 


Table of Contents
We maintain separate and distinct trade name distribution agreements with Carrier. These agreements provide
us the use of various Carrier brand names and distribution rights for certain Carrier HVAC brands and products on an exclusive basis in specified territories. The trade name and distribution agreements are not subject to a stated term or expiration
date.  We also maintain distribution agreements with our other key equipment suppliers, either on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, for
terms generally ranging from one to ten years. Certain of the distribution agreements contain provisions that restrict or limit the sale of competitive products in the markets served. Other than the markets where such restrictions and limitations
may apply, we may distribute other manufacturers’ lines of air conditioning or heating equipment.  Risks Inherent in Acquisitions
 As part of our strategy, we intend to pursue additional acquisitions of complementary businesses. If we complete future acquisitions
and/or joint ventures, we may be required to incur or assume additional debt and/or issue additional shares of our common stock as consideration, which will dilute our existing shareholders’ ownership interest in us and may affect our results
of operations. Growth through acquisitions involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following:   


 
•
 
 the ability to identify and consummate complementary acquisition candidates; 
 


 
•
 
 the successful operation and/or integration of acquired companies in an effective manner; 
 


 
•
 
 diversion of management’s attention from other daily functions; 
 


 
•
 
 issuance by us of equity securities that would dilute ownership of our existing shareholders; 
 


 
•
 
 incurrence and/or assumption of significant debt and contingent liabilities; and 
 


 
•
 
 possible loss of key employees and/or customer relationships of the acquired companies. 
In addition, acquired companies may have liabilities that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence
investigations. We cannot assure you that the indemnification granted to us by sellers of acquired companies will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with businesses or properties that we
assume upon consummation of an acquisition. We may learn additional information about our acquired businesses that materially adversely affect us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and liabilities related to compliance with applicable laws.
Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Failure to successfully manage
the operational challenges and risks associated with, or resulting from, acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.  Competition  We operate in highly competitive environments. We compete with a number of
distributors and also with several air conditioning and heating equipment manufacturers that distribute a significant portion of their products through their own distribution organizations in certain markets. Competition within any given geographic
market is based upon product availability, customer service, price and quality. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause our products or services to lose market acceptance or result in significant price erosion, all of which would have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.  Decline in Economic Conditions 
The global and U.S. economy experienced a significant contraction in 2008, including sharply reduced availability of business and consumer credit. We rely
on the capital markets as well as the credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit market, such as those that began in
2008, could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any long-term disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our
business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include reducing or eliminating dividend payments, deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash.  A decline in economic conditions and lack of availability of business and consumer credit could have an adverse effect on our business. Any capital and credit market disruption could cause broader
economic downturns, which may lead to reduced demand for our products and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Further, bankruptcies or similar events by customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels
higher than historically experienced. Also, our suppliers may potentially be impacted causing disruption or delay of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
Additionally, if financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the capital and credit markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which
could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow funds, if needed, for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Seasonality  Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment and parts and supplies have historically been seasonal. Furthermore, profitability can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on the
severity or mildness of weather patterns during summer or winter selling seasons. Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment
is usually highest in the fourth quarter. Demand related to the new construction sectors throughout most of the markets is fairly even during the year except for dependence on housing completions and related weather and economic conditions.
 Dependence on Key Personnel 
Much of our future success depends on the skills, experience and services of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or
other key senior management personnel could harm our business. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently in order to both maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. Our
success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our store employees who we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience. Accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality
employees to work in and manage our stores. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently in order to maintain our current business and support our projected growth and expansion, our business and financial performance may
be adversely affected.  Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations  Our operations in Mexico generally consider their functional currency to be the U.S. dollar since the majority of their transactions are denominated in U.S dollars. Foreign currency exchange rates and
fluctuations may have an impact on transactions denominated in Mexican Pesos, and therefore, could adversely affect our financial performance. 
General Risk Factors  Goodwill and
Intangibles  At December 31, 2011, goodwill and intangibles represented approximately 31% of our total assets. The recoverability of
goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles is evaluated at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the
estimation of the fair value of our reporting unit and contains uncertainty because management must use judgment in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. The estimates of fair value of our reporting unit
and indefinite lived intangibles are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment and incorporates management’s assumptions about expected future cash flows and contemplates other valuation techniques. Future cash
flows can be affected by changes in the industry, a declining economic environment or market conditions. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer material impairments to goodwill in the future. 
Risks Related to Insurance Coverage  We
carry general liability, comprehensive property damage, workers’ compensation, health benefits and other insurance coverage that management considers adequate for the protection of its assets and operations. There can be no assurance, however,
that the coverage limits of such policies will be adequate to cover losses and expenses for lawsuits brought or which may be brought against us. A loss in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position
and/or profitability. Certain self-insurance risks for casualty insurance programs and health benefits are retained and reserves are established based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Assurance cannot be
provided that actual claims will not exceed present estimates. Exposure to catastrophic losses has been limited by maintaining excess and aggregate liability coverage and implementing stop-loss control programs. 
Control by Existing Shareholder  As of
December 31, 2011, Albert H. Nahmad, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, a limited partnership and various trusts controlled by him, collectively had beneficial ownership of approximately 54% of the combined voting power of our
outstanding Common and Class B common stock. Based on Mr. Nahmad’s stock ownership and the stock ownership of the limited partnership and various trusts controlled by him, Mr. Nahmad has the voting power to elect all but three members
of our nine-person Board of Directors and to control most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval.  Information about
Forward-Looking Statements  This Form 10-K contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are
intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding, among other items, (i) economic conditions,
(ii) business and acquisition strategies, (iii) potential acquisitions and/or joint ventures, (iv) financing plans and (v) industry, demographic and other trends affecting 
  10 


Table of Contents

our financial condition or results of operations. These forward-looking statements are based largely on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties
and changes in circumstances, certain of which are beyond their control.  Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking
statements as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to:   


 
•
 
 general economic conditions;   


 
•
 
 competitive factors within the HVAC/R industry;   


 
•
 
 effects of supplier concentration;   


 
•
 
 fluctuations in certain commodity costs;   


 
•
 
 consumer spending;   


 
•
 
 consumer debt levels;   


 
•
 
 new housing starts and completions;   


 
•
 
 capital spending in the commercial construction market; 
 


 
•
 
 access to liquidity needed for operations;   


 
•
 
 seasonal nature of product sales;   


 
•
 
 weather conditions;   


 
•
 
 insurance coverage risks;   


 
•
 
 federal, state and local regulations impacting our industry and products; 
 


 
•
 
 prevailing interest rates;   


 
•
 
 refinancing of revolving credit agreements with satisfactory terms; 
 


 
•
 
 foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and   


 
•
 
 the continued viability of our business strategy.  In light of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking information contained herein will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that the information will have the
expected consequences or effects on us or our business or operations. A discussion of certain of these risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements is set forth
in this Item 1A and included in our 2011 Annual Report in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which section is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form
10-K by reference. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information or the discussion of such risks and uncertainties to reflect actual results, changes in
assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable law.   


ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None.
  


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES  Our main properties include
warehousing and distribution facilities, trucks and administrative office space.  Warehousing and Distribution Facilities 
At December 31, 2011, we operated 542 warehousing and distribution facilities across 38 states, Mexico and Puerto Rico, having an aggregate of
approximately 13.1 million square feet of space, of which approximately 12.7 million square feet is leased. The majority of these leases are for terms of three to five years. We believe that our facilities are generally sufficient to meet
our present operating needs.  Trucks  At December 31, 2011, we operated 666 ground transport vehicles, including delivery and pick-up trucks, vans and tractors. Of this number, 352 trucks were leased and the rest were owned. We believe
that the present size of our truck fleet is adequate to support our operations.  Administrative Facility 
Senior management and support staff are located at our corporate headquarters in Miami, Florida in approximately 6,000 square feet of owned space.

  11 


Table of Contents


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  We are involved in
litigation incidental to the operation of our business. We vigorously defend all matters in which we or our subsidiaries are named defendants and, for insurable losses, maintain significant levels of insurance to protect against adverse judgments,
claims or assessments that may affect us. Although the adequacy of existing insurance coverage and the outcome of any legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, based on the current information available, we do not believe the ultimate
liability associated with any known claims or litigation will have a material adverse impact to our financial condition or results of operations.   


ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE  Not applicable.
 PART II   


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
Stock Exchange Information, Common Share Price Performance and Dividends  Our Common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Professional Segment of NYSE Euronext in Paris under the ticker symbol WSO and our Class B common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex under
the ticker symbol WSOB.  Our 2011 Annual Report contains “Information on Common Stock,” which identifies the markets in which our
common stocks are being traded and contains the high and low sales prices and dividend information for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
Shareholder Return Performance  The
following graph compares the cumulative five-year total return attained by holders of our Common stock and Class B common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the NYSE Amex Composite index, the S&P MidCap 400 index and a customized
peer group of companies, which are: Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc., Interline Brands, Inc., Lennox International Inc., Pool Corp and WESCO International, Inc. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in
our common stock, in each index and in the peer group on December 31, 2006 and its relative performance is tracked through December 31, 2011. 
  12 


Table of Contents
COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* 
Among Watsco, Inc., the NYSE Amex Composite Index,  the S&P MidCap 400 Index and a Peer Group    

 *$100 invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 
Fiscal year ending December 31.  The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.  Copyright© 2012 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.   




























 
  
12/06
 
  
12/07
 
  
12/08
 
  
12/09
 
  
12/10
 
  
12/11
 

 Watsco, Inc.
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
80.07
  
  
 
87.23
  
  
 
116.27
  
  
 
155.25
  
  
 
167.29
  

 Watsco, Inc. Class B
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
78.95
  
  
 
86.85
  
  
 
117.48
  
  
 
157.15
  
  
 
168.91
  

 NYSE Amex Composite
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
122.46
  
  
 
73.97
  
  
 
100.19
  
  
 
127.31
  
  
 
128.98
  

 S&P MidCap 400
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
107.98
  
  
 
68.86
  
  
 
94.60
  
  
 
119.80
  
  
 
117.72
  

 Peer Group
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
81.11
  
  
 
60.45
  
  
 
75.90
  
  
 
103.91
  
  
 
98.30
  
 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers  
During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, there were no purchases of our equity securities made by us or on our behalf by any “affiliated
purchaser” (as such term is defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Under our current program, which began in September 1999 and which authorizes the repurchase of up to 7.5 million shares of our
common stock, shares may be purchased in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Through December 31, 2011, 6.4 million shares of common stock have been repurchased since the inception of the program. The repurchase of the
remaining 1.1 million shares authorized for repurchase is subject to certain restrictions included in our revolving credit agreements. 
Dividends  Cash dividends per share of
$2.23, $2.04 and $1.89 for both Common and Class B common stock were paid in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Future dividends will be declared and paid at the sole discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon such factors as cash
flow generated by operations, profitability, financial condition, cash requirements, restrictions under our revolving credit agreements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. 
  13 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  Our 2011 Annual
Report contains “Selected Consolidated Financial Data” and is incorporated herein by reference.   


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Our 2011 Annual Report contains “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  Our 2011 Annual Report contains “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  Our 2011 and 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets and other consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, together with the report thereon of KPMG LLP dated
February 29, 2012 in our 2011 Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.  The 2011 and 2010 unaudited Selected Quarterly
Financial Data appearing in our 2011 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.   


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  None.   


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures  We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”)) that are, among other things, designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our
Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Senior Vice President (“SVP”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure and appropriate SEC filings. 
Our management, with the participation of our CEO, SVP and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of
the period covered by this report, and, based on that evaluation, our CEO, SVP and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective, at a reasonable assurance level, at and as of such date. 
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  Our 2011 Annual Report contains “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting” and the report thereon of KPMG LLP dated February 29, 2012, and each is incorporated
herein by reference.   Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
We are continuously seeking to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations and of our internal controls. This results in refinements to
processes throughout the Company. However, there have been no changes in internal controls over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2011,
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. In accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, we have not yet assessed the internal control over financial
reporting of the 35 locations added by Carrier Enterprise II, which collectively represented approximately 11% of our total consolidated assets at December 31, 2011 and approximately 6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2011. From the respective acquisition dates to December 31, 2011, the processes and systems of Carrier Enterprise II did not impact the internal controls over financial reporting for our other consolidated subsidiaries.
  


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION  None. 
  14 


Table of Contents
PART III  This part of Form 10-K, which includes Items 10 through 14, is omitted because we will file definitive proxy material pursuant to Regulation 14A not more than 120 days after the close of our most recently
ended fiscal year, which proxy material will include the information required by Items 10 through 14 and is incorporated herein by reference.  PART IV   


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   


(a)(1)
Financial Statements. Our consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference from our 2011 Annual Report. 
 


     (2)
Financial Statement Schedules. The schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
statements or notes thereto.   


     (3)
Exhibits. The following list of exhibits includes exhibits submitted with this Form 10-K as filed with the SEC and those incorporated by reference to other
filings.   


 
3.1
Watsco’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30,
2001 and incorporated herein by reference).   


 
3.2
Watsco’s Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K on June 4, 2009
and incorporated herein by reference).   


 
3.3
Watsco’s Bylaws (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1985 and incorporated herein by reference).
  


 
3.4
Watsco’s Amendment to the Bylaws (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K on April 1, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference).
  


 
4.1
Specimen form of Class B Common Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit 4.6 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-56646) and incorporated herein by reference).
  


 
4.2
Specimen form of Common Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 and incorporated
herein by reference).   


 
10.1
Watsco, Inc. Amended and Restated 1991 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4.23 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (333-82011) and incorporated herein by
reference). *   


 
10.2
Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad (filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.3
First Amendment dated January 1, 2001 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.4
Second Amendment dated January 1, 2002 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.15 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.5
Third Amendment dated January 1, 2003 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.6
Fourth Amendment dated January 1, 2004 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.7
Fifth Amendment dated January 1, 2005 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference). * 
  15 


Table of Contents


 
10.8
Sixth Amendment dated January 1, 2006 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.9
Watsco, Inc. 2001 Incentive Compensation Plan (filed as Exhibit I to the Definitive Proxy Statement for the year ended December 31, 2005 and incorporated herein by
reference). *   


 
10.10
Seventh Amendment dated January 1, 2007 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.18 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.11
Third Amended and Restated 1996 Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan dated February 27, 2007 (filed as Exhibit 1 to the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule
14A in respect of our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.12
Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of August 3, 2007, by and among Watsco, Inc., as Borrower, the Lenders from Time to Time Party Thereto, Bank of America, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A on July 23, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference). 
 


 
10.13
Eighth Amendment dated January 1, 2008 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.14
Ninth Amendment dated December 10, 2008 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.19 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.15
Tenth Amendment dated January 1, 2009 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.16
Watsco, Inc. Amended and Restated 2001 Incentive Compensation Plan (filed as Appendix A to the Definitive Proxy Statement for the year ended December 31, 2008 and
incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.17
Credit Agreement dated as of July 1, 2009, by and among Carrier Enterprise, LLC, as Borrower, the Lenders that are Signatories Hereto, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as
Administrative Agent (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A on July 23, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference). 
 


 
10.18
Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of August 3, 2007 as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Revolving Credit Agreement dated July 1, 2009, by and among
Watsco, Inc., as Borrower, the Lenders from Time to Time Party Thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K on July 23, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference).
  


 
10.19
Purchase and Contribution Agreement dated May 3, 2009 by and between Carrier Corporation and Watsco, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K
on May 7, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference).   


 
10.20
Amendment to Purchase and Contribution Agreement dated as of June 29, 2009 by and between Carrier Corporation and Watsco, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2.2 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K on July 8, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference).   


 
10.21
Operating Agreement of Carrier Enterprise, LLC (Amended and Restated), dated as of July 1, 2009 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K on
July 8, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference).   


 
10.22
Shareholder Agreement by and between Watsco, Inc. and Carrier Corporation, dated as of July 1, 2009 (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K on
July 8, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference).   


 
10.23
Eleventh Amendment dated January 1, 2010 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference). * 
  16 


Table of Contents


 
10.24
Twelfth Amendment dated January 1, 2011 to Employment Agreement and Incentive Plan dated January 31, 1996 by and between Watsco, Inc. and Albert H. Nahmad
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference). *   


 
10.25
Purchase and Contribution Agreement dated March 18, 2011 by and between Carrier Corporation and Watsco, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form
8-K on March 24, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference).   


 
10.26
Fourth Amended and Restated 1996 Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan dated April 18, 2011 (filed as Appendix A to the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A
in respect of our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and incorporated by reference herein). *   


 
10.27
Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of July 26, 2011, by and among Carrier Enterprise, LLC, as Borrower, the Lenders party thereto, Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A., as Administrative Agent, and Carrier (Puerto Rico), Inc., as Guarantor (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K on July 29, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference). 
 


 
10.28
Amended and Restated Shareholder Agreement by and between Watsco, Inc. and Carrier Corporation, dated as of January 24, 2012. # 
 


 
10.29
Operating Agreement of Carrier Enterprise Northeast, LLC, dated as of April 30, 2011. # 
 


 
13
2011 Annual Report to Shareholders (with the exception of the information incorporated by reference into Items 1, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Form 10-K, the 2011 Annual
Report to Shareholders is provided solely for the information of the SEC and is not deemed “filed” as part of this Form 10-K). #   


 
21
Subsidiaries of the Registrant. #   


 
23.1
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm – KPMG LLP. # 
 


 
31.1
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. # 
 


 
31.2
Certification of Senior Vice President pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. # 
 


 
31.3
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. # 
 


 
32.1
Certification of Chief Executive Officer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. +
  


 
101.INS
XBRL Instance Document. **   


 
101.SCH
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. **   


 
101.CAL
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. **   


 
101.DEF
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. **   


 
101.LAB
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. **   


 
101.PRE
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. ** 
 


#
filed herewith. 


+
furnished herewith. 


*
Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement. 


**
XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of sections
11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections. 
  17 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   











 

 
WATSCO, INC.






February 29, 2012
 

 
By:
 
 /s/ Albert H. Nahmad


 

 

 
Albert H. Nahmad, President






February 29, 2012
 

 
By:
 
 /s/ Ana M. Menendez


 

 

 
Ana M. Menendez, Chief Financial Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 SIGNATURE
  
 TITLE
 
 DATE





 /S/    ALBERT H.
NAHMAD         Albert H. Nahmad
  
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer)
 
 February 29, 2012





 /S/    BARRY S.
LOGAN         Barry S. Logan
  
Director and Senior Vice President
 
 February 29, 2012





 /S/    ANA M.
MENENDEZ         Ana M. Menendez
  
 Chief Financial Officer
(principal accounting officer and principal financial officer)
 
 February 29, 2012





 /S/    CESAR L.
ALVAREZ         Cesar L. Alvarez
  
Director
 
 February 29, 2012





 /S/    DENISE
DICKINS         Denise Dickins
  
Director
 
 February 29, 2012





 /S/    STEVEN R.
FEDRIZZI         Steven R. Fedrizzi
  
Director
 
 February 29, 2012





 /S/    PAUL F.
MANLEY         Paul F. Manley
  
Director
 
 February 29, 2012





 /S/    BOB L.
MOSS         Bob L. Moss
  
Director
 
 February 29, 2012





 /S/    Aaron J.
Nahmad         Aaron J. Nahmad
  
Director and Vice President of Strategy and Innovation
 
 February 29, 2012





 /S/    GEORGE P.
SAPE         George P. Sape
  
Director
 
 February 29, 2012

  18 


Table of Contents
Exhibit Index 
 






 Exhibit Number
  
 Description




10.28
  
Amended and Restated Shareholder Agreement by and between Watsco, Inc. and Carrier Corporation, dated as of January 24, 2012.




10.29
  
Operating Agreement of Carrier Enterprise Northeast, LLC, dated as of April 30, 2011.




13
  
2011 Annual Report to Shareholders (with the exception of the information incorporated by reference into Items 1, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Form 10-K, the 2011 Annual Report to
Shareholders is provided solely for the information of the SEC and is not deemed “filed” as part of this Form 10-K).




21
  
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.




23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm – KPMG LLP.




31.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




31.2
  
Certification of Senior Vice President pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




31.3
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document.




101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.




101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.




101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.




101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.




101.PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.




