
10-K
1
a12-1356_110k.htm
10-K






Table of Contents
 

 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
 
Form 10-K
 




x 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO   SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011
 




o 

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO   SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

 
For the transition period from          to          
 
Commission File Number 001-33126
 
CITIZENS FIRST CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 




Kentucky 

  

61-0912615  


(State or other jurisdiction of 

  

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  


incorporation or organization) 

  

    

 




1065 Ashley Street, Bowling Green, Kentucky 

  

42103  


(Address of Principal Executive Offices) 

  

(Zip Code)   

 
Issuer’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code: (270) 393-0700
 
Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:
 




Title of each class 

  

Name of each exchange on which registered  


Common stock, no par value 

  

The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC   

 
Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: None
 
Indicate by checkmark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes o No x
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes o No x
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the past 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K(Section 229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. o
 
Indicated by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated file, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of a “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12-b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 




Large accelerated filer o 

  

Accelerated filer o  


  

  

   


Non-accelerated filer o 

  

Smaller reporting company x  


(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

  

    

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Yes o No x
 
State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates (for purposes of this calculation, “affiliates” are considered to be the directors and executive officers of the issuer) computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked prices of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.  $12,490,112 as of June 30, 2011
 
Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date:  1,968,777 shares of common stock as of March 23, 2012
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 16, 2012 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
 

 

 





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Table of Contents
 



Part I: 

  

   


  

  

   


Item   1 

Business 

5  


  

  

   


Item 2 

Properties 

38  


  

  

   


Item 3 

Legal Proceedings 

39  


  

  

   


Item 4 

Mine Safety   and Disclosures 

39  


  

  

   


Part II: 

  

   


  

  

   


Item 5 

Market for   Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issued Purchases   of Equity Securities 

40  


  

  

   


Item 6 

Selected Financial   Data 

41  


  

  

   


Item 7 

Management’s   Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 

42  


  

  

   


Item 7A 

Quantitative   and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

64  


  

  

   


Item 8 

Financial   Statements and Supplementary Data 

66  


  

  

   


Item 9 

Changes In   and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

118  


  

  

   


Item 9A 

Controls and   Procedures 

118  


  

  

   


Part III: 

  

   


  

  

   


Item 10 

Directors,   Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

120  


  

  

   


Item 11 

Executive Compensation 

121  


  

  

   


Item 12 

Security   Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder   Matters 

121  


  

  

   


Item 13 

Certain Relationships   and Related Transactions and Director Independence 

121  


  

  

   


Item 14 

Principal   Accounting Fees and Services 

121  


  

  

   


Part IV: 

  

   


  

  

   


Item 15 

Exhibits,   Financial Statement Schedules 

122  


  

  

   


  

Signatures 

125   
 
2





Table of Contents
 
Part I
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Citizens First Corporation (the “Company”) may from time to time make written or oral statements, including statements contained in this report, which may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words “may”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “consider”, “plan”, “believe”, “seek”, “should”, “estimate”, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, but other statements may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements should be considered subject to various risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and estimates and are not guarantees of future performance.  Such statements are made pursuant to “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our actual results and performance could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results and performance to differ from those expressed in our forward-looking statements we make or incorporate by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to those described below under Item 1A — “Risk Factors” and the following:
 
·                  current and future economic and business conditions, including, without limitation, the recent deterioration of real estate values, the subprime mortgage, credit and liquidity markets, as well as the Federal Reserve’s actions with respect to interest rates, may lead to a deterioration in credit quality, thereby requiring increases in our provision for credit losses, a reduced demand for credit, which would reduce earning assets, and/or a further decline in real estate values;
 
·                  possible changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, as well as legislative and regulatory changes, including changes in accounting standards and banking, securities and tax laws and our ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital;
 
·                  changes in the interest rate environment and our ability to effectively manage interest rate risk and other market risk, credit risk and operational risk;
 
·                  changes in the quality or composition of our loan or investment portfolios, including adverse developments in the real estate markets, the borrowers’ industries or in the repayment ability of individual borrowers or issuers;
 
3





Table of Contents
 
·                  increases in our nonperforming assets, or our inability to recover or absorb losses created by such nonperforming assets;
 
·                  our ability to manage fluctuations in the value of assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet exposure so as to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity to support our business;
 
·                  the failure of our assumptions underlying the establishment of allowances for loan losses and other estimates, or dramatic changes in those underlying assumptions or judgments in future periods, that, in either case, render the allowance for loan losses inadequate or require that further provisions for loan losses be made;
 
·                  the cost and other effects of material contingencies;
 
·                  our ability to keep pace with technological changes;
 
·                  our ability to develop competitive new products and services in a timely manner and the acceptance of such products and services by our customers and potential customers;
 
·                  the threat or occurrence of war or acts of terrorism and the existence or exacerbation of general geopolitical instability and uncertainty;
 
·                  management’s ability to develop and execute plans to effectively respond to unexpected changes; and
 
·                  other factors and information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Exchange Act.
 
The cautionary statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K also identify important factors and possible events that involve risk and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which the statements were made. We do not intend and undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of differences in actual results, changes in assumptions, future events or otherwise.
 
4





Table of Contents
 
Item 1.  Business
 
Overview
 
We are a Kentucky corporation organized in 1975 for the purpose of conducting business as an investment club. We are headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky.  In late 1998 and early 1999 we received regulatory approval to serve as the bank holding company for Citizens First Bank, Inc. (the “Bank”), a Kentucky state chartered bank that commenced operations on February 19, 1999. The Bank currently conducts full-service community banking operations from ten locations in the Kentucky counties of Barren, Hart, Simpson and Warren.
 
We are primarily engaged in the business of accepting demand, savings and time deposits insured by the FDIC and providing commercial, consumer and mortgage loans to the general public. We primarily market our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses and to retail consumers. Our strategy is to provide outstanding service through our employees, who are relationship-oriented and committed to customer service. Through this strategy, we intend to grow our business, expand our customer base and improve our profitability.
 
As of December 31, 2011, we had total assets of $403.8 million, total loans of $294.4 million, deposits of $332.7 million and shareholders’ equity of $38.9 million.
 
Lending Activities
 
General.  We offer a variety of loans, including commercial and residential real estate mortgage loans, construction loans, commercial loans and consumer loans to individuals and small to mid-size businesses that are located in or conduct a substantial portion of their business in our market area.  Our underwriting standards vary for each type of loan, as described below. At December 31, 2011, we had total loans of $294.4 million, representing 72.9% of our total assets.
 
Commercial Loans.  We make commercial loans primarily to small and medium-sized businesses. These loans are secured and unsecured and are made available for general operating inventory and accounts receivables, as well as any other purposes considered appropriate. We will generally look to a borrower’s business operations as the principal source of repayment, but will also require, when appropriate, security interests in personal property and personal guarantees. In addition, the majority of commercial loans that are not mortgage loans are secured by a lien on equipment, inventory and other assets of the commercial borrower. These loans are generally considered to have greater risk than first and second mortgages on real estate because these loans may be unsecured or, if they are secured, the value of the collateral may be difficult to assess and more likely to decrease than real estate.  At December 31, 2011, commercial loans amounted to $58.9 million, or 20.0% of our total loan portfolio, excluding for these purposes commercial loans secured by real estate which are included in the commercial real estate category. At December 31, 2011, our commercial loans had an average size of $75,000 and the largest loan was $3.3 million.
 
5





Table of Contents
 
Commercial Real Estate Loans.  We originate and maintain a significant amount of commercial real estate loans. This lending involves loans secured by multi-family residential units, income-producing properties and owner-occupied commercial properties. Loan amounts generally conform to the regulatory loan-to-value guidelines and amortizations match the economic life of the collateral, with a maximum amortization schedule of 20 years. Loans secured by commercial real estate are generally subject to a maximum term of 20 years. At December 31, 2011, total commercial real estate loans amounted to $144.0 million, or 48.9% of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, our commercial real estate loans had an average size of $262,000 and the largest loan was $6.2 million.
 
Residential Real Estate Mortgage Loans.  We originate residential real estate mortgage loans with either fixed or variable interest rates to borrowers to purchase and refinance one-to-four family properties. Real estate mortgage loans are subject to the same general risks as other loans and are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in the value of real estate, which could negatively affect a borrower’s cash flow, creditworthiness and ability to repay the loan.  We also offer home equity loans which are secured by prior liens on the subject residence. Except for home equity loans and lines of credit, substantially all of our residential real estate loans are secured by a first lien on the real estate. Loans secured by residential real estate with variable interest rates will have a maximum term and amortization schedule of 30 years. We sell to the secondary market the majority of our residential fixed-rate mortgage loans, thereby reducing our interest rate risk and credit risk. Loans secured by vacant land are generally subject to a maximum term of five years and a maximum amortization schedule of five years. At December 31, 2011, total residential real estate loans amounted to $83.5 million, or 28.4% of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, our residential real estate mortgage loans had an average size of $54,000 and the largest loan was $2.3 million.
 
We provide customers access to long-term conventional real estate loans through our mortgage loan division, which underwrites loans that are purchased by unaffiliated third party brokers in the secondary market. We receive fees in connection with the sale of mortgage loans, with these fees aggregating $315,000 and $314,000 for the years ending December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  We do not retain servicing rights with respect to the secondary market residential mortgage loans that we originate.
 
Consumer.  We make personal loans and lines of credit available to consumers for various purposes, such as the purchase of automobiles, boats and other recreational vehicles, and the making of home improvements and personal investments. Consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than residential mortgage loans and usually involve more credit risk than mortgage loans because of the type and nature of the collateral. Consumer lending collections are dependent on a borrower’s continuing financial stability and are thus likely to be adversely affected by job loss, illness or personal bankruptcy. In many cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan will not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance because of depreciation of the underlying collateral. We emphasize the amount of the down payment, credit quality and history, employment stability and monthly income. These loans are expected generally to be repaid on a monthly 
 
6





Table of Contents
 
repayment schedule with the payment amount tied to the borrower’s periodic income. We believe that the generally higher yields earned on consumer loans help compensate for the increased credit risk associated with such loans and that consumer loans are important to our efforts to serve the credit needs of our customer base. At December 31, 2011, total consumer loans amounted to $8.0 million, or 2.7% of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, our consumer loans had an average size of $5,000, and the largest loan was $437,000.
 
Loan Underwriting and Approval.  We seek to make sound, high quality loans while recognizing that lending money involves a degree of business risk. Our loan policies are designed to assist us in managing this business risk. These policies provide a general framework for our loan operations while recognizing that not all risk activities and procedures can be anticipated. Our loan policies instruct lending personnel to use care and prudent decision making and to seek the guidance of our Chief Credit Officer, our Vice President of Credit Administration, or our President and Chief Executive Officer where appropriate.
 
Deposit Products
 
Our principal source of funds is core deposits. We offer a range of deposit products and services including checking accounts, savings accounts, NOW accounts, money market accounts, sweep accounts, fixed and variable rate IRA accounts, Christmas Club accounts and certificate of deposit accounts. We solicit accounts from a wide variety of customers, including individuals and small to medium-sized businesses. We actively pursue business checking accounts by offering competitive rates and other convenient services to our business customers. In some cases, we require business customers to maintain minimum balances. We offer a deposit pick-up service to our commercial customers that enable these customers to make daily cash deposits through one of our couriers. At December 31, 2011, we had total deposits of $332.7 million.
 
Other Banking Services
 
Our retail banking strategy is to offer basic banking products and services that are attractively priced and easily understood by the customer. We focus on making our products and services convenient and readily accessible to the customer. In addition to banking during normal business hours, we offer extended drive-through hours, ATMs, and banking by telephone, mail and personal appointment. We have twelve ATMs located within our markets. We also provide debit cards, credit cards, safekeeping and safe deposit boxes, ACH and other direct deposit services, savings bond redemptions, cashier’s checks, travelers’ checks and letters of credit. We have also established relationships with correspondent banks and other independent financial institutions to provide other services requested by customers, including cash management services, wire transfer services, and loan participations where the requested loan amount exceeds the lending limits imposed by law or by our policies. We maintain an internet banking website at www.citizensfirstbank.com, which allows customers to obtain account balances and transfer funds among accounts. The website also provides online bill payment and electronic delivery of customer statements.
 
7





Table of Contents
 
We provide title insurance services to mortgage loan customers for a fee and, through third party providers, we offer other insurance services and trust services and receive a fee for referrals. We offer non-deposit investment services and products through an agreement with a broker-dealer.  We earn advisory fees and commissions from the sale of these services and products.  The objective of offering these products and services is to generate fee income and strengthen relationships with our customers.
 
Competition and Market Area
 
The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. Our profitability depends upon our ability to compete in the market area in which our bank offices are located.  We compete for deposits, loans and other banking services generally on the basis of convenient office locations, interest rates offered on deposit accounts and charged on loans, fees and the range of services offered. We compete with existing area financial institutions other than commercial banks and savings banks, including commercial bank loan production offices, mortgage companies, insurance companies, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, credit unions, money market funds and other business entities which have recently entered traditional banking markets.
 
Our market area consists of a ten county region located in south central Kentucky known as the Barren River Area Development District.  This region consists of Allen, Barren, Butler, Edmonson, Hart, Logan, Metcalfe, Monroe, Simpson, and Warren Counties in Kentucky. Our most competitive market is the Bowling Green MSA. As of June 30, 2011, there were 20 financial institutions operating a total of 59 offices in the Bowling Green MSA. In addition, there are six financial institutions operating a total of 7 offices in Simpson County, four institutions operating a total of 5 offices in Hart County and eight financial institutions operating 19 offices in Barren County.
 
Employees
 
At December 31, 2011, we had 100 full-time equivalent employees. Management considers its relations with its employees to be good. Neither we nor the Bank are a party to any collective bargaining agreement.
 
Supervision and Regulation
 
We are subject to extensive state and federal banking laws and regulations that impose restrictions on and provide for general regulatory oversight of our operations.  These laws and regulations are generally intended to protect customers and depositors and not shareholders.  The following summary briefly describes some material provisions of the regulatory framework which apply to us.  It is qualified by reference to the statutory and regulatory provisions discussed, and is not intended to be a complete list of all the activities regulated by the banking laws or of the impact of such laws and regulations on our operations. It is intended only to briefly summarize some material provisions.
 
8





Table of Contents
 
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.  In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, incorporating numerous financial institution regulatory reforms. Many of these reforms were implemented over the course of 2011 through regulations adopted by various federal banking and securities regulatory agencies, while others are expected to be implemented during 2012. The following discussion describes the material elements of the regulatory framework that currently apply. The Dodd-Frank Act implements far-reaching reforms of major elements of the financial landscape, particularly for larger financial institutions. Many of its most far-reaching provisions do not directly impact community-based institutions like Citizens First.  For instance, provisions that regulate derivative transactions and limit derivatives trading activity of federally-insured institutions, enhance supervision of “systemically significant” institutions, impose new regulatory authority over hedge funds, limit proprietary trading by banks, and phase-out the eligibility of trust preferred securities for Tier 1 capital are among the provisions that do not directly impact us either because of exemptions for institutions below a certain asset size or because of the nature of our operations. Other provisions that have either been adopted or are expected to be adopted that have impacted and will continue to impact the Company and the Bank include:
 
·                  Changing the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated assets less tangible capital, eliminating the ceiling and increasing the size of the floor of the Deposit Insurance Fund, and offsetting the impact of the increase in the minimum floor on institutions with less than $10 billion in assets.
 
·                  Making permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance, increasing the cash limit of Securities Investor Protection Corporation protection to $250,000 and providing unlimited federal deposit insurance until December 31, 2012 for non-interest-bearing demand transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions.
 
·                  Repealing the federal prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depositing institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts.
 
·                  Centralizing responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, responsible for implementing federal consumer protection laws, although banks below $10 billion in assets will continue to be examined and supervised for compliance with these laws by their federal bank regulator.
 
·                  Limiting the debit interchange fees that certain financial institutions are permitted to charge.
 
·                  Imposing new requirements for mortgage lending, including new minimum underwriting standards, prohibitions on certain yield-spread compensation to mortgage originators, special consumer protections for mortgage loans that do 
 
9





Table of Contents
 
                             not meet certain provision qualifications, prohibitions and limitations on certain mortgage terms and various new mandated disclosures to mortgage borrowers.
 
·                  Applying the same leverage and risk based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to holding companies, although our currently outstanding trust preferred securities (but not new issuances) will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital.
 
·                  Permitting national and state banks to establish de novo interstate branches at any location where a bank based in that state could establish a branch, and requiring that bank holding companies and banks be well-capitalized and well managed in order to acquire banks located outside their home state.
 
·                  Imposing new limits on affiliated transactions and causing derivative transactions to be subject to lending limits.
 
·                  Implementing certain corporate governance revisions that apply to all public companies.
 
As described above, many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are not yet effective and remain subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, and their impact on the Company or the financial industry is difficult to predict before such regulations are adopted.
 
Citizens First Corporation
 
We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.  As such, we are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the “Federal Reserve”) under the Bank Holding Company Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder. We are required to file periodic reports of our operations and any additional information the Federal Reserve may require.
 
Acquisitions. A bank holding company must obtain Federal Reserve Board approval before acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting stock or all or substantially all of the assets of a bank, merging or consolidating with any other bank holding company and before engaging, or acquiring a company that is not a bank but is engaged in certain non-banking activities. Federal law also prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring “control” of a bank holding company without notifying the Federal Reserve Board in advance and then only if the Federal Reserve Board does not object to the proposed transaction. The Federal Reserve Board has established a rebuttable presumptive standard that the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting stock of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 would constitute an acquisition of control of the bank holding company. In addition, any company is required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring 25% (5% in the case of an acquirer that is a bank holding company) or more of any class of a bank holding company’s voting securities, or otherwise obtaining control or a “controlling influence” over a bank holding company.
 
10





Table of Contents
 
Permissible Activities. A bank holding company is generally permitted under the Bank Holding Company Act to engage in or acquire direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company engaged in banking or managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for our subsidiaries and any activity that the Federal Reserve determines to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking.
 
As a bank holding company, we may elect to become a financial holding company, which enables the holding company to conduct activities that are “financial in nature.” Activities that are “financial in nature” include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking activities; and activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be closely related to banking. We have not sought financial holding company status. If we were to elect in writing for financial holding company status, each insured depository institution we controlled would have to be well capitalized, well managed and have at least a satisfactory CRA rating.
 
Participation in Capital Purchase Program. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) became law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury was given the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets.
 
On October 14, 2008, the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury announced that the Department of the Treasury would purchase equity stakes in a wide variety of banks and thrifts. Under the program, known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program (the “Capital Purchase Program”), from the $700 billion authorized by the EESA, the Treasury made $250 billion of capital available to U.S. financial institutions in the form of preferred stock. In conjunction with the purchase of preferred stock, the Treasury received, from participating financial institutions, warrants to purchase common stock with an aggregate market price equal to 15% of the preferred investment. Participating financial institutions were required to adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds equity issued under the Capital Purchase Program.
 
On December 19, 2008, we sold to the U.S. Treasury 250 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, having a liquidation amount per share of $35,116, and a warrant to purchase 254,218 shares of our common stock, at an initial per share exercise price of $5.18, for an aggregate purchase price of $8,779,000.  The Series A Preferred Stock pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per year for the first five years and 9% per year thereafter.  Pursuant to the terms of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) we may, upon prior consultation with Citizen First’s and the Bank’s appropriate regulatory agency, redeem the Series A preferred stock at any time. On February 16, 2011, we repurchased 63 shares of the Series A preferred stock for a purchase price of $2.2 million.  Upon full redemption of the Series 
 
11





Table of Contents
 
A preferred stock, we may also repurchase the associated warrant.  The Series A preferred stock is generally non-voting.
 
As a result of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we agreed to various requirements and restrictions imposed on all participants in the Capital Purchase Program. Among the terms of participation was a provision that the Treasury Department could change the terms of participation at any time.
 
The current terms of participation in the Capital Purchase Program include the following:
 
·                  We filed with the SEC a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 registering for resale the Warrant and any shares of common stock issuable from time to time upon exercise of the Warrant.
 
·                  As long as the Series A preferred stock remains outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods on the Series A preferred stock are fully paid, we will not be permitted to declare or pay dividends on any common stock, any junior preferred shares or, generally, any preferred shares ranking pari passu with the Series A preferred stock (other than, in the case of pari passu preferred shares, dividends on a pro rata basis with the Series A preferred stock), nor will we be permitted to repurchase or redeem any common stock or preferred shares other than the Series A preferred stock.
 
As a recipient of government funding under the Capital Purchase Program, we must also comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA for so long as the Treasury Department holds any securities acquired from us.  The Treasury Department adopted rules for these standards in June 2009. The standards imposed by the ARRA include, without limitation, the following:
 
·                  ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executive officers does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution;
 
·                  any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a senior executive officer based on statements of earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate must be subject to recovery or “clawback” by us;
 
·                  we are prohibited from paying or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation with respect to our most highly compensated officer, except for certain grants of restricted stock;
 
·                  severance payments to the senior executive officers or the next five most highly-compensated employees, generally referred to as “golden parachute” payments, are prohibited, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued;
 
·                  compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings are prohibited;
 
12





Table of Contents
 
·                  the Treasury Department may retroactively review bonuses, retention awards and other compensation previously paid to a senior executive officer or any of our 20 next most highly-compensated employees that the Treasury Department finds to be inconsistent with the purposes of the Capital Purchase Program or otherwise contrary to the public interest;
 
·                  our Board of Directors must establish a company-wide policy regarding excessive or luxury expenditures;
 
·                  our proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings must permit a non-binding “say on pay” shareholder vote on the compensation of executives;
 
·                  compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive officer must not be deducted for federal income tax purposes; and
 
·                  We must comply with the executive compensation reporting and recordkeeping requirements established by the Treasury Department.
 
The Treasury Department has certain supervisory and oversight duties and responsibilities under the EESA, the Capital Purchase Program and the ARRA. Also, the Special Inspector General for TARP has the duty, among other things, to conduct, supervise and coordinate audits and investigations of the purchase, management and sale of assets by the Treasury Department under the Capital Purchase Program, including the Series A preferred stock purchased from us.
 
Capital Requirements.  We are required to comply with the capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve at the holding company level, and the FDIC at the bank level.  The Federal Reserve has established a risk-based and a leverage measure of capital adequacy for bank holding companies. The Bank is also subject to risk-based and leverage capital requirements adopted by the FDIC, which are substantially similar to those adopted by the Federal Reserve for bank holding companies. The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among depository institutions and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets.  Under the guidelines, specific categories of assets are assigned different risk weights, based generally on the perceived credit risk of the asset. These risk weights are multiplied by corresponding asset balances to determine a “risk-weighted” asset base.
 
The Federal Reserve guidelines require a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0%. At least half of the total capital must be composed of common equity, retained earnings, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U. S. Treasury under the CPP and qualifying perpetual preferred stock and certain hybrid capital instruments, less certain intangible assets (“Tier 1 capital”). The remainder may consist of certain subordinated debt, certain hybrid capital instruments, qualifying preferred stock and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses (“Tier 2 capital”). Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. To be considered well-capitalized under the risk-based
 
13





Table of Contents
 
capital guidelines, an institution must maintain a total capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of 6% or greater and not be subject to a written directive, agreement or order to maintain capital at a specific level. As of December 31, 2011, our ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets was 13.19% and our ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets was 11.94%.
 
In addition, the Federal Reserve Board has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. These guidelines provide that a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets, of at least 4% should be maintained for most bank holding companies. The guidelines also provide that bank holding companies experiencing high internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will consider a bank holding company’s Tier 1 capital leverage ratio, after deducting all intangibles, and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. We are required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4%.  As of December 31, 2011, our leverage ratio was 9.46%.
 
In late 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued Basel III, a new capital framework for banks and bank holding companies. Basel III will impose a stricter definition of capital, with more focus on common equity for those banks to which it is applicable. At this time, we do not know whether Basel III, as implemented in the United States, will be applicable to us and the Bank.
 
The Federal Reserve has recently adopted regulations applicable to bank holding companies with assets over $50 billion that require such holding companies to develop and submit to the Federal Reserve annually capital plans demonstrating the company’s ability to meet, under various stressed economic conditions and over a nine-quarter planning horizon, the above-described minimum leverage capital, Tier 1 risk based capital and total risk based capital requirements, as well as a minimum Tier 1 common capital ratio (Tier 1 risk based capital less preferred stock and trust preferred securities) of at least 5%.
 
The Dodd-Frank Act contains a number of provisions dealing with capital adequacy of insured depository institutions and their holding companies, and for the most part will result in insured depository institutions and their holding companies being subject to more stringent capital requirements. Under the so-called Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal regulators have established minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for, among other entities, banks and bank holding companies on a consolidated basis. These minimum requirements require that a bank holding company maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of not less than 4% and a total risk-based capital ratio of not less than 8%. The Collins Amendment also excludes trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010 from being included in Tier 1 capital unless the issuing company is a bank holding company with less than $500 million in total assets. Trust preferred securities issued prior to that date will continue to count as Tier 1 capital for bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets, and such securities will be phased out of Tier 1 capital treatment for bank holding companies with over $15
 
14





Table of Contents
 
billion in total assets over a three-year period beginning in 2013. The Collins Amendment did not exclude preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury through the CPP from Tier 1 capital treatment. Accordingly, the Company’s trust preferred securities and preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury through the Capital Purchase Program will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital.
 
More information concerning our, and the Bank’s, regulatory ratios at December 31, 2011 is included in Note 15 to the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Dividends. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from Citizens First Bank. The majority of our revenue is from dividends paid to us by Citizens First Bank.  Statutory and regulatory limitations apply to the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us as well as to our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We did not pay any dividends to our common shareholders in 2011.
 
Under Kentucky law, we are not permitted to pay dividends to the extent they result in the insolvency of the corporation from a balance sheet perspective or in the corporation becoming unable to pay debts as they come due.
 
In addition to the limitations on our ability to pay dividends under Kentucky law, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is also limited by our participation in the Capital Purchase Program. Prior to December 19, 2011 the consent of the U.S. Treasury was required before we could declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on our common stock above the amount of our last cash dividend of $0.05 per share. After December 19, 2011 we are no longer subject to this restriction; however, if we are not current in the payment of quarterly dividends on the Series A preferred stock, we cannot pay dividends on our common stock.  Additionally, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis under certain circumstances may preclude us from paying dividends on our Series A preferred stock or trust preferred securities.  Recent supervisory guidance from the Federal Reserve indicates that Capital Purchase Program participants that are experiencing financial difficulties generally should eliminate, reduce or defer dividends on Tier 1 capital instruments, including trust preferred, preferred stock or common stock, if the holding company needs to conserve capital for safe and sound operation and to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiaries.
 
Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates. Both the Company and the Bank are subject to the provisions of Section 23A and Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act.  Section 23A places limits on the amount of a bank’s loans or extensions of credit to affiliates, a bank’s investment in an affiliate, assets a bank may purchase from affiliates, except for real and personal property exempted by the obligations of affiliates, the amount of loans or extensions of credit to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates, transactions involving the borrowing or lending of securities and any derivative transaction that results in credit exposure to an affiliate, and a bank’s guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit issued on behalf of an affiliate.
 
The total amount of the above transactions is limited in amount, as to any one affiliate, to 10% of a bank’s capital and surplus and, as to all affiliates combined, to 20% of a
 
15





Table of Contents
 
bank’s capital and surplus. In addition to the limitation on the amount of these transactions, each of the above transactions must also meet specified collateral requirements. The Bank must also comply with other provisions designed to avoid the taking of low-quality assets.
 
Section 23B prohibits an institution from engaging in the above transactions with affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies.
 
Source of Strength. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, and previously under Federal Reserve policy, we are required to act as a source of financial strength for and to commit resources to support the Bank in circumstances in which might not otherwise do so.  This support may be required at times when, absent such Federal Reserve policy, we may not be inclined to provide it. If the Bank were to become undercapitalized, we would be required to provide a guarantee of the Bank’s plan to return to capital adequacy.  In addition, any loans by a bank holding company to any of its banking subsidiaries are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to other indebtedness of such banks.  In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.
 
Citizens First Bank
 
The Bank is a state bank chartered under the banking laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.  As a result, we are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of both the Kentucky Department of Financial Institutions (KDFI) and the FDIC.
 
We also are subject to numerous state and federal statutes and regulations that affect our business activities and operations, including restrictions on loan limits, interest rates, “insider” loans to officers, directors, and principal shareholders, tie-in arrangements and transactions with affiliates, among other things.
 
Federal and state regulators also have authority to impose substantial sanctions on the Bank and its directors and its directors and officers if we engage in unsafe or unsound practices, or otherwise fail to comply with regulatory standards. Supervisory agreements, such as memoranda of understanding entered into with federal and state bank regulators, may also impose requirements and reporting obligations.
 
Branching.  With prior regulatory approval and/or notices, as applicable, Kentucky law permits banks based in the state to either establish new or acquire existing branch offices throughout Kentucky. Furthermore, federal legislation permits interstate branching, including out-of-state acquisitions by bank holding companies, interstate branching by banks and interstate merging by banks.  The Dodd-Frank Act removed previous state law restrictions on de novo interstate branching in states such as
 
16





Table of Contents
 
Kentucky.  This change permits out-of-state banks to open de novo branches in states where the laws of the state where the de novo branch to be opened would permit a bank chartered by that state to open a de novo branch.
 
FDIC Insurance.  The deposits of the Bank are currently insured to the maximum amount allowable per depositor through the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) administered by the FDIC.  The FDIC maintains a risk-based assessment system for determining deposit insurance premiums. Four risk categories (I-IV), each subject to different premium rates, are established, based upon an institution’s status as well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized, and the institution’s supervisory rating. The levels of rates are subject to periodic adjustment by the FDIC.
 
Dodd-Frank permanently increased the maximum deposit insurance amount for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, and extended unlimited deposit insurance to non-interest bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2012. Dodd-Frank also broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now to be based on a financial institution’s average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital. Dodd-Frank requires the FDIC to increase the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits by 2020 and eliminates the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to insured depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. Dodd-Frank eliminated the statutory prohibition against the payment of interest on business checking accounts, effective July 2011.
 
There are three adjustments that can be made to an institution’s initial base assessment rate: (1) a potential decrease for long-term unsecured debt, including senior and subordinated debt and, for small institutions, a portion of Tier 1 capital; (2) a potential increase for secured liabilities above a threshold amount; and (3) for non-Risk Category I institutions, a potential increase for brokered deposits above a threshold amount. The schedule for base assessment rates and potential adjustment is set forth in the following table.
 



  

  

Risk   Category I 

  

Risk   Category II 

  

Risk   Category III 

  

Risk   Category IV 

   


Initial Base Assessment Rate 

  

5 to 9 

  

14 

  

32 

  

35 

   


Unsecured Debt Adjustment (added) 

  

(4.5) to 0 

  

(5) to 0 

  

(5) to 0 

  

(5) to 0 

   


Brokered Deposit Adjustment (added) 

  

N/A 

  

0 to 10 

  

0 to 10 

  

0 to 10 

   


Total Base Assessment Rate 

  

2.5 to 9 

  

9 to 24 

  

18 to 33 

  

30 to 45 

    
 
Additionally the FDIC may impose special assessments from time to time.
 
Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action.  Similar to the Federal Reserve Board’s requirements for bank holding companies, the FDIC has adopted risk-based capital requirements for assessing state non-member banks’ capital adequacy. The FDIC’s risk-based capital guidelines require that all banks maintain a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8.0% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 4.0%. To be well-capitalized, a bank must have a ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of at least 10.0% and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 6.0%. The FDIC also requires a minimum leverage ratio of 
 
17





Table of Contents
 
3.0% of Tier 1 capital to total assets for the highest rated banks and an additional cushion of approximately 100-200 basis points for all other banks, which will effectively increase the minimum leverage ratio for other banks to 4.0% or 5.0% of Tier 1 capital or more. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank’s leverage ratio was 9.32%. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank’s ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets was 13.05% and its ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets was 11.79%.
 
Failure to meet statutorily mandated capital guidelines or more restrictive ratios separately established for a financial institution could subject a bank or bank holding company to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on accepting or renewing brokered deposits, limitations on the rates of interest that the institution may pay on its deposits and other restrictions on its business. As described above, significant additional restrictions can be imposed on FDIC-insured depository institutions that fail to meet applicable capital requirements.
 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”) established a system of prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. Under this system, the federal banking regulators established five capital categories (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized), into one of which each institution is placed. With respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories, the regulators must take prescribed supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions. The severity of the action depends upon the capital category into which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the banking regulator must appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. The federal banking agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital level for each category.
 
If the bank is not well capitalized, it cannot accept brokered deposits without prior FDIC approval. Even if approved, rate restrictions apply governing the rate the bank may be permitted to pay on the brokered deposits. In addition, a bank that is undercapitalized cannot offer an effective yield in excess of 75 basis points over the “national rate” paid on deposits (including brokered deposits, if approval is granted for the bank to accept them) of comparable size and maturity. The “national rate” is defined as a simple average of rates paid by insured depository institution and branches for which data are available and is published weekly by the FDIC. Institutions subject to the restrictions that believe they are operating in an area where the rates paid on deposits are higher than the “national rate” can use the local market to determine the prevailing rate if they seek and receive a determination from the FDIC that it is operating in a high-rate area. Regardless of the determination, institutions must use the national rate to determine conformance for all deposits outside their market area.
 
An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking agency. A bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution meets its capital restoration plan, subject to limitations.  The controlling bank holding company’s obligation to fund a capital restoration plan is
 
18





Table of Contents
 
limited to the lesser of 5% of an undercapitalized subsidiary’s assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with FDIC approval. The regulations also establish procedures for downgrading an institution and a lower capital category based on supervisory factors other than capital.
 
An insured depository institution may not pay a management fee to a bank holding company controlling that institution or any other person having control of the institution if, after making the payment, the institution would be undercapitalized. In addition, an institution cannot make a capital distribution, such as a dividend or other distribution that is in substance a distribution of capital to the owners of the institution if following such a distribution the institution would be undercapitalized. Thus, if payment of such a management fee or the making of such would cause the bank to become undercapitalized, it could not pay a management fee or dividend to us.
 
Community Reinvestment. The Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requires that the FDIC in connection with examinations of financial institutions within their respective jurisdictions, a financial institution’s primary regulator, which is the FDIC for the Bank, shall evaluate the record of each financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. These factors are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could impose additional requirements and limitations on the Bank. At our last regulatory examination, the Bank received a “satisfactory” CRA rating.
 
Consumer Protection Laws. The Bank is subject to consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers. Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by the bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. The Bank’s loan operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions such as the:
 
·                  Federal Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers;
 
·                  Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves;
 
·                  Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit;
 
·                  Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies;
 
19





Table of Contents
 
·                  Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies;
 
·                  Bank Secrecy Act, governing how banks and other firms report certain currency transactions and maintain appropriate safeguards against “money laundering” activities;
 
·                  Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, governing the repayment terms of, and property rights underlying, secured obligations of persons in active military service; and
 
·                  Rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing the federal laws.
 
The Bank’s deposit operations are subject to the:
 
·                  Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; and
 
·                  Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the Federal Reserve to implement that act, which govern automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers’ rights and liabilities (including with respect to the permissibility of overdraft charges) arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services.
 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Dodd-Frank created a new, independent federal agency called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) which is granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth in Lending Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Act, the Consumer Financial Privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain other statutes. The CFPB will have examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. Smaller institutions will be subject to rules promulgated by the CFPB but will continue to be examined and supervised by federal banking regulators for consumer compliance purposes. The CFPB will have authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. Dodd-Frank authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay. In addition, Dodd-Frank will allow borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan, other than a “qualified mortgage” as defined by the CFPB. Dodd-Frank permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations.
 
20





Table of Contents
 
Privacy. Federal law currently contains extensive customer privacy protections provisions. Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, at the inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter, the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial information. These provisions also provide that, except for certain limited exceptions, an institution may not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means.
 
Anti-Money Laundering; USA Patriot Act. Financial institutions must maintain anti-money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures, and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing employee training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. We are prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence in dealings with foreign financial institutions and foreign customers.  We also must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions.  Recent laws provide law enforcement authorities with increased access to financial information maintained by banks. Anti-money laundering obligations have been substantially strengthened as a result of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”), enacted in 2001, renewed in 2006 and extended, in part, in 2011. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications.
 
The USA Patriot Act amended, in part, the Bank Secrecy Act and provides for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering. The statute also creates enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including: (1) requiring standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; (2) promulgating rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; (3) requiring reports by nonfinancial trades and businesses filed with the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for transactions exceeding $10,000; and (4) mandating the filing of suspicious activities reports if a bank believes a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations.  The statute also requires enhanced due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain, or manage private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non-U.S. persons.
 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation may send bank regulatory agencies lists of the names of persons suspected of involvement in terrorist activities. The Bank may be subject to a request for a search of its records for any relationships or transactions with persons on those lists and may be required to report any identified relationships or 
 
21





Table of Contents
 
transactions. Furthermore, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) is responsible for helping to ensure that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC has sent, and will send, bank regulatory agencies lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. If we find a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, we must freeze such account, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate authorities.
 
Dividends. Under Kentucky law, dividends by Kentucky banks may be paid only from current or retained net profits. The Kentucky Department of Financial Institutions must approve the declaration of dividends if the total dividends to be declared by a bank for any calendar year would exceed the bank’s total net profits for such year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or a fund for the retirement of preferred stock or debt.
 
The payment of dividends by the Bank may also be affected by other factors, such as the requirement to maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines.  Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, a depository institution may not pay any dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. If, in the opinion of the FDIC, the Bank was engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, the FDIC could require, after notice and hearing, that the Bank refrain from engaging in the practice. The federal banking agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete a depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. The federal agencies have issued policy statements that provide that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings.
 
Proposed Legislation and Regulatory Action
 
New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations and competitive relationships of the nation’s financial institutions. In 2010, the U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act, which includes significant consumer protection provisions related to, among other things, residential mortgage loans that have increased, and are likely to further increase, our regulatory compliance costs. We expect that the Dodd-Frank Act will continue to have a negative impact on our earnings through fee reductions, higher costs and new restrictions. The ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and results of operations will depend on regulatory interpretation and rulemaking, as well as the success of any of our actions to mitigate the negative earnings impact of certain provisions. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. With the enactments of EESA, ARRA and the Dodd-Frank Act and the significant amount of regulations that have been issued in 2010 and 2011 and that are to come from the passage of that legislation, the nature and extent of the future legislative and regulatory changes affecting financial institutions and the resulting impact on those institutions is very unpredictable at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act, in
 
22





Table of Contents
 
particular, requires that a significant number of new regulations be adopted by various financial regulatory agencies over 2012.
 
Effects of Governmental Policies and Economic Conditions
 
Our earnings are affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government, and its agencies. The Federal Reserve’s monetary policies have had, and are likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through the Federal Reserve’s statutory power to implement national monetary policy in order, among other things, to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve, through its monetary and fiscal policies, affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject.  We cannot predict the nature and impact of future changes in monetary or fiscal policies.
 
Available Information
 
We file reports with the SEC including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current event reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. The public may read and copy any materials the Registrant files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are accessible at no cost on our web site at http://www.citizensfirstbank.com, under the Investors Relations section, once they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. A shareholder may also request a copy of our Annual Report or Form 10-K free of charge upon written request to: Chief Financial Officer, Citizens First Corporation, 1065 Ashley Street, Suite 150, Bowling Green, Kentucky 42103.
 
Item 1A. Risk Factors
 
Our business, financial condition, and results of operation could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely.  Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.
 
Current market developments could continue to adversely affect our industry, business, and results of operations.
 
23





Table of Contents
 
We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain conditions nationally and locally in our markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market that have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage, construction and commercial real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. We retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we are affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers and/or their customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
In particular, we face the following risks in connection with these events:
 
·                  Further declines in the housing market and the increased volatility of the stock market may adversely affect consumer confidence and may cause adverse changes in loan payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates.
 
·                  The processes we use to estimate probable losses and impairment of assets, including investment securities, may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation.
 
·                  Declines in consumer confidence could also result in withdrawal of deposit funds by consumers, negatively impacting our liquidity.
 
·                  We may be required to pay increasingly higher FDIC premiums because of the increased deposit coverage and the closure of other financial institutions could deplete the insurance fund of the FDIC.
 
Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable economic conditions across a large number of diversified economic and geographic locations. As each of the above conditions continues to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition, including reducing earning or significant losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges.
 
We are exposed to higher credit risk by commercial real estate, commercial and agricultural loans.
 
Commercial real estate and commercial and agricultural lending usually involve higher credit risks than that of single-family residential lending. As of December 31, 2011, the following loan types accounted for the stated percentages of our total loan portfolio: commercial real estate—48.9%, commercial and agricultural—20.0%. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers.
 
24





Table of Contents
 
Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner.
 
Commercial loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans have the following characteristics: (a) they depreciate over time, (b) they are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (c) they fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.
 
Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing, and the builder’s ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral.
 
Commercial real estate and commercial and agricultural loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans.
 
The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures.
 
Since our business is primarily concentrated in the south central Kentucky area, a downturn in the local economy may adversely affect our business.
 
Our lending and deposit gathering activities have been historically concentrated primarily in the south central Kentucky area and our success depends on the general economic condition of the area. Adverse changes in the regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosure, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for the Bank’s products and services, and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
 
25





Table of Contents
 
We cannot assure you that economic conditions, including loan demand, in our markets will improve during 2012 or thereafter, and in that case, we may not be able to grow our loan portfolio in line with our expectations, the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us may be negatively impacted and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.
 
Compared to regional or national financial institutions, we are less able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or return of more favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur.
 
If our allowance for loan losses proves to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, our earnings will decrease.
 
Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things:
 
·         cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;
 
·         in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral;
 
·         the credit history of a particular borrower;
 
·         changes in economic and industry conditions; and
 
·         the duration of the loan.
 
We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. In addition, estimating loan loss allowances for growing portfolios is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
 
In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs,
 
26





Table of Contents
 
based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Our current and future allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions.
 
Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our relatively high concentration of loans collateralized by real estate.
 
Approximately 78.6% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. Further adverse changes in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary market specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition.
 
National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings.
 
Federal bank regulators are increasing regulatory scrutiny, and additional restrictions (including those originating from the Dodd-Frank Act) on financial institutions have been proposed or adopted by regulators and by Congress. Changes in tax law, federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, consumer protection laws, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or charge-offs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Many state and municipal governments, including the Commonwealth of Kentucky, are under financial stress due to the economy. As a result, these governments could seek to increase their tax revenues through increased tax levies which could have a meaningful impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the continued issuance of additional formal or informal enforcement or supervisory actions. These actions, whether formal or informal, could result in our agreeing to limitations or to take actions that limit our operational flexibility, restrict our growth or increase our capital or liquidity levels. Failure to comply with any formal or informal regulatory restrictions, including informal supervisory actions, could lead to further regulatory enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans.
 
27





Table of Contents
 
Implementation of the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our operating costs or otherwise have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act. This landmark legislation includes, among other things, (i) the creation of a Financial Services Oversight Counsel to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; (ii) the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision and the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions and their holding companies to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve; (iii) the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products that would affect banks and non-bank finance companies; (iv) the establishment of new capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; (v) the termination of investments by the U.S. Treasury under TARP; (vi) enhanced regulation of financial markets, including the derivatives, securitization and mortgage origination markets; (vii) the elimination of certain proprietary trading and private equity investment activities by banks; (viii) the elimination of barriers to de novo interstate branching by banks; (ix) a permanent increase of the previously implemented temporary increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; (x) the authorization of interest-bearing transaction accounts; and (xi) changes in how the FDIC deposit insurance assessments will be calculated and an increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund.
 
Certain provisions of the legislation are not immediately effective or are subject to required studies and implementing regulations. Further, community banks with less than $10 billion in assets (like us) are exempt from certain provisions of the legislation. Although certain regulations implementing portions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been promulgated, we are still unable to predict how this significant new legislation may be interpreted and enforced or how implementing regulations and supervisory policies may affect us. There can be no assurance that these or future reforms will not significantly increase our compliance or operating costs or otherwise have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
If we are unable to redeem the remaining outstanding shares of our Series A preferred stock prior to December 18, 2013, the dividend rate payable by us on those shares increases to 9% per annum.
 
The dividend rate on our Series A preferred stock is currently 5% per annum and will remain 5% per annum until the five year anniversary of the issuance date of those shares. Thereafter, the dividend rate increases to 9% per annum. While we believe that we will be able to redeem the remaining outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock prior to the dividend rate increasing, we must receive the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis in order to do so. While we believe that we will be able to redeem the remaining outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock with minimal or no dilution to our common shareholders, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis may require us to increase our common equity capital in connection with granting its required approval.  If we are required to sell additional shares of common stock to raise
 
28





Table of Contents
 
additional equity capital in connection with the redemption of shares of our Series A preferred stock that remain outstanding, we may have to sell these shares of common stock at prices below the then current market price of those shares, diluting the ownership interest of our then common shareholders.
 
Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions.
 
We, and the Bank, are required to maintain certain capital levels established by banking regulations or specified by bank regulators, including those capital maintenance standards imposed on us as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, and we are required to serve as a source of strength to the Bank. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions. The Bank will be required to obtain regulatory approval in order to pay dividends to us unless the amount of such dividends does not exceed its retained net profits for that year plus the preceding two years. Failure by our bank subsidiary to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements could subject our bank subsidiary to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities.
 
Our operations depend upon our continued ability to access Federal Home Loan Bank advances.
 
Due to the high level of competition for deposits in our market, we utilize advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati to help fund our asset base. Federal Home Loan Bank advances may generally be more sensitive to changes in interest rates and volatility in the capital markets than retail deposits attracted through our branch network, and our reliance on these sources of funds increases the sensitivity of our portfolio to these external factors.  At December 31, 2011, we had $25.0 million in Federal Home Loan Bank advances.
 
Federal Home Loan Bank advances are only available to borrowers that meet certain conditions. If the Bank were to cease meeting these conditions, our access to Federal Home Loan Bank advances could be significantly reduced or eliminated. We rely on these sources of funds because we believe that generating funds through Federal Home Loan Bank advances in many instances decreases our cost of funds, relative to the cost of generating and retaining retail deposits through our branch network. If our access to Federal Home Loan Bank advances were reduced or eliminated for whatever reason, the resulting decrease in our net interest income or limitation on our ability to fund additional loans would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
Certain Federal Home Loan Banks have experienced lower earnings from time to time and paid out lower dividends to its members. Future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the 
 
29





Table of Contents
 
borrowings extended to its member banks, as well as require additional capital contributions by its member banks. Should this occur, our short term liquidity needs could be negatively impacted. Should we be restricted from using Federal Home Loan Bank advances due to weakness in the system or with the Federal Home Loan Bank, we may be forced to find alternative funding sources. These alternative funding sources may include seeking lines of credit with third party banks or the Federal Reserve Bank, borrowing under repurchase agreement lines, increasing deposit rates to attract additional funds, accessing brokered deposits, or selling certain investment securities categorized as available-for-sale in order to maintain adequate levels of liquidity.
 
Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations.
 
A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. At December 31, 2011, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $4.1 million. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial position.
 
The Company’s securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations.
 
Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of change in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, our intent to sell or determination that we will not be required to sell investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit loss recognized as a charge to earnings. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to recognize further impairments in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.
 
Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry.
 
We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business by focusing on our geographic market and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits
 
30





Table of Contents
 
and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller and newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than us in order to obtain a larger share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services.
 
We also experience competition from a variety of institutions outside of our market area. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer.
 
We may be adversely affected by further increases in FDIC insurance or special assessments.
 
Our earnings, liquidity, and capital may be affected by FDIC assessments.  In February 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule increasing insurance assessments and also proposed a special 20 basis point one-time emergency special assessment.  The proposed 20 basis point assessment was changed to 5 basis points and was based on total assets rather than deposits.  This special assessment was paid September 30, 2009.  The FDIC has the ability to require additional special assessments if determined necessary.  In November 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule requiring banks to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012.  These prepayments were collected on December 30, 2009 along with the regular assessment for the third quarter of 2009.  Along with this prepayment, insurance rates were increased three basis points beginning with 2011.  In February 2011, the FDIC approved two rules that amend the deposit insurance assessment regulations. The first rule implements a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that changes the assessment base from one based on domestic deposits to one based on assets. The assessment base changes from adjusted domestic deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. The second rule changes the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions in conjunction with the guidance given in the Dodd-Frank Act. Since the new base would be much larger than the current base, the FDIC will lower assessment rates, which achieves the FDIC’s goal of not significantly altering the total amount of revenue collected from the industry. Risk categories and debt ratings will be eliminated from the assessment calculation for large banks which will instead use scorecards. The scorecards will include financial measures that are predictive of long-term performance. A large financial institution will continue to be defined as an insured depository institution with at least $10 billion in assets. Both changes in the assessment system will be effective as of April 1, 2011 and will be payable at the end of September.
 
31





Table of Contents
 
Although we cannot predict what the insurance assessment rates will be in the future, further deterioration in either risk-based capital ratios or adjustments to the base assessment rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
 
We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes.
 
Our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.
 
We generally seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period. As such, we have adopted asset and liability management strategies to attempt to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources, so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest income and net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, the level and shape of the interest rate yield curve, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may be adversely impacted.
 
We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.
 
We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations.  In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital.  In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure
 
32





Table of Contents
 
you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
 
Our exposure to operational risks may adversely affect us.
 
Similar to other financial institutions, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, the risk that sensitive customer or company data is compromised, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors. If any of these risks occur, it could result in material adverse consequences for us.
 
We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements.
 
The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology will increase efficiency and will enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients.
 
As a service to our clients, we currently offer an Internet PC banking product. Use of this service involves the transmission of confidential information over public networks. We cannot be sure that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not result in a compromise or breach in the commercially available encryption and authentication technology that we use to protect our clients’ transaction data. If we were to experience such a breach or compromise, we could suffer losses and our operations could be adversely affected.
 
Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.
 
Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would
 
33





Table of Contents
 
have been reported under a different alternative. For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions.
 
Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our consolidated financial statements.
 
The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC and other regulatory bodies, from time to time may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings.
 
Our internal controls may be ineffective.
 
We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
 
We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue.
 
We receive substantially all of our revenue as dividends from the Bank. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. In the event the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our preferred stock or our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
A small number of customers account for a large percentage of our total deposits.
 
At December 31, 2011, our ten largest deposit customers accounted for approximately $33.7 million, or 10.1%, of total deposits. If one or more of these customers move their deposits, our net income may be adversely impacted as a result of decreased levels of liquidity with which to fund growth in our interest earning assets.
 
34





Table of Contents
 
We rely on certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000 for a significant portion of our deposit funding.
 
At December 31, 2011, $59.4 million, or 17.9% of total deposits, consisted of certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000. These depositors tend to be more active in shopping for better interest rates and therefore are either likely to move their deposits or require active repricing to market. In either event, our net income may be adversely impacted as a result of decreased levels of liquidity with which to fund growth in our interest earning assets or increased interest expense.
 
We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers.
 
Although we do not have any current plans to do so, we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including:
 
·                                the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners;
 
·                                using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;
 
·                                diluting our existing shareholders in an acquisition;
 
·                                the time and expense associated with evaluating new markets for expansion, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, as there may be a substantial time lag between these activities before we generate sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion;
 
·                                taking a significant amount of time negotiating a transaction or working on expansion plans, resulting in management’s attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;
 
·                                the time and expense associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;
 
·                                creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations; and
 
·                                losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received.
 
The decline in fair value of our stock could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, dilute current shareholders’ ownership or make it more expensive to raise capital.
 
35





Table of Contents
 
The decline in the market prices of financial stocks in general, and our stock in particular, could make it more expensive for us to raise capital in the public or private markets. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued securities. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance of common stock at current trading prices would significantly dilute the ownership of our current shareholders because we would have to issue more shares than if we had raised the same amount of capital when our share price was higher. A decline in our performance could adversely impact our stock price and the level of interest in an equity offering making it more difficult or expensive to attract investors’ interest. In the case of a debt offering, it could also result in a higher cost of funds, which could negatively impact our future earnings.
 
Because of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions.
 
Our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare or pay dividends on our common stock or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A preferred stock. Further, our common stock or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the payment of Series A preferred stock dividends.
 
As a recipient of government funding under the Capital Purchase Program, we must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA for so long as the Treasury Department holds any securities acquired from us excluding any period during which the Treasury Department holds only the Warrant. These standards include (but are not limited to) (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for senior executive officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value; (ii) required clawback of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a senior executive officer based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (iii) prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to senior executive officers, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (iv) prohibitions on paying or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation with respect to our President, except for certain grants of restricted stock; (v) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings; (vi) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards or other compensation that the Treasury Department finds to be inconsistent with the purposes of the Capital Purchase Program or otherwise contrary to the public interest; (vii) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures”; (viii) inclusion in our proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings of a non-binding “say on pay” shareholder vote on the compensation of executives; and (ix) agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the senior executive officers in excess of $500,000 per year.
 
The Series A preferred stock impacts net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per share of our common stock, and the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department may be dilutive to holders of our common stock.
 
36





Table of Contents
 
While the additional capital we raised through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program provided further funding to our business, it has increased our equity as well as our preferred dividend requirements.  Warrants issued could potentially dilute earnings for shares of common stock currently outstanding.  The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Series A preferred stock reduces the net income available to holders of our common stock and our earnings per share.  The Series A preferred stock also receives preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up.  Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department is exercised.  The common stock underlying the Warrant represents approximately 11.4% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2011.  Although the Treasury Department has agreed not to vote any of the common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction.
 
Holders of our subordinated debenture have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders.
 
We have supported our growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from a special purpose trust and accompanying subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying subordinated debentures totaling $5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by Citizens First. Further, the accompanying subordinated debentures we issued to the trust is senior to shares of our common stock and preferred stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our preferred stock, or common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holder of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock and preferred stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our subordinated debenture (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock or preferred stock. If our financial condition deteriorates, we may be required to cease paying dividends on our preferred stock and to defer distributions on our subordinated debenture.
 
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.
 
37





Table of Contents
 
Item 2. Properties
 
We currently operate from a ten office network in Warren, Simpson, Barren and Hart Counties, Kentucky.
 



Type of Office 

  

Location 

  

Leased or Owned  


  

  

  

  

   


Corporate   Office 

  

1065   Ashley Street 

  

Owned  


  

  

Bowling   Green, Kentucky 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


Main   Office 

  

1805   Campbell Lane 

  

Leased(1)  


  

  

Bowling   Green, Kentucky 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


Branch 

  

987   Lehman Avenue 

  

Owned  


  

  

Bowling   Green, Kentucky 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


Branch 

  

1200 S. Main   Street 

  

Owned  


  

  

Franklin,   Kentucky 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


Branch 

  

2451   Fitzgerald-Industrial Drive 

  

Owned  


  

  

Bowling   Green, Kentucky 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


Branch 

  

204   East Main Street 

  

Owned  


  

  

Horse   Cave, Kentucky 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


Branch 

  

760   West Cherry 

  

Owned  


  

  

Glasgow,   Kentucky 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


Branch 

  

607   S L Rogers Well Blvd 

  

Leased  


  

  

Glasgow,   KY 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


Branch 

  

656   North Main Street 

  

Leased  


  

  

Munfordville,   Kentucky 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


Branch 

  

1700   Scottsville Road 

  

Owned  


  

  

Bowling   Green, Kentucky 

  

    
 

(1)    We sold this branch in the fourth quarter of 2006 to an unrelated party and leased it back.
 
We also own properties located at 2900 Louisville Road and on Gator Drive in Bowling Green which may be used for future branch expansion.  We also own property at 705 N. Main Street in Franklin where an ATM is located. In February, 2012 we leased an office building on Pascoe Boulevard in Bowling Green for the expansion of our credit administration function.
 
38





Table of Contents
 
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
 
In the opinion of management, there is no proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of management, threatened, in which an adverse decision could result in a material adverse change in the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures. Not Applicable.
 
39





Table of Contents
 
Part II
 
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
The common stock of the Company is traded in the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “CZFC.” Trading volume in the Company’s common stock is light. As of March 23, 2012, there were approximately 765 beneficial owners of the Company’s common stock, including 141 shareholders of record and, to the best knowledge of the Company, approximately 624 beneficial owners whose shares are held by securities brokers-dealers or other nominees.
 
The following table shows the reported high and low sales on the NASDAQ Global Market price for the periods indicated:
 



2011 

  

High 

  

Low 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Fourth Quarter  

  

$ 

7.00 

  

$ 

6.09 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Third Quarter  

  

7.60 

  

6.35 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Second Quarter  

  

8.95 

  

7.15 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


First Quarter  

  

8.98 

  

7.25 

   








  
 



2010 

  

High 

  

Low 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Fourth Quarter  

  

$ 

7.70 

  

$ 

6.36 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Third Quarter  

  

7.50 

  

6.63 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Second Quarter  

  

7.64 

  

6.26 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


First Quarter  

  

7.10 

  

4.95 

   








  
 
No cash dividends were paid on common stock during 2011 and 2010. We last paid a cash dividend of $0.05 per share on our common stock in December of 2008. Dividends on common stock will be payable in the future at the discretion of the Board of Directors, subject to certain restrictions discussed below and in our financial statements.  Quarterly dividends are payable on our cumulative perpetual preferred stock, prior and in preference to the payment of dividends on our common stock, at an annual fixed rate of 6.5%.  Quarterly dividends are payable on our Series A preferred stock, prior and in
 
40





Table of Contents
 
preference to the payment of dividends on our common stock, and pari passu with the payment of dividends on our cumulative perpetual preferred stock, at an annual fixed rate of 5.0% through December 18, 2013 and at the rate of 9% thereafter. See Item 1, “Business — Supervision and Regulation” for additional information on dividend restrictions applicable to the Company and Citizens First Bank.
 
The following table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 2011, regarding Company compensation plans under which equity securities of the Company are authorized for issuance.
 
Equity Compensation Plan Information
 



Plan Category 

  

Number of   Securities   To be Issued Upon   Exercise of   Outstanding   Options,   Warrants and Rights   (a) 

  

Weighted-average   Exercise Price of   Outstanding   Options, Warrants   and Rights   (b) 

  

Number of Securities   Remaining Available   for   Future Issuance under   equity compensation   plans   (excluding securities   reflected in Column a)   (c) 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Equity compensation plans approved by security holders    

  

89,088 

  

$ 

15.21 

  

85,658 

   


Equity compensation plans not approved by security   holders  

  

0 

  

0.00 

  

0 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total 

  

89,088 

  

$ 

15.21 

  

85,658 

    
 
Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Not Applicable.
 
41





Table of Contents
 
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
The following discussion and analysis identifies significant factors that have affected our financial position and operating results during the periods included in the accompanying financial statements. We encourage you to read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with Item 8 “Financial Statements” as well as other information included in this Form 10-K.
 
Overview of 2011
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011, we reported net income of $2.6 million compared to a net income of $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Basic and diluted income per common share were $0.84 and $0.81, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to basic and diluted income per common share of $0.77 and $0.75, respectively, for 2010.
 
Significant developments for the year ended December 31, 2011 were:
 
·                              Net income increased $0.1 million, or $0.06 per diluted common share, from a net income of $2.5 million in the previous year to $2.6 million in 2011.
 
·                              Total assets increased $54.1 million, or 15.5%, to $403.8 million since the 2010 year-end, led by an increase in loans of $26.0 million.
 
·                              Net interest margin decreased slightly to 4.06% for 2011 compared to 4.08% for 2010 as the rates we paid on deposits and other borrowings declined as did the yield on earning assets.
 
·                              Provision expense for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2011 was $2.0 million, an increase of $450,000 from the provision expense of $1.6 million for the previous year.Net loan charge-offs were $1.2 million or 0.42% of average loans for 2011, compared with $562,000 or 0.21% of average loans for 2010.
 
·                              On September 30, 2011, the Bank completed its acquisition of a banking office in Bowling Green, KY from Republic Bank & Trust Company, a subsidiary of Republic Bancorp, Inc.  The Bank acquired approximately $33 million in deposits and $13 million in loans, as well as the real estate and other fixed assets.  The Bank paid a deposit premium of 6.51%, or approximately $2.1 million.  The acquisition of the branch was a strategic move to increase Citizens’ presence in its current market area without a significant increase in its operating costs.  The acquisition resulted in approximately $1.5 million of goodwill and $602,000 in core deposit intangible.
 
42





Table of Contents
 
Application of Critical Accounting Policies
 
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles and follow general practices within the financial services industry. The most significant accounting policies followed by the Company are presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies, along with the disclosures presented in the other financial statement notes and in this financial review, provide information on how significant assets and liabilities are valued in the financial statements and how those values are determined. Based on the valuation techniques used and the sensitivity of financial statement amounts to the methods, assumptions, and estimates underlying those amounts, management has identified the determination of the allowance for loan losses, the evaluation of our goodwill and other intangible assets, and our valuation of deferred tax assets to be the accounting areas that require the most subjective or complex judgments, and as such could be most subject to revision as new information becomes available.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses
 
The allowance for loan losses represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio. Determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses is considered a critical accounting estimate because it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates related to the amount and timing of expected future cash flows or underlying collateral values on impaired loans, estimated losses on loans based on historical loss experience, and consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of which may be susceptible to significant change. The loan portfolio also represents the largest asset type on the consolidated balance sheet. Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the methodology used to determine the allowance for loan losses, and a discussion of the factors driving changes in the amount of the allowance for loan losses is included under “Credit Quality and the Allowance for Loan Losses” below.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
 
Management is required to assess goodwill and other intangible assets annually for impairment or more often if certain factors are identified which could imply potential impairment. This assessment involves preparing analyses of market multiples for similar operations, and estimating the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill is allocated. If the analysis results in an estimate of fair value materially less than the carrying value we would be required to take a charge against earnings to write down the asset to the lower fair value. Based on management’s assessment completed with the help of an outside valuation firm, we believe our goodwill of $4.1 million and other identifiable intangibles of $1.3 million are not impaired and are properly recorded in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2011.
 
Valuation of Deferred Tax Asset
 
We evaluate deferred tax assets quarterly. We will realize this asset to the extent we are profitable or able to carry back tax losses to periods in which we paid income taxes.
 
43





Table of Contents
 
Our determination of the realization of the deferred tax asset will be based upon management’s judgment of various future events and uncertainties, including the timing and amount of future income we will earn and the implementation of various tax planning strategies to maximize realization of the deferred tax assets.  Management believes we will generate sufficient operating earnings to realize the deferred tax asset.  Examinations of our income tax returns or changes in tax law may impact the tax liabilities and resulting provisions for income taxes.
 
Results of Operations
 
Net Interest Income
 
Net interest income, our principal source of earnings, is the difference between the interest income generated by earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the total interest cost of the deposits and borrowings obtained to fund these assets. Factors that influence the level of net interest income include the volume of earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, yields earned and rates paid, the level of non-performing loans and non-earning assets, and the amount of non-interest bearing deposits supporting earning assets.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011, net interest income was $13.3 million, an increase of $794,000 or 6.3%, over net interest income of $12.5 million in 2010. The net interest margin in 2011 was 4.06%, compared to 4.08% in 2010. This decrease of two basis points in the net interest margin resulted from a reduction both in interest income and in interest expense. The prime rate remained stable throughout 2011 and 2010 at 3.25%.
 
Net Interest Analysis Summary
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Average yield on interest earning assets  

  

5.30 

% 

5.68 

%  


Average rate on interest bearing liabilities  

  

1.44 

% 

1.87 

%  


Net interest spread  

  

3.86 

% 

3.81 

%  


Net interest margin  

  

4.06 

% 

4.08 

%   
 
Our average interest-earning assets were $336.8 million for 2011, compared with $316.1 million for 2010, a 6.5% increase primarily attributable to an increase in outstanding loans. Average loans were $274.1 million for 2011, compared with $266.7 million for 2010, a 2.8% increase. Our total interest income decreased 0.6% to $17.9 million for 2011, compared with $18.0 million for 2010. The change was due primarily to increased interest-earning assets of $20.9 million with a 38 basis point decrease in yield.
 
44





Table of Contents
 
Our average interest-bearing liabilities increased by 7.1% to $290.8 million for 2011, compared with $271.5 million for 2010. Our total interest expense decreased 17.6% to $4.2 million for 2011, compared with $5.1 million during 2010.  The change was due primarily to a decrease in the rates of time deposits. Our average volume of time deposits decreased 2.2% to $179.5 million for 2011, compared with $183.5 million for 2010. The average interest rate paid on time deposits decreased to 1.88% for 2011, compared with 2.37% for 2010.  The cost of funds in total decreased from 1.87% in 2010 to 1.44% in 2011. The decrease in cost of funds was the result of the continued repricing of certificates of deposit at maturity at lower interest rates, and decreased rates on FHLB advances.
 
The following table sets forth for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 information regarding average balances of assets and liabilities as well as the amounts of interest income from average interest-earning assets and interest expense on average interest-bearing liabilities and average yields and costs.  We have calculated the yields and costs for the periods indicated by dividing income or expense by the average balances of assets or liabilities, respectively, for the periods presented.
 
45





Table of Contents
 
Average Consolidated Balance Sheets and Net Interest Analysis(Dollars in thousands) Year Ended December 31,
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

Average   Balance 

  

Income/   Expense 

  

Average   Rate 

  

Average   Balance 

  

Income/   Expense 

  

Average   Rate 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest-earning assets: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Federal funds sold and other  

  

$ 

16,980 

  

$ 

46 

  

0.27 

% 

$ 

7,250 

  

$ 

22 

  

0.30 

%  


Available-for-sale securities: (1) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Taxable  

  

24,902 

  

605 

  

2.43 

% 

21,380 

  

605 

  

2.83 

%  


Nontaxable(1)  

  

18,814 

  

1,095 

  

5.82 

% 

18,701 

  

1,107 

  

5.92 

%  


FHLB stock  

  

2,025 

  

86 

  

4.25 

% 

2,025 

  

89 

  

4.37 

%  


Loans receivable (2)  

  

274,108 

  

16,020 

  

5.84 

% 

266,708 

  

16,138 

  

6.05 

%  


Total interest-earning   assets 

  

336,829 

  

17,852 

  

5.30 

% 

316,064 

  

17,961 

  

5.68 

%  


Non-interest earning assets  

  

32,442 

  

  

  

  

  

32,245 

  

  

  

  

   


Total assets 

  

$ 

369,271 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

348,309 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest-bearing liabilities: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest-bearing transaction accounts  

  

$ 

57,573 

  

202 

  

.35 

% 

$ 

47,708 

  

202 

  

.42 

%  


Savings accounts  

  

32,222 

  

183 

  

.57 

% 

25,470 

  

169 

  

.66 

%  


Time deposits  

  

179,515 

  

3,372 

  

1.88 

% 

183,524 

  

4,343 

  

2.37 

%  


Total interest-bearing deposits 

  

269,310 

  

3,757 

  

1.40 

% 

256,702 

  

4,714 

  

1.84 

%  


Borrowed Funds  

  

16,479 

  

322 

  

1.95 

% 

9,825 

  

258 

  

2.63 

%  


Subordinated debentures  

  

5,000 

  

99 

  

1.98 

% 

5,000 

  

101 

  

2.02 

%  


Total interest-bearing liabilities 

  

290,789 

  

4,178 

  

1.44 

% 

271,527 

  

5,073 

  

1.87 

%  


Non-interest bearing liabilities: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Non-interest bearing   deposits  

  

38,435 

  

  

  

  

  

36,805 

  

  

  

  

   


Other liabilities 

  

1,922 

  

  

  

  

  

1,876 

  

  

  

  

   


Total liabilities 

  

331,146 

  

  

  

  

  

310,208 

  

  

  

  

   


Shareholders’ equity 

  

38,125 

  

  

  

  

  

38,101 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total liabilities and shareholders’   equity 

  

$ 

369,271 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

348,309 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net interest income 

  

  

  

$ 

13,674 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

12,888 

  

  

   


Net interest spread (1) 

  

  

  

  

  

3.86 

% 

  

  

  

  

3.81 

%  


Net interest margin (1) (3) 

  

  

  

  

  

4.06 

% 

  

  

  

  

4.08 

%  


Return on average assets ratio 

  

  

  

  

  

.71 

% 

  

  

  

  

.73 

%  


Return on average equity ratio 

  

  

  

  

  

6.84 

% 

  

  

  

  

6.66 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Equity to assets ratio 

  

  

  

  

  

10.32 

% 

  

  

  

  

10.95 

%   
 
46





Table of Contents
 

(1)         Income and yield stated at a tax equivalent basis for nontaxable securities using the marginal corporate Federal tax rate of 34.0%.
 
(2)         Average loans include nonperforming loans. Interest income includes interest and fees on loans, but does not include interest on loans 90 days or more past due.
 
(3)         Net interest income as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.
 
Rate/Volume Analysis
 
Net interest income can be analyzed in terms of the impact of changing interest rates and changing volumes.  The following table sets forth the effect which the varying levels of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities and the applicable rates have had on changes in net interest income for the periods presented. Changes in rate-volume are proportionately allocated between rate and volume variances.
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

Twelve Months Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 Vs. 2010 

   


  

  

Increase (Decrease) Due to 

  

  

   


  

  

Rate 

  

Volume 

  

Net 

   


Interest-earning assets: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Federal funds sold  

  

$ 

(6 

) 

$ 

30 

  

$ 

24 

   


Available-for-sale-securities: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Taxable  

  

(100 

) 

100 

  

0 

   


Nontaxable (1)  

  

(19 

) 

7 

  

(12 

)  


FHLB stock  

  

(3 

) 

0 

  

(3 

)  


Loans, net  

  

(566 

) 

448 

  

(118 

)  


Total net change in income on   interest-earning assets 

  

(694 

) 

585 

  

(109 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest-bearing liabilities: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest-bearing transaction accounts  

  

(42 

) 

42 

  

0 

   


Savings accounts  

  

(31 

) 

45 

  

14 

   


Time deposits  

  

(876 

) 

(95 

) 

(971 

)  


Federal funds purchased  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


FHLB borrowings  

  

(111 

) 

175 

  

64 

   


Notes payable  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Subordinated debentures  

  

(2 

) 

— 

  

(2 

)  


Total net change in expense on   interest-bearing liabilities 

  

(1,062 

) 

167 

  

(895 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net change in net   interest income 

  

$ 

368 

  

$ 

418 

  

$ 

786 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Percentage change 

  

46.92 

% 

53.08 

% 

100.0 

%   
 

(1)    Income stated at a fully tax equivalent basis using the marginal corporate Federal tax rate of 34.0%.
 
Provision for Loan Losses
 
The provision for loan losses for 2011 was $2.0 million, or 0.74% of average loans, compared to a provision of $1.6 million, or 0.59% of average loans during 2010. We had net charge-offs totaling $1.2 million during 2011, compared to $562,000 during 2010. The increase in the provision for loan losses during 2011 was due to the increase in net charge-offs and the increase in non-performing assets.
 
47





Table of Contents
 
Non-interest Income
 
Non-interest income totaled $3.1 million in 2011, compared to $2.9 million in 2010, an increase of $223,000, or 7.8%.  The Company had $215,000 in gains on the sale of available-for-sale securities for 2011 compared to no gains recognized in 2010.  Service charges on deposit accounts decreased $152,000 during 2011, while private banking fees increased by $40,000 during 2011. The following table shows the detailed components of non-interest income:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

Increase 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

(Decrease) 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Service charges on deposit accounts  

  

$ 

1,390 

  

$ 

1,542 

  

$ 

(152 

)  


Other non-interest income  

  

472 

  

433 

  

39 

   


Gain on the sale of mortgage loans held for sale  

  

315 

  

314 

  

1 

   


BOLI income  

  

273 

  

291 

  

(18 

)  


Private banking income  

  

171 

  

131 

  

40 

   


Gain on the sale of available-for-sale securities  

  

215 

  

— 

  

215 

   


Lease income  

  

261 

  

163 

  

98 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

$ 

3,097 

  

$ 

2,874 

  

$ 

223 

    
 
Non-interest Expense
 
Non-interest expense increased 4.1%, or $429,000, from $10.5 million in 2010 to $11.0 million in 2011. Salaries and employee benefits increased $466,000 in 2011 as compared to 2010, due to an increase in the number of full time equivalent employees. Equipment expense decreased $82,000 in 2011 as compared to 2010.  Professional and legal expenses increased $87,000 due to expense related to the acquisition of a branch in 2011. FDIC insurance expense decreased $199,000 in 2011 due to changes in the FDIC insurance premium assessment calculations.
 
48





Table of Contents
 
The increases and decreases in expense in 2011 by major categories are as follows:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

Increase 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

(Decrease) 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Salaries and employee benefits  

  

$ 

5,102 

  

$ 

4,636 

  

$ 

466 

   


Net occupancy expense  

  

1,857 

  

1,930 

  

(73 

)  


Advertising and public relations  

  

362 

  

281 

  

81 

   


Professional and legal  

  

629 

  

542 

  

87 

   


Data processing services  

  

744 

  

737 

  

7 

   


FDIC insurance  

  

271 

  

470 

  

(199 

)  


Franchise shares and deposit tax  

  

464 

  

458 

  

6 

   


Postage and office supplies  

  

164 

  

167 

  

(3 

)  


Telephone and other communications  

  

161 

  

179 

  

(18 

)  


Other real estate owned expenses  

  

215 

  

236 

  

(21 

)  


Core deposit amortization  

  

285 

  

264 

  

21 

   


Other  

  

707 

  

632 

  

75 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total 

  

$ 

10,961 

  

$ 

10,532 

  

$ 

429 

    
 
Income Taxes
 
Income tax expense was calculated using the Company’s expected effective rate for 2011 and 2010.  We have recognized deferred tax liabilities and assets to show the tax effects of differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities.  Our statutory federal tax rate was 34.0% in both 2011 and 2010.  The effective tax rate for 2011 was 23.6%, compared to 22.5% for 2010.  The difference between the statutory and effective rates are impacted by such factors as income from tax-exempt loans, tax-exempt income on state and municipal securities, and income on bank owned life insurance.
 
Balance Sheet Review
 
Our assets at year end 2011 totaled $403.8 million, compared with $349.7 million at December 31, 2010, an increase of $54.1 million, or 15.5%.  Average interest earning assets increased 6.6% or $20.8 million in 2011, from $316.0 million in 2010 to $336.8 million in 2011.  Assets increased primarily due to the acquisition of a banking center in Bowling Green, Kentucky from Republic Bank & Trust Company.
 
Loans
 
Total loans averaged $274.1 million in 2011, compared to $266.7 million in 2010.  At year-end 2011, loans totaled $294.4 million, compared to $268.3 million at year-end 2010, an increase of $26.1 million, or 9.7%. We experienced declines in the commercial and consumer segments of our loan portfolio, while enjoying increases in the commercial real estate and residential real estate segments.  The following table presents a summary of the loan portfolio by category:
 
49





Table of Contents
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

December 31, 2011 

  

December 31, 2010 

   


  

  

  

  

% of   Total   Loans 

  

  

  

% of   Total   Loans 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial and agricultural 

  

$ 

58,853 

  

19.99 

% 

$ 

66,124 

  

24.65 

%  


Commercial real estate 

  

144,020 

  

48.93 

% 

116,991 

  

43.60 

%  


Residential real estate 

  

83,486 

  

28.36 

% 

75,514 

  

28.14 

%  


Consumer 

  

7,993 

  

2.72 

% 

9,674 

  

3.61 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

$ 

294,352 

  

100.00 

% 

$ 

268,303 

  

100.00 

%   
 
Our commercial real estate loans include financing for industrial developments, residential developments, retail shopping centers, industrial buildings, restaurants, and hotels.  The percentage distribution of our loans by industry as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is shown in the following table:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Agriculture, forestry, and fishing  

  

13.63 

% 

13.16 

%  


Mining  

  

0.02 

% 

0.07 

%  


Construction  

  

6.89 

% 

3.37 

%  


Manufacturing  

  

4.20 

% 

4.75 

%  


Transportation, communication, electric, gas, and   sanitary services  

  

2.64 

% 

4.35 

%  


Wholesale trade  

  

0.81 

% 

1.23 

%  


Retail trade  

  

7.75 

% 

11.96 

%  


Finance, insurance, and real estate  

  

16.38 

% 

13.21 

%  


Services  

  

15.66 

% 

15.45 

%  


Public administration  

  

0.99 

% 

0.76 

%  


Total commercial and commercial real estate  

  

68.97 

% 

68.31 

%  


Residential real estate loans  

  

28.36 

% 

28.12 

%  


Other consumer loans  

  

2.67 

% 

3.57 

%  


Total loans  

  

100.00 

% 

100.00 

%   
 
The majority of our loans are to customers located in the Kentucky counties of Barren, Hart, Simpson and Warren.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s 20 largest credit relationships consisted of loans and loan commitments ranging from $2.5 million to $6.2 million.  The aggregate amount of these credit relationships was $63.4 million, with total commitments of $72.7 million.
 
Our lending activities are subject to a variety of lending limits imposed by state and federal law. Citizens First Bank’s secured legal lending limit to a single borrower was approximately $12.5 million at December 31, 2011.
 
50





Table of Contents
 
As of December 31, 2011, we had $16.3 million of participations in loans purchased from, and $13.9 million of participations in loans sold to, other banks.  As of December 31, 2010, we had $14.9 million of participations in loans purchased from, and $20.1 million of participations in loans sold to, other banks.
 
The following table sets forth the maturity distribution of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011.  Maturities are based upon contractual terms.  Our policy is to specifically review and approve all loans renewed; loans are not automatically rolled over.
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


Loan Maturities   as of December 31, 2011 

  

Within One   Year 

  

After One   but Within   Five Years 

  

After Five   Years 

  

Total 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial and agricultural  

  

$ 

33,778 

  

$ 

21,855 

  

$ 

3,220 

  

$ 

58,853 

   


Commercial real estate  

  

19,608 

  

82,444 

  

41,968 

  

144,020 

   


Residential real estate  

  

4,932 

  

26,933 

  

51,621 

  

83,486 

   


Consumer  

  

2,002 

  

5,763 

  

228 

  

7,993 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total  

  

$ 

60,320 

  

$ 

136,995 

  

$ 

97,037 

  

$ 

294,352 

    
 
The table below presents loans outstanding as of December 31, 2011 with maturities greater than one year categorized by fixed and variable interest rates:
 



As of December 31, 2011 

  

(Dollars in   Thousands) 

   


  

  

  

   


Fixed Rate  

  

$ 

133,930 

   


Variable Rate  

  

100,102 

   


  

  

  

   


Total maturities greater than one year 

  

$ 

234,032 

    
 
Asset and Liability Management
 
We manage our assets and liabilities to provide a consistent level of liquidity to accommodate normal fluctuations in loans and deposits. The yield on approximately 46.1% of our earning assets as of December 31, 2011, adjusts simultaneously with changes in an external index, primarily the highest prime rate as quoted in the Wall Street Journal. A majority of our interest bearing liabilities have been issued with fixed terms and can only be repriced at maturity. The prime rate remained stable at 3.25% during 2011 and 2010.  The yield on our earning assets declined during 2011 as we were not able to reinvest at the yields previously earned on called and matured investments. The cost of our interest bearing liabilities continued to decline in 2011, which allowed the net interest margin to only decline slightly from the prior year end.  If interest rates stabilize for a period of time, the difference between interest earning
 
51





Table of Contents
 
assets and interest bearing liabilities will tend to stabilize. In a stable rate environment, our net interest margin will be impacted by, among other factors, a change in the mix of earning assets, with our deposit growth being invested in federal funds sold, investment securities or loans.
 
Credit Quality and the Allowance for Loan Losses
 
We consider credit quality to be of primary importance. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Bank contracted with a third party CPA firm to outsource the Bank’s loan review function, beginning in the first quarter of 2010. The firm specializes in providing bank consulting and accounting services to financial institutions, focusing on the loan review function. The scope of the engagement calls for annual review of large loan relationships (in excess of $1 million), problem credits, unsecured loans, insider relationships, a random sample of smaller commercial credits, and a review of consumer credit underwriting, with annual coverage of at least 60% of the average dollar value of the outstanding commercial loan portfolio. The focus of the reviews is centered in the commercial and commercial real estate portfolios, as they comprise the majority of the Bank’s loan portfolio. Management addresses any findings raised during the loan review and takes appropriate actions as warranted.
 
Loans that exhibit probable or observed credit weaknesses are subject to individual review. Where appropriate, allocations for individual loans are included in the allowance calculation based on management’s estimate of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan given the availability of collateral, other sources of cash flow and legal options available to the Company. Included in the review of individual loans are those that are impaired as provided in ASC Topic 310 “Receivables”. We evaluate the collectability of both principal and interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual. Historical loss rates are applied to other loans not subject to individual allocations. These historical loss rates may be adjusted for significant factors that, in management’s judgment, reflect the impact of any current conditions on loss recognition. Factors which management considers in the analysis include the effects of the national and local economies, trends in the nature and volume of loans (delinquencies, charge-offs and nonaccrual loans), changes in mix, asset quality trends, risk management and loan administration, changes in internal lending policies and credit standards, and examination results from bank regulatory agencies and loan review.
 
We maintain a modest unallocated amount in the allowance to recognize the imprecision in estimating and measuring losses when evaluating allocations for individual loans or pools of loans. Allocations on individual loans and historical loss rates are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on changing borrower and/or collateral conditions and actual collection and charge-off experience.
 
The allowance for loan losses represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio. Determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses is considered a critical accounting estimate because it requires significant judgment and the use of estimates related to the amount and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on loans based on historical loss
 
52





Table of Contents
 
experience, and consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of which may be susceptible to significant change.
 
The allowance for loan losses is established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense.  At December 31, 2011, the allowance was $5.9 million, compared to $5.0 million at the end of 2010. The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to total loans (excluding mortgage loans held for sale) at December 31, 2011 was 1.99%, compared to 1.86% at December 31, 2010. The following table sets forth an analysis of our allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance at beginning of year  

  

$ 

5,001 

  

$ 

3,988 

   


Provision for loan losses  

  

2,025 

  

1,575 

   


Amounts charged off:  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

512 

  

149 

   


Commercial real estate  

  

523 

  

265 

   


Residential real estate  

  

302 

  

357 

   


Consumer  

  

95 

  

68 

   


Total loans charged off  

  

1,432 

  

839 

   


Recoveries of amounts previously charged off:  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

218 

  

233 

   


Commercial real estate  

  

— 

  

6 

   


Residential real estate  

  

38 

  

25 

   


Consumer  

  

15 

  

13 

   


Total recoveries  

  

271 

  

277 

   


Net charge-offs  

  

1,161 

  

562 

   


Balance at end of year  

  

$ 

5,865 

  

$ 

5,001 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Total loans, net of unearned income:  

  

  

  

  

   


Average  

  

$ 

274,102 

  

$ 

266,708 

   


At December 31  

  

$ 

294,352 

  

$ 

268,303 

   


As a percentage of average loans:  

  

  

  

  

   


Net charge-offs 

  

0.42 

% 

0.21 

%  


Provision for loan losses  

  

0.74 

% 

0.59 

%   
 
The provision to the allowance for loan losses is based on management’s and the loan committee’s ongoing review and evaluation of the loan portfolio and general economic conditions on a monthly basis, and reviewed by the full board of directors on a quarterly basis. Management bases its review and evaluation of the allowance for loan losses on an analysis of historical trends, significant problem loans, current market value of real estate or collateral and certain economic and other factors affecting loans and real estate or collateral securing these loans.  Loans are charged off when, in the opinion of
 
53





Table of Contents
 
management, they are deemed to be uncollectible. We charge recognized losses against the allowance and add subsequent recoveries to the allowance. While management uses the best information available to make evaluations, future adjustments to the allowance may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the evaluation. The allowance for loan losses is subject to periodic evaluation by various regulatory authorities and may be subject to adjustment based upon information that is available to them at the time of their examination.
 
In 2011, our net charge-offs increased to $1.2 million from $562,000 in 2010. We had net charge-offs of $523,000 in commercial real estate, primarily related to $495,000 in net charge-offs to two customers, as well as $294,000 in commercial net charge-offs and $264,000 in residential real estate net charge-offs.
 
The following table sets forth the breakdown of the allowance for loan losses by loan category at the dates indicated.
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

December 31, 2011 

  

December 31, 2010 

   


  

  

Amount 

  

% of   Loans   in Each   Category   to Total   Loans 

  

Amount 

  

% of   Loans   in Each   Category   to Total   Loans 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Residential real estate loans  

  

$ 

858 

  

28.36 

% 

$ 

605 

  

28.14 

%  


Consumer and other loans  

  

81 

  

2.72 

% 

200 

  

3.61 

%  


Commercial and agricultural  

  

2,667 

  

19.99 

% 

3,211 

  

24.65 

%  


Commercial real estate  

  

1,986 

  

48.93 

% 

902 

  

43.60 

%  


Unallocated  

  

273 

  

0.00 

% 

83 

  

0.00 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total allowance for loan   losses 

  

$ 

5,865 

  

100.00 

% 

$ 

5,001 

  

100.00 

%   
 
We believe that the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2011, provides for probable incurred credit losses in the loan portfolio as of that date. That determination is based on the best information available to management, but necessarily involves uncertainties and matters of judgment and, therefore, cannot be determined with precision and could be susceptible to significant change in the future. In addition, bank regulatory authorities, as a part of their periodic examinations, may reach different conclusions regarding the quality of the loan portfolio and the level of the allowance, which could require us to make additional provisions in the future.
 
54





Table of Contents
 
The following table sets forth selected asset quality ratios for the periods indicated:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

December 31,   2011 

  

December 31,   2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Non-performing loans  

  

$ 

4,264 

  

$ 

1,264 

   


Non-performing assets  

  

4,901 

  

2,632 

   


Allowance for loan losses  

  

5,865 

  

5,001 

   


Non-performing assets to total assets  

  

1.22 

% 

0.75 

%  


Net charge-offs to average total loans  

  

0.42 

% 

0.21 

%  


Allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans  

  

137.54 

% 

395.96 

%  


Allowance for loan losses to total loans  

  

1.99 

% 

1.86 

%  








  
 
Non-performing loans are defined as non-accrual loans, loans accruing but past due 90 days or more, and non-current restructured loans. Non-performing assets are defined as non-performing loans, other real estate owned, and repossessed assets. The non-performing loan total at year-end 2011 consisted of 32 non-accrual loans totaling $4.3 million, and five loans over 90 days past due with balances less than $1,000. Loans over 90 days past due which are still accruing either have adequate collateral or a definite repayment plan in place. Non-performing assets also includes other real estate owned of two commercial properties totaling $493,000 and one residential property and one building lot totaling $144,000.
 
Management classifies commercial and commercial real estate loans as non-accrual when principal or interest is past due 90 days or more and the loan is not adequately collateralized and is in the process of collection, or when, in the opinion of management, principal or interest is not likely to be paid in accordance with the terms of the obligation. We charge off consumer loans after 120 days of delinquency unless they are adequately secured and in the process of collection. Non-accrual loans are not reclassified as accruing until principal and interest payments are brought current and future payments appear reasonably certain.
 
Troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) are modified loans in which a concession is provided to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Loan modifications are considered TDRs when the concession provided is not available to the borrower through either normal channels or other sources. However, not all loan modifications are TDRs. Our standards relating to loan modifications consider, among other factors, minimum verified income requirements, cash flow analysis, and collateral valuations. However, each potential loan modification is reviewed individually and the terms of the loan are modified to meet a borrower’s specific circumstances at a point in time. TDRs can be classified as either accrual or nonaccrual loans. Non-accrual TDRs are included in non-accrual loans whereas accruing TDRs are excluded because the borrower remains contractually current.
 
55





Table of Contents
 
We reported total troubled debt restructurings of $2.9 million and $1.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, three notes totaling $942,000 were no longer accruing, and two notes totaling $1.9 million were current and accruing. One $92,000 TDR note was over 90 days delinquent but was to begin making payments under an agreed order. We have no commitments to lend additional amounts as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 to customers with outstanding loans that are classified as troubled debt restructurings.
 
Generally, we do not include loans that are current as to principal and interest in our non-performing assets categories. However, we will still classify a current loan as a potential problem loan if we develop doubts about the borrower’s future performance under the terms of the loan contract. We categorize loans into risk categories based on relevant information about the ability of borrowers to service their debt such as: current financial information, historical payment experience, credit documentation, public information, and current economic trends, among other factors. We analyze loans individually by classifying the loans as to credit risk.  This analysis includes commercial and commercial real estate loans with an outstanding balance greater than $25 thousand and is reviewed on a monthly basis. For residential real estate and consumer loans the analysis primarily involves monitoring the past due status of these loans and at such time that these loans are past due, the Company evaluates the loans to determine if a change in risk category is warranted. We use the following definitions for risk ratings:
 
Special Mention. Loans classified as special mention have a potential weakness that deserves management’s close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects for the loan or of the institution’s credit position at some future date.
 
Substandard. Loans classified as substandard are inadequately protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. Loans so classified have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the institution will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected.
 
Doubtful. Loans classified as doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in those classified as substandard, with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, highly questionable and improbable.
 
Loans not meeting the criteria above that are analyzed individually as part of the above described process are considered to be Pass rated loans.  All loans in all loan categories are assigned risk ratings. As of December 31, 2011, and based on the most recent analysis performed, the risk category of loans by class of loans is as follows:
 
56





Table of Contents
 



  

  

Pass 

  

Special   Mention 

  

Substandard 

  

Doubtful 

  

Total 

   


December 31,   2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

$ 

54,021 

  

$ 

50 

  

$ 

4,699 

  

$ 

83 

  

$ 

58,853 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

13,720 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

13,720 

   


Other  

  

117,798 

  

2,849 

  

8,955 

  

698 

  

130,300 

   


Residential real estate  

  

82,248 

  

— 

  

975 

  

263 

  

83,486 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

3,993 

  

— 

  

— 

  

5 

  

3,998 

   


Other  

  

3,994 

  

— 

  

1 

  

— 

  

3,995 

   


Total  

  

$ 

275,774 

  

$ 

2,899 

  

$ 

14,630 

  

$ 

1,049 

  

$ 

294,352 

    
 
Securities
 
Our securities portfolio serves as a source of liquidity and earnings and contributes to the management of interest rate risk. Our portfolio also provides us with securities to pledge as required collateral for certain governmental deposits and borrowed funds.
 
The investment securities portfolio is comprised primarily of U.S. Government agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, and tax-exempt securities of state and political subdivisions.  Securities are all classified as available-for-sale. The investment portfolio increased by $11.2 million, or 28.3%, to $50.7 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $39.5 million at December 31, 2010. New investments were purchased in 2011 to utilize fed fund sold balances as loan growth was slow in the first portion of the year.
 
The table below presents the carrying value of securities by major category:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

December 31,   2011 

  

December 31,   2010 

   


U.S. Treasury and U.S. Government agencies  

  

$ 

11,569 

  

$ 

6,516 

   


Agency mortgage backed securities-residential  

  

18,635 

  

13,704 

   


Municipal securities  

  

19,514 

  

18,411 

   


Other securities  

  

1,000 

  

900 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Total available-for-sale   securities 

  

$ 

50,718 

  

$ 

39,531 

    
 
The table below presents the maturities and yield characteristics of securities as of December 31, 2011. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
 
57





Table of Contents
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


December 31, 2011 

  

One Year   or Less 

  

Over   One Year   Through   Five Years 

  

Over   Five Years   Through   Ten Years 

  

Over   Ten Years 

  

Total   Maturities 

  

Fair   Value 

   


U.S. Government agencies  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

5,542 

  

$ 

2,014 

  

$ 

3,999 

  

$ 

11,555 

  

$ 

11,569 

   


Agency mortgage-backed securities: (1)  

  

109 

  

18,228 

  

— 

  

— 

  

18,337 

  

18,635 

   


Municipal securities  

  

520 

  

2,804 

  

8,107 

  

6,959 

  

18,390 

  

19,514 

   


Other Securities  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,865 

  

1,865 

  

1.000 

   


Total available-for-sale   securities  

  

$ 

629 

  

$ 

26,574 

  

$ 

10,121 

  

$ 

12,823 

  

$ 

50,147 

  

$ 

50,718 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Percent of total  

  

1.2 

% 

53.0 

% 

20.2 

% 

25.6 

% 

100.0 

% 

  

   


Weighted average yield(2)  

  

5.20 

% 

4.40 

% 

2.50 

% 

4.35 

% 

3.41 

% 

  

    
 

(1)    Agency mortgage backed securities (residential) are grouped into average lives based on December 2011 prepayment projections.
 
(2)    The weighted average yields are based on amortized cost and municipal securities are calculated on a full tax-equivalent basis.
 
Other securities consist of one single issue trust preferred security which has experienced a decline in fair value due to inactivity in the market.  No impairment charge is being taken as no loss of principal is anticipated and all principal and interest payments are being received as scheduled.  All rated securities are investment grade.  For those that are not rated, the financial condition has been evaluated and no adverse conditions were identified related to repayment.  Declines in fair value are a function of rate changes in the market and market illiquidity.  The Company does not intend to sell these securities and does not believe it will be required to sell these securities.
 
Deferred Tax Assets
 
We have a net deferred tax asset of $3.0 million at December 31, 2011.  We evaluate this asset on a quarterly basis.  To the extent we believe it is more likely than not that it will not be utilized, we will establish a valuation allowance to reduce its carrying amount to the amount it expects to be realized.  At December 31, 2011, no valuation allowance has been established against the outstanding deferred tax asset.  The deferred tax asset will be utilized as taxable income is generated in future years.
 
Deposits
 
We offer traditional deposit products, including non-interest-bearing and interest-bearing checking (or NOW accounts), commercial checking, money market accounts, savings accounts and certificates of deposit.  We compete for deposits through our branch network with competitive pricing and advertising.
 
Total deposits averaged $307.7 million during 2011, an increase of $14.2 million, or 4.8%, compared to $293.5 million during 2010.  Average deposits increased during the year, but the cost of funds declined as higher cost deposits matured and were renewed at lower rates. Deposits at December 31, 2011 totaled $332.7 million, an increase of $44 million, or 15.2%, from $288.7 million at December 31, 2010.
 
58





Table of Contents
 
We utilize brokered certificates of deposit and will continue to utilize these sources for deposits when they can be cost-effective.  We have also implemented the use of a deposit listing service and have utilized this service to replace brokered deposits which matured during 2010.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, brokered deposits totaled $6.1 million and $19.2 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, these brokered deposits constituted approximately 1.8% and 6.6% of our total deposits, respectively.
 
Time deposits of $100,000 or more totaled $59.4 million at December 31, 2011, compared to $66.3 million at December 31, 2010.  Interest expense on time deposits of $100,000 or more was $1.5 million in 2011, compared to $2.0 million in 2010.  A summary of average balances and rates paid on deposits for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 follows.
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

Average 

  

Average 

  

Average 

  

Average 

   


  

  

Balance 

  

Rate 

  

Balance 

  

Rate 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Noninterest bearing demand  

  

$ 

38,435 

  

0.00 

% 

$ 

36,805 

  

0.00 

%  


Interest bearing demand  

  

57,573 

  

0.35 

% 

47,708 

  

0.42 

%  


Savings  

  

32,222 

  

0.57 

% 

25,470 

  

0.66 

%  


Time  

  

179,515 

  

1.88 

% 

183,524 

  

2.37 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

$ 

307,745 

  

1.22 

% 

$ 

293,507 

  

1.61 

%   
 
The following table shows the maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more as of December 31, 2011:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

December 31, 2011 

   


  

  

  

   


Three months or less  

  

$ 

7,922 

   


Over three through six months  

  

8,580 

   


Over six through twelve months  

  

27,346 

   


Over one year through three years  

  

10,730 

   


Over three years through five years  

  

4,816 

   


Over five years  

  

— 

   


  

  

  

   


Total 

  

$ 

59,394 

    
 
Liquidity, Other Borrowings, and Capital Resources
 
Borrowings
 
FHLB Advances. We obtain advances from the Federal Home Bank of Cincinnati (FHLB) for funding and liability management.  These advances are collateralized by a blanket agreement of eligible 1-4 family residential mortgage loans and eligible
 
59





Table of Contents
 
commercial real estate.  Rates vary based on the term to repayment, and are summarized below as of December 31, 2011:
 



  

  

  

  

  

  

(Dollars in   Thousands) 

   


Type 

  

Maturity 

  

Rate 

  

Amount 

   


Fixed 

  

June 22, 2012 

  

0.26 

% 

5,000 

   


Fixed 

  

August 22,   2012 

  

1.09 

% 

2,000 

   


Fixed 

  

August 28,   2012 

  

4.25 

% 

500 

   


Fixed 

  

December 10,   2012 

  

0.85 

% 

2,000 

   


Fixed 

  

December 24,   2012 

  

3.36 

% 

2,000 

   


Fixed 

  

October 15,   2013 

  

0.81 

% 

2,500 

   


Fixed 

  

December 10,   2014 

  

1.73 

% 

2,000 

   


Fixed 

  

December 24,   2014 

  

3.46 

% 

2,000 

   


Fixed 

  

February 25,   2015 

  

2.85 

% 

2,000 

   


Fixed 

  

December 2,   2015 

  

1.14 

% 

5,000 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

25,000 

   









  
 
At December 31, 2011, we had available collateral to borrow an additional $32.9 million from the FHLB.
 
At December 31, 2011, we had established Federal Funds lines of credit totaling $18.8 million with three correspondent banks.  No amounts were drawn as of December 31, 2011 or 2010.
 
Repurchase agreements mature in one business day.  The rate paid on these accounts is variable at our discretion and is based on a tiered balance calculation.
 
We issued $5.0 million in subordinated debentures in October, 2006.  These subordinated debentures bear an interest rate, which reprices each calendar quarter, of 165 basis points over 3-month LIBOR (London Inter Bank Offering Rate).  The rate as of December 31, 2011 was 2.021%, and at December 31, 2010 was 1.94%.
 
Information regarding our borrowings as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is presented below:
 
60





Table of Contents
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Borrowed funds:  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance at year end  

  

$ 

25,000 

  

$ 

15,712 

   


Weighted average rate at year end  

  

1.51 

% 

2.01 

%  


Average balance during the year  

  

$ 

16,479 

  

$ 

9,825 

   


Weighted average rate during the year  

  

1.95 

% 

2.62 

%  


Maximum month-end balance  

  

$ 

25,000 

  

$ 

16,269 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Subordinated debentures: 

  

  

  

  

   


Balance at year end  

  

$ 

5,000 

  

$ 

5,000 

   


Weighted average rate at year end  

  

2.02 

% 

1.94 

%  


Average balance during the year  

  

$ 

5,000 

  

$ 

5,000 

   


Weighted average rate during the year  

  

1.98 

% 

2.02 

%  


Maximum month-end balance  

  

$ 

5,000 

  

$ 

5,000 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Total borrowings:  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance at year end  

  

$ 

30,000 

  

$ 

20,712 

   


Weighted average rate at year end  

  

1.60 

% 

1.90 

%  


Average balance during the year  

  

$ 

21,479 

  

$ 

14,825 

   


Weighted average rate during the year  

  

1.96 

% 

2.42 

%  


Maximum month-end balance  

  

$ 

30,000 

  

$ 

21,269 

    
 
Capital
 
Stockholders’ equity was $38.9 million on December 31, 2011, an increase of $600 thousand, or 1.6%, from $38.3 million on December 31, 2010.  Retained earnings increased due to our increase in net income less the payment of preferred dividends. No common dividends were paid during 2011.  In February, 2011 we repurchased 25% of the Series A preferred stock issued under the Capital Purchase Program, which reduced stockholder’s equity by $2.2 million.
 
We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken could have a material effect on our financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, we must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of our assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under the regulatory accounting practices. Our capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.
 
61





Table of Contents
 
Under quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy, we are required to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and to total assets.  We believe we met all capital adequacy requirements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
Our capital ratios as of December 31, 2011, and 2010 (calculated in accordance with regulatory guidelines) were as follows:
 



  

  

December 31,   2011 

  

December 31,   2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Tier 1 leverage ratio 

  

9.46 

% 

10.98 

%  


Regulatory minimum  

  

4.00 

% 

4.00 

%  


“Well-capitalized” minimum  

  

N/A 

  

N/A 

   


Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 

  

11.94 

% 

13.31 

%  


Regulatory minimum  

  

4.00 

% 

4.00 

%  


“Well-capitalized” minimum  

  

N/A 

  

N/A 

   


Total risk-based capital ratio  

  

13.19 

% 

14.57 

%  


Regulatory minimum  

  

8.00 

% 

8.00 

%  


“Well-capitalized” minimum  

  

N/A 

  

N/A 

    
 
The Bank’s capital ratios as of December 31, 2011, and 2010 (calculated in accordance with regulatory guidelines) were as follows:
 



  

  

December 31,   2011 

  

December 31,   2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Tier 1 leverage ratio  

  

9.32 

% 

9.99 

%  


Regulatory minimum  

  

4.00 

% 

4.00 

%  


“Well-capitalized” minimum  

  

5.00 

% 

5.00 

%  


Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 

  

11.79 

% 

12.12 

%  


Regulatory minimum  

  

4.00 

% 

4.00 

%  


“Well-capitalized” minimum  

  

6.00 

% 

6.00 

%  


Total risk-based capital ratio  

  

13.05 

% 

13.37 

%  


Regulatory minimum  

  

8.00 

% 

8.00 

%  


“Well-capitalized” minimum  

  

10.00 

% 

10.00 

%   
 
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we were categorized as “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action.
 
Contractual Obligations
 
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and other commitments to make future payments as of December 31, 2011:
 
62





Table of Contents
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

One Year or   Less 

  

More Than   One Year but   Less Than   Three years 

  

More Than   Three Years   but Less   Than Five   Years 

  

Five Years   or More 

  

Total 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


As of December 31, 2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Time deposits  

  

$ 

129,207 

  

$ 

36,686 

  

$ 

11,518 

  

— 

  

$ 

177,411 

   


FHLB advances  

  

11,500 

  

6,500 

  

7,000 

  

— 

  

25,000 

   


Subordinated debentures  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

5,000 

  

5,000 

   


Lease commitments  

  

344 

  

687 

  

625 

  

2,141 

  

3,797 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total 

  

$ 

141,051 

  

$ 

43,873 

  

$ 

19,143 

  

$ 

7,141 

  

$ 

211,208 

   

















  
 
FHLB advances include arrangements under various FHLB credit programs. Long-term FHLB debt is more fully described under the caption “Federal Home Loan Bank Advances and Letter of Credit” in Note 10 of our 2011 audited consolidated financial statements.  Lease commitments include the leases in place for certain branch sites.
 
Liquidity
 
Our objective for liquidity management is to ensure that we have funds available to meet deposit withdrawals and credit demands without unduly penalizing profitability.  In order to maintain a proper level of liquidity, the Bank has several sources of funds available on a daily basis that can be used for liquidity purposes.  Those sources of funds include the Bank’s core deposits, cash flow generated by repayment of principal and interest on loans and investment securities, FHLB borrowings, federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase.  While maturities and scheduled amortization of loans and investment securities are generally a predictable source of funds, deposit outflows and mortgage prepayments are influenced significantly by general interest rates, economic conditions, and competition in our local markets.
 
Our asset and liability management committee meets monthly and monitors the composition of the balance sheet to ensure comprehensive management of interest rate risk and liquidity. We prepare a monthly cash flow report which forecasts funding needs and availability for the coming months, based on forecasts of loan closings and payoffs, potentially callable securities, and other factors.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Risk
 
We are a party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of our customers. These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit. Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a client as long as the client has not violated any material condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require the payment of a fee.
 
At December 31, 2011, unfunded commitments to extend credit totaled $36.6 million, of
 
63





Table of Contents
 
which $8.9 million were at fixed rates and $27.7 million were at variable rates.  At December 31, 2010, unfunded commitments to extend credit totaled $29.7 million, of which $3.4 million were at fixed rates and $26.3 million were at variable rates. We evaluate each client’s credit worthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary by us upon extension of credit, is based on our credit evaluation of the borrower. The type of collateral varies but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment, and commercial and residential real estate.
 
We had letters of credit outstanding totaling $308,000 and $1.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The credit risk and collateral involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to clients. Since most of the letters of credit are expected to expire without being drawn upon, they do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.
 
Except as otherwise disclosed, we are not involved in off-balance sheet contractual relationships, unconsolidated related entities that have off-balance sheet arrangements, or transactions that could result in liquidity needs or other commitments that significantly impact earnings.
 
Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices
 
The consolidated financial statements and related financial data presented in this filing have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which require the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars, without considering the change in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation.  The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased cost of the Company’s operations.  Unlike most industrial companies, virtually all the assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature.  As a result, interest rates generally have a more significant impact on a financial institution’s performance than do general levels of inflation.  Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or to the same extent as the prices of goods and services.
 
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
 
Our principal financial objective is to achieve long-term profitability while reducing exposure to fluctuating market interest rates.  The Company has sought to reduce the exposure of its earnings to changes in market interest rates by attempting to manage the mismatch between asset and liability maturities and interest rates.  In order to reduce the exposure to interest rate fluctuations, the Company has developed strategies to manage its liquidity and shorten its effective maturities of certain interest-earning assets. We do not maintain a trading account for any class of financial instrument nor do we engage in hedging activities or purchase high-risk derivative instruments, and we are not subject to foreign exchange rate risk or commodity price risk.
 
We monitor interest rate sensitivity and interest rate risk with an earnings simulation model generated by First National Bankers Bank of Louisiana who employs the
 
64





Table of Contents
 
BancWare ALM System.  The BancWare ALM system uses rate risk measurement techniques to produce a reasonable estimate of interest margin risks. The system provides several methods for measuring interest rate risk, including rate sensitivity gap analysis to show cash flow and repricing information, and margin simulation, or rate shocking, to quantify the actual income risk, by modeling the Company’s sensitivity to changes in cash flows over a variety of interest rate scenarios.  The program performs a full simulation of each balance sheet category under various rate change conditions and calculates the net interest income change for each. Each category’s interest change is calculated as rates ramp up and down. In addition, the prepayment speeds and repricing speeds are changed.
 
The following illustrates the effects on net interest income of an immediate shift in market interest rates from the earnings simulation model as of December 31, 2011:
 



Projected 

  

  

  

Net Interest Income 

  

  

   


Interest Rate   Change 

  

Estimated Value 

  

$ Change From   Base 

  

% Change From   Base 

   


+400 

  

$ 

16,465,156 

  

$ 

1,534,604 

  

10.28 

%  


+300 

  

15,933,412 

  

1,002,860 

  

6.72 

%  


+200 

  

15,391,392 

  

460,840 

  

3.09 

%  


Base 

  

14,930,552 

  

0 

  

0.00 

%  


-200 

  

14,910,214 

  

(20,337 

) 

(0.14 

)%  


-300 

  

14,758,985 

  

(171,567 

) 

(1.15 

)%  










  
 
As of December 31, 2011, our balance sheet was in an asset-sensitive position and remains in an asset sensitive position for the next four years. During the asset-sensitive timeframe, an increase in interest rates would have a positive effect on earnings and a decrease in interest rates would have a negative effect on earnings.  The Company’s interest rate risk position is also impacted by the activation of floors on variable rate loans subject to repricing during the timeframe, particularly as rates move from -200 to -300.
 
In preparing the preceding table, we used certain assumptions relating to interest rates, loan prepayment rates, deposit decay rates, and the market values of certain assets under differing interest rate scenarios, among others.
 
As with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the foregoing table.  For example, although certain assets and liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to repricing, they may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates.  Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates.  Additionally, certain assets, such as ARM loans, have features that restrict changes in interest rates on a short-term basis and over the life of the asset.  Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, expected rates of prepayments on loans and early withdrawals from certificates could deviate significantly from those assumed in calculating the table.
 
65





Table of Contents
 
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
The following consolidated financial statements of the Company and report of independent accountants are included herein:
 
·                  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Crowe Horwath LLP
 
·                  Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
·                  Consolidated Statements of Operations - Years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
·                  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity - Years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
·                  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
·                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
66





Table of Contents
 



 

   


  

Crowe   Horwath LLP 

   


  

Independent   Member Crowe Horwath International 

    
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
Stockholders and Board of Directors Citizens First Corporation
Bowling Green, Kentucky
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Citizens First Corporation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years then ended.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting.  Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Citizens First Corporation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 



  

/s/   Crowe Horwath LLP  


  

   


  

   


Brentwood, Tennessee 

   


March 30, 2012 

    
 
67





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Consolidated Balance Sheets
December 31
 



  

  

(In Thousands, Except Share Data) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Assets 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash and due from financial institutions  

  

$ 

12,439 

  

$ 

4,435 

   


Federal funds sold  

  

18,110 

  

10,376 

   


Cash and cash equivalents 

  

30,549 

  

14,811 

   


Available-for-sale securities  

  

50,718 

  

39,531 

   


Loans held for sale  

  

180 

  

151 

   


Loans, net of allowance for loan losses of $5,865 and   $5,001 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively  

  

288,487 

  

263,302 

   


Premises and equipment, net  

  

11,849 

  

10,352 

   


Bank owned life insurance (BOLI)  

  

7,324 

  

7,051 

   


Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) stock, at cost  

  

2,025 

  

2,025 

   


Accrued interest receivable  

  

1,858 

  

1,940 

   


Deferred income taxes  

  

2,973 

  

3,677 

   


Goodwill  

  

4,097 

  

2,575 

   


Core deposit intangible  

  

1,346 

  

1,029 

   


Other real estate owned 

  

637 

  

1,368 

   


Other assets  

  

1,751 

  

1,919 

   


Total Assets 

  

$ 

403,794 

  

$ 

349,731 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Liabilities and   Stockholders’ Equity 

  

  

  

  

   


Liabilities 

  

  

  

  

   


Deposits 

  

  

  

  

   


Noninterest bearing  

  

$ 

38,352 

  

$ 

36,250 

   


Savings, NOW and money market  

  

116,968 

  

72,612 

   


Time  

  

177,411 

  

179,878 

   


Total deposits 

  

332,731 

  

288,740 

   


Securities sold under repurchase agreements  

  

— 

  

712 

   


FHLB advances  

  

25,000 

  

15,000 

   


Subordinated debentures  

  

5,000 

  

5,000 

   


Accrued interest payable  

  

275 

  

350 

   


Other liabilities  

  

1,916 

  

1,620 

   


Total Liabilities 

  

$ 

364,922 

  

$ 

311,422 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commitments and contingent liabilities (Note 17)  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Stockholders’ Equity 

  

  

  

  

   


6.5% cumulative preferred stock; no par value,   authorized 250 shares, aggregate liquidation preference of $7,998; issued and   outstanding 250 shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively  

  

7,659 

  

7,659 

   


5.0% Series A preferred stock; no par value,   authorized 250 shares, aggregate liquidation preference of $6,567; issued and   outstanding 187 shares at December 31, 2011 and 250 shares at   December 31, 2010, respectively  

  

6,471 

  

8,586 

   


Common stock, no par value, authorized 5,000,000   shares; issued and outstanding 1,968,777 shares at December 31, 2011,   and 2010, respectively  

  

27,072 

  

27,072 

   


Retained (deficit)  

  

(2,706 

) 

(4,357 

)  


Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)  

  

376 

  

(651 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Total stockholders’ equity 

  

$ 

38,872 

  

$ 

38,309 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total liabilities and   stockholders’ equity 

  

$ 

403,794 

  

$ 

349,731 

    
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
68





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Operations
Years Ended December 31
 



  

  

(In Thousands, Except for Per Share Data) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest and Dividend Income 

  

  

  

  

   


Loans  

  

$ 

16,020 

  

$ 

16,138 

   


Taxable securities  

  

605 

  

605 

   


Non-taxable securities  

  

726 

  

730 

   


Federal funds sold and other  

  

132 

  

111 

   


Total interest and   dividend income 

  

17,483 

  

17,584 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest Expense 

  

  

  

  

   


Deposits  

  

3,757 

  

4,714 

   


FHLB advances  

  

317 

  

250 

   


Subordinated debentures  

  

99 

  

101 

   


Short-term borrowings  

  

5 

  

8 

   


Total interest expense 

  

4,178 

  

5,073 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Net Interest Income  

  

13,305 

  

12,511 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Provision for Loan Losses  

  

2,025 

  

1,575 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Net Interest Income After   Provision for Loan Losses  

  

11,280 

  

10,936 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Noninterest Income 

  

  

  

  

   


Service charges on deposit accounts  

  

1,390 

  

1,542 

   


Other noninterest income  

  

472 

  

433 

   


Gain on sale of mortgage loans  

  

315 

  

314 

   


Lease income  

  

261 

  

163 

   


BOLI income  

  

273 

  

291 

   


Net realized gains on sale of available-for-sale   securities  

  

215 

  

0 

   


Private banking income  

  

171 

  

131 

   


Total noninterest income 

  

3,097 

  

2,874 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Noninterest Expense 

  

  

  

  

   


Salaries and employee benefits  

  

5,102 

  

4,636 

   


Net occupancy expense  

  

1,857 

  

1,930 

   


Advertising and public relations  

  

362 

  

281 

   


Professional fees  

  

629 

  

542 

   


Data processing services  

  

744 

  

737 

   


Franchise shares and deposit tax  

  

464 

  

458 

   


Core deposit intangible amortization  

  

285 

  

264 

   


Postage and office supplies  

  

164 

  

167 

   


Telephone and other communication  

  

161 

  

179 

   


Other real estate owned expenses  

  

215 

  

236 

   


FDIC Insurance  

  

271 

  

470 

   


Other  

  

707 

  

632 

   


Total noninterest   expense 

  

10,961 

  

10,532 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Income Before Income Taxes  

  

3,416 

  

3,278 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Income Taxes  

  

807 

  

739 

   


Net Income  

  

$ 

2,609 

  

$ 

2,539 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Dividends and accretion on preferred stock  

  

958 

  

1,024 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income available/attributable to common   stockholders  

  

$ 

1,651 

  

$ 

1,515 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic Income per Common   Share 

  

$ 

0.84 

  

$ 

0.77 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Diluted Income per   Common Share 

  

$ 

0.81 

  

$ 

0.75 

    
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
69






Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity
Years Ended December 31
 



  

  

(Dollar Amounts in Thousands, Except Share Data) 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Accumulated Other 

  

  

  

Total 

   


  

  

Preferred Stock 

  

Common Stock 

  

Retained 

  

Comprehensive 

  

  

  

Comprehensive 

   


  

  

Shares 

  

Amount 

  

Shares 

  

Amount 

  

(Deficit) 

  

Income (Loss) 

  

Total 

  

Income 

   


Balance, January 1, 2010 

  

500 

  

$ 

16,182 

  

1,968,777 

  

$ 

27,072 

  

$ 

(5,873 

) 

$ 

(523 

) 

$ 

36,858 

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

2,539 

  

  

  

2,539 

  

2,539 

   


Accretion on Series A preferred stock  

  

  

  

63 

  

  

  

  

  

(63 

) 

  

  

— 

  

  

   


Change in unrealized gain (loss) on available for   sale securities, net  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(128 

) 

(128 

) 

(128 

)  


Dividend declared and paid on preferred stock  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(960 

) 

  

  

(960 

) 

  

   


Stock based compensation  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total comprehensive income 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

2,411 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance, December 31, 2010  

  

500 

  

$ 

16,245 

  

1,968,777 

  

$ 

27,072 

  

$ 

(4,357 

) 

$ 

(651 

) 

$ 

38,309 

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

2,609 

  

  

  

2,609 

  

2,609 

   


Redemption of 63 shares Series A preferred   stock  

  

(63 

) 

(2,212 

) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(2,212 

) 

  

   


Accretion on Series A preferred stock  

  

  

  

97 

  

  

  

  

  

(97 

) 

  

  

— 

  

  

   


Change in unrealized gain (loss) on available for   sale securities, net  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

1,027 

  

1,027 

  

1,027 

   


Dividends declared and paid on preferred stock  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(861 

) 

  

  

(861 

) 

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total comprehensive income 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

3,636 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance, December 31, 2011  

  

437 

  

$ 

14,130 

  

1,968,777 

  

$ 

27,072 

  

$ 

(2,706 

) 

$ 

376 

  

$ 

38,872 

  

  

    
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
70





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Years Ended December 31
 



  

  

(In Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

2,609 

  

$ 

2,539 

   


Items not requiring (providing) cash: 

  

  

  

  

   


Depreciation and amortization  

  

727 

  

773 

   


Provision for loan losses  

  

2,025 

  

1,575 

   


Amortization of premiums and discounts on   securities  

  

230 

  

84 

   


Amortization of core deposit intangible  

  

285 

  

264 

   


Deferred income taxes  

  

176 

  

277 

   


Bank-owned life insurance  

  

(273 

) 

(291 

)  


Net realized gains on sale of securities  

  

(215 

) 

— 

   


Proceeds from sale of mortgage loans held for sale    

  

14,714 

  

17,363 

   


Origination of mortgage loans held for sale  

  

(14,427 

) 

(16,905 

)  


Gains on sales of loans  

  

(315 

) 

(314 

)  


Losses on sale of other real estate owned  

  

160 

  

178 

   


Loss/(Gain) on sale premises and equipment  

  

(21 

) 

5 

   


Changes in: 

  

  

  

  

   


Interest receivable  

  

137 

  

171 

   


Other assets  

  

170 

  

637 

   


Interest payable and other liabilities  

  

117 

  

417 

   


Net cash provided by   operating activities 

  

6,099 

  

6,773 

   


Investing Activities 

  

  

  

  

   


Loan originations and payments, net  

  

(14,785 

) 

(5,506 

)  


Purchase of premises and equipment  

  

(318 

) 

(316 

)  


Purchase of branch  

  

15,860 

  

— 

   


Proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale   securities  

  

12,410 

  

30,913 

   


Proceeds from sales of other real estate owned  

  

1,255 

  

170 

   


Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale   securities  

  

2,945 

  

— 

   


Purchase of available-for-sale securities  

  

(25,000 

) 

(29,663 

)  


Proceeds from sales of premises and equipment  

  

17 

  

12 

   


Net cash used in   investing activities 

  

(7,616 

) 

(4,390 

)  


Financing Activities 

  

  

  

  

   


Net change in demand deposits, money market, NOW   and savings accounts  

  

21,768 

  

(2,968 

)  


Net change in time deposits  

  

(10,728 

) 

3,188 

   


Proceeds from FHLB advances  

  

10,000 

  

16,800 

   


Repayment of FHLB advances  

  

— 

  

(13,300 

)  


Repayment of 63 shares Series A preferred   stock  

  

(2,212 

) 

— 

   


Net change in fed funds purchased and repurchase   agreements  

  

(712 

) 

(88 

)  


Dividends paid on preferred stock  

  

(861 

) 

(960 

)  


Net cash provided by   financing activities 

  

17,255 

  

2,672 

   


Increase in Cash and Cash   Equivalents  

  

15,738 

  

5,055 

   


Cash and Cash Equivalents,   Beginning of Year  

  

14,811 

  

9,756 

   


Cash and Cash Equivalents, End   of Year  

  

$ 

30,549 

  

$ 

14,811 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Supplemental Cash Flows   Information 

  

  

  

  

   


Interest paid  

  

$ 

4,253 

  

$ 

5,163 

   


Income taxes paid  

  

(545 

) 

(182 

)  


Loans transferred to other real estate owned  

  

684 

  

562 

    
 
71





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Nature of Operations and Principles of Consolidation—The consolidated financial statements include Citizens First Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiary Citizens First Bank, Inc., together referred to as “the Company”.  Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.
 
The Company provides financial services to individual and corporate customers in Warren, Simpson, Barren and Hart counties in Kentucky.  Its primary deposit products are checking, savings, and term certificate accounts, and its primary lending products are residential mortgage, commercial and consumer loans.  Substantially all loans are secured by specific items of collateral including business assets, consumer assets, and commercial and residential real estate.  Commercial loans are expected to be repaid from cash flow from operations of businesses.  There are no significant concentrations of loans to any one industry or customer.  However, the customers’ ability to repay their loans is dependent on the real estate and general economic conditions in the area.
 
Use of Estimates—To prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, management makes estimates and assumptions based on available information.  These estimates and assumptions affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the disclosures provided, and actual results could differ.  The allowance for loan losses, goodwill, intangible assets, realization of deferred tax assets, and fair values of financial instruments are particularly subject to change.
 
Cash Flows—Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, deposits with other financial institutions under 90 days, and federal funds sold.  Net cash flows are reported for customer loan and deposit transactions, interest bearing deposits in other financial institutions, and federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements.
 
Securities—Debt securities are classified as available for sale when they might be sold before maturity.  Equity securities with readily determinable fair values are classified as available for sale.  Securities available for sale are carried at fair value, with unrealized holding gains and losses reported in other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Interest income includes amortization of purchase premium or discount.  Premiums and discounts on securities are amortized on the level-yield method without anticipating prepayments, except for mortgage backed securities where prepayments are anticipated.  Gains and losses on sales are recorded on the trade date and determined using the specific identification method.
 
Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) at least on a quarterly basis, and more frequently when economic or market conditions warrant such an evaluation.  For securities in an unrealized loss position, management
 
72





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
considers the extent and duration of the unrealized loss, and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer. Management also assesses whether it intends to sell, or it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell, a security in an unrealized loss position before recovery of its amortized cost basis. If either of the criteria regarding intent or requirement to sell is met, the entire difference between amortized cost and fair value is recognized as impairment through earnings. For debt securities that do not meet the aforementioned criteria, the amount of impairment is split into two components as follows: 1) OTTI related to credit loss, which must be recognized in the income statement and 2) OTTI related to other factors, which is recognized in other comprehensive income. The credit loss is defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis. For equity securities, the entire amount of impairment is recognized through earnings.
 
Loans Held for Sale-—Mortgage loans originated and intended for sale in the secondary market are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value, as determined by outstanding commitments from investors.  Net unrealized losses, if any, are recognized through a valuation allowance by charges to income. Gains on sales of mortgage loans are recorded at the time of disbursement by an investor at the difference between the sales proceeds and the loan’s carrying value. Loans are sold servicing released.
 
Loans—Loans that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff are reported at their outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, any deferred fees or costs on originated loans and unamortized premiums or discounts on purchased loans.  Interest income is reported on the interest method and includes amortization of net deferred loan fees and costs over the loan term on the level-yield method. Past due status is based on contractual terms of the loan. Generally, loans are placed on non-accrual status at 90 days past due and interest is considered a loss, unless the loan is well secured and in the process of collection.
 
All interest accrued but not received for loans placed on nonaccrual is reversed against interest income. Interest received on such loans is accounted for on the cash-basis or cost-recovery method, until qualifying for return to accrual.  Loans are returned to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses—The allowance for loan losses is a valuation allowance for probable incurred credit losses. The allowance for loan losses is established as
 
73





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
losses are estimated to have occurred through a provision for loan losses charged to income. For all loan portfolio segments, loan losses are evaluated on a case by case basis and charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of a loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
 
The allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a regular basis by management and is based upon management’s periodic review of the collectability of the loans in light of historical experience, the nature and volume of the loan portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral, information about specific borrower situations and estimated collateral values, and prevailing economic conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. Allocations of the allowance may be made for specific loans, but the entire allowance is available for any loan that, in management’s judgment, should be charged off.
 
The allowance consists of specific and general components. The specific component relates to loans that are individually classified as impaired. A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement.  Factors considered by management in determining impairment include payment status and the probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans for which the terms have been modified resulting in a concession, and for which the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties, are considered troubled debt restructurings and classified as impaired. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Management determines the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower’s prior payment record and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed.  Impairment is measured on a loan-by-loan basis for all loan classes by either the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, the loan’s obtainable market price or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. Loans for which the terms have been modified resulting in a concession, and for which the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties, are considered troubled debt restructurings and classified as impaired.
 
74





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
The general component covers non-impaired loans and is based on historical loss experience adjusted for qualitative current factors. The historical loss experienced is determined by portfolio segment and is based on the actual loss history experienced by the Company over the most recent four years. This actual loss experience is supplemented with other economic factors based on the risks present for each portfolio
 
segment.  These factors can include the following:  levels of and trends in delinquencies and impaired loans; levels of and trends in charge offs and recoveries; trends in volume and terms of loans; effects of any changes in risk selection and underwriting standards; other changes in lending policies, procedures, and practices; experience, ability, and depth of lending management and other relevant staff; national and local economic trends and conditions; industry conditions; and effects of changes in credit concentrations.  At December 31, 2011, although all of the aforementioned qualitative factors were considered, management specifically made qualitative adjustments to increase the general component of the reserve to reflect the impact of the continued weak national and local economies for all loan segments.  For residential real estate, commercial real estate, and construction and land development loan segments, management also increased the general component to reflect the decrease in real estate values.
 
Troubled debt restructurings are separately identified for impairment disclosures and are measured at the present value of estimated future cash flows using the loan’s effective rate at inception.  If a troubled debt restructuring is considered to be a collateral dependent loan, the loan is reported, net, at the fair value of the collateral.  For troubled debt restructurings that subsequently default, the Company determines the amount of reserve in accordance with the accounting policy for the allowance for loan losses.
 
The Company defines its portfolio segments by Call Report Code, which include the following:  Commercial loans, consisting of loans to depository institutions, loans to finance agricultural production, and other non-real estate commercial and industrial loans; Commercial Real Estate, consisting of loans for construction and land development, farmland, multi-family residential properties, and other non-farm, non-residential real estate loans; Residential Real Estate, consisting of first liens on residential 1-4 family properties and junior liens (revolving and non-revolving) on residential 1-4 family properties; and Consumer, including revolving and non-revolving consumer purpose loans.
 
Commercial real estate and commercial and agricultural loans usually involve higher credit risks than that of single-family residential loans. As of December 31, 2011, the following loan types accounted for the stated percentages of our total loan portfolio: commercial real estate-48.9%, commercial and agricultural-20.0%. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. 
 
75





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity.
 
Commercial loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans have the following characteristics: (a) they depreciate over time, (b) they are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (c) they fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. These loans are secured and unsecured and are made available for general operating inventory and accounts receivables, as well as any other purposes considered appropriate. We will generally look to a borrower’s business operations as the principal source of repayment, but will also require, when appropriate, security interests in personal property and personal guarantees. In addition, the majority of commercial loans that are not mortgage loans are secured by a lien on equipment, inventory and other assets of the commercial borrower. These loans are generally considered to have greater risk than first and second mortgages on real estate because these loans may be unsecured or, if they are secured, the value of the collateral may be difficult to assess and more likely to decrease than real estate.
 
Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing, and the builder’s ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral.
 
Approximately 78.6% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. Further adverse changes in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary market specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to
 
76





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition.
 
We originate residential real estate mortgage loans with either fixed or variable interest rates to borrowers to purchase and refinance one-to-four family properties. Real estate mortgage loans are subject to the same general risks as other loans and are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in the value of real estate, which could negatively affect a borrower’s cash flow, creditworthiness and ability to repay the loan.
 
We make personal loans and lines of credit available to consumers for various purposes, such as the purchase of automobiles, boats and other recreational vehicles, and the making of home improvements and personal investments. Consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than residential mortgage loans and usually involve more credit risk than mortgage loans because of the type and nature of the collateral. Consumer lending collections are dependent on a borrower’s continuing financial stability and are thus likely to be adversely affected by job loss, illness or personal bankruptcy. In many cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan will not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance because of depreciation of the underlying collateral. We believe that the generally higher yields earned on consumer loans help compensate for the increased credit risk associated with such loans and that consumer loans are important to our efforts to serve the credit needs of our customer base.
 
Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) Stock—The Bank is a member of the FHLB system.  Members are required to own a certain amount of stock based on the level of borrowings and other factors, and may invest in additional amounts.  FHLB stock is carried at cost, classified as a restricted security, and periodically evaluated for impairment based on ultimate recovery of par value.  Both cash and stock dividends are reported as income.
 
Premises and Equipment—Land is carried at cost.  Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.  Buildings and related components are depreciated using the straight-line method with useful lives ranging from twenty-five to forty years.  Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the life of the lease or the life of the asset.  Furniture, fixtures and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line with useful lives ranging from three to seven years.
 
Foreclosed Assets—Assets acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosure are held for sale and are initially recorded at fair value, less costs to sell, at the date of foreclosure, establishing a new cost basis.  Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically performed by management to validate the carrying value of the foreclosed properties.
 
77





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Bank Owned Life Insurance—The Bank has purchased life insurance policies on certain key employees. Bank owned life insurance is recorded at the amount that can be realized under the insurance contract at the balance sheet date, which is the cash surrender value adjusted for other charges or other amounts due that are probable at settlement.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets—Prior to January 1, 2009, goodwill resulted from business acquisitions and represented the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of acquired tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets.  Goodwill resulting from business combinations after January 1, 2009, is generally determined as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date.  Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.  If the implied fair value of goodwill is lower
 
than its carrying amount, goodwill impairment is indicated and goodwill is written down to its implied fair value in the period identified.  The Company has selected December 31 as the date to perform the annual impairment test. The Company’s assessment did not identify impairment of goodwill as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.  The balance of goodwill was $4.1 million as of December 31, 2011 and $2.6 million as of December 31, 2010.
 
Other intangible assets consist largely of core deposit intangible assets arising from a bank acquisition.  They are initially measured at fair value and then are amortized on an accelerated method over their estimated useful lives of 8 years.
 
Loan Commitments and Related Financial Instruments—Financial instruments include off-balance sheet credit instruments, such as commitments to make loans and commercial letters of credit, issued to meet customer financing needs.  The face amount for these items represents the exposure to loss, before considering customer collateral or ability to repay.  Such financial instruments are recorded when they are funded.
 
Income Taxes—Income tax expense is the total of the current year income tax due or refundable and the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the tax effects of differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities.  A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized.  The Company files consolidated income tax returns with its subsidiary.
 
A tax position is recognized as a benefit only if it is “more likely than not” that the tax position would be sustained in a tax examination, with a tax examination being presumed to occur.  The amount recognized is the largest amount of tax benefit that is 
 
78





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
greater than 50% likely of being realized on examination.  For tax positions not meeting the “more likely than not” test, no tax benefit is recorded.
 
The Company recognizes interest related to income tax matters as interest expense and penalties related to income tax matters as other expense.
 
Stock Based Compensation Plans—Compensation cost is recognized for stock options issued to employees, based on the fair value of these awards at the date of grant.  A Black-Scholes model is utilized to estimate the fair value of stock options.  Compensation cost is recognized over the required service period, generally defined as the vesting period.
 
Retirement Plans—Employee 401(k) expense is the amount of matching contributions.
 
Operating Segments—While the chief decision-makers monitor the revenue streams of the various products and services, operations are managed and financial performance is evaluated on a Company-wide basis.  Operating segments are aggregated into one as operating results for all segments are similar.  Accordingly, all of the financial service operations are considered by management to be aggregated in one reportable operating segment.
 
Earnings per Common Share—Basic earnings (loss) per common share is net income (loss) available to common stockholders divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted earnings (loss) per common share include the dilutive effect of additional potential common shares issuable under stock options and preferred stock.  Earnings (loss) and dividends per share are restated for all stock splits and stock dividends through the date of issuance of the financial statements.
 
Comprehensive Income—Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive income (loss).  Other comprehensive income (loss) includes unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale which are also recognized as a separate component of equity.
 
Loss Contingencies—Loss contingencies, including claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business, are recorded as liabilities when the likelihood of loss is probable and an amount or range of loss can be reasonably estimated.  Management does not believe there now are such matters that will have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
79





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Dividend Restriction—Banking regulations require maintaining certain capital levels and may limit the dividends paid by the bank to the holding company or by the holding company to shareholders.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments—Fair values of financial instruments are estimated using relevant market information and other assumptions, as more fully disclosed in a separate note.  Fair value estimates involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment regarding interest rates, credit risk, prepayments, and other factors, especially in the absence of broad markets for particular items.  Changes in assumptions or in market conditions could significantly affect the estimates.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements—
 
The FASB issued new guidance under ASU 2010-20, Receivables—Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses (Topic 310). The guidance requires entities to provide disclosures designed to facilitate financial statement users’ evaluation of (i) the nature of credit risk inherent in the entity’s portfolio of financing receivables, (ii) how that risk is analyzed and assessed in arriving at the allowance for credit losses and (iii) the changes and reasons for those changes in the allowance for credit losses. Disclosures must be disaggregated by portfolio segment, the level at which an entity develops and documents a systematic method for determining its allowance for credit losses, and class of financing receivable, which is generally a disaggregation of portfolio segment. The required disclosures include, among other things, a roll forward of the allowance for credit losses as well as information about modified, impaired, non-accrual and past due loans and credit quality indicators. ASU 2010-20 became effective for the Company’s financial statements as of December 31, 2010, as it relates to disclosures required as of the end of a reporting period. The Company adopted the guidance for disclosures that relate to activity during a reporting period on January 1, 2011 and it did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
 
The FASB issued new guidance under ASU 2010-28, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350)—When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts. This guidance modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist such as if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. ASU 2010-28 
 
80





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
became effective for the Company on January 1, 2011 and did not have a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements.
 
The FASB issued new guidance under ASU 2011-02, Receivables (Topic 310)—A Creditor’s Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. This guidance clarifies which loan modifications constitute troubled debt restructurings and is intended to assist creditors in determining whether a modification of the terms of a receivable meets the criteria to be considered a troubled debt restructuring, both for purposes of recording an impairment loss and for disclosure of troubled debt restructurings. In evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring, a creditor must separately conclude, under this guidance, that both of the following exist: (a) the restructuring constitutes a concession; and (b) the debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. ASU 2011-02 became effective for the Company on July 1, 2011, and applies retrospectively to restructurings occurring on or after January 1, 2011. The adoption of ASU 2011-02 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements.
 
The FASB issued new guidance under ASU 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820)—Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. These amendments result in common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”). Consequently, the amendments change the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 will be effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is not permitted. Adoption of ASU 2011-04 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements.
 
The FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income (Topic 220). This guidance requires companies to present comprehensive income in a single statement below net income or in a separate statement of comprehensive income immediately following the income statement. The guidance eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity, which is our current presentation. This guidance does not change which items are reported in other comprehensive income or the requirement to report reclassifications of items from other comprehensive income to net income. This guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and will require retrospective application for all periods presented.
 
81





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 1:       Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
The FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350). This guidance is designed to simplify how entities test goodwill for impairment. The amendments in this guidance permit an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test described in Topic 350. The more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. This guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. Adoption of ASU 2011-08 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements.
 
The FASB issued ASU No. 2011-12, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220). This guidance defers the effective date for amendments to the presentation of reclassifications of items out of accumulated other comprehensive income in ASU No. 2011-05. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011.
 
Reclassifications—Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2010 financial statements to conform to the 2011 financial statement presentation.
 
82





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 2:       Available-For-Sale Securities
 
The following table summarizes the amortized cost and fair value of the available-for-sale securities portfolio at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 and the corresponding amounts of gross unrealized gains and losses recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
 



  

  

  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

Amortized   Cost 

  

Gross   Unrealized   Gains 

  

Gross   Unrealized   Losses 

  

Fair   Value 

   


December 31, 2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


U. S. government agencies and government sponsored   entities  

  

$ 

11,555 

  

$ 

27 

  

$ 

(13 

) 

$ 

11,569 

   


State and municipal  

  

18,390 

  

1,126 

  

(2 

) 

19,514 

   


Agency mortgage-backed securities: residential  

  

18,337 

  

305 

  

(7 

) 

18,635 

   


Trust preferred security  

  

1,865 

  

— 

  

(865 

) 

1,000 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total investment   securities 

  

$ 

50,147 

  

$ 

1,458 

  

$ 

(887 

) 

$ 

50,718 

   


December 31, 2010 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


U. S. government agencies and government sponsored   entities  

  

$ 

6,510 

  

$ 

22 

  

$ 

(16 

) 

$ 

6,516 

   


State and municipal  

  

18,238 

  

387 

  

(214 

) 

18,411 

   


Agency mortgage-backed securities: residential  

  

13,907 

  

91 

  

(294 

) 

13,704 

   


Trust preferred security  

  

1,863 

  

— 

  

(963 

) 

900 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total investment   securities 

  

$ 

40,518 

  

$ 

500 

  

$ 

(1,487 

) 

$ 

39,531 

    
 
The proceeds from sales of securities and the associated gains are listed below:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Sales of available for sale securities 

  

  

  

  

   


Proceeds  

  

$ 

2,945 

  

$ 

— 

   


Gross gains  

  

215 

  

— 

   


Gross losses  

  

— 

  

— 

   








  
 
The tax provision related to these realized gains were $73,000 and $0, respectively.
 
83





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 2:       Available-For-Sale Securities (Continued)
 
The amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2011 by contractual maturity were as follows.  Securities not due at a single maturity date, primarily mortgage-backed securities, are shown separately.
 



  

  

December 31, 2011   (Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

Available for Sale 

   


  

  

Amortized Cost 

  

Fair Value 

   


Due in one year or less  

  

$ 

520 

  

$ 

522 

   


Due from one to five years  

  

8,346 

  

8,521 

   


Due from five to ten years  

  

10,121 

  

10,661 

   


Due after ten years  

  

12,823 

  

12,379 

   


Agency mortgage-backed: residential  

  

18,337 

  

18,635 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Total  

  

$ 

50,147 

  

$ 

50,718 

    
 
Securities pledged at year end 2011 and 2010 had a carrying amount of $39.6 million and $32.1 million, respectively, and were pledged to secure public deposits and repurchase agreements.
 
At year end 2011 and 2010, there were no holdings of securities of any one issuer, other than the U.S. Government and its agencies, in an amount greater than 10% of shareholders’ equity.
 
The following table summarizes the investment securities with unrealized losses at December 31, 2011 and 2010, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in continuous unrealized loss position:
 
84





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 2:       Available-For-Sale Securities (Continued)
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

Less than 12 Months 

  

12 Months or More 

  

Total 

   


Description of   Securities 

  

Fair Value 

  

Unrealized   Losses 

  

Fair Value 

  

Unrealized   Losses 

  

Fair Value 

  

Unrealized   Losses 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


December 31, 2011: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


U.S. government agencies and government sponsored   entities 

  

$ 

4,505 

  

$ 

(13 

) 

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

4,505 

  

$ 

(13 

)  


Agency mortgage backed securities - residential 

  

2,569 

  

(7 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

2,569 

  

(7 

)  


State and municipal  

  

304 

  

(2 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

304 

  

(2 

)  


Trust preferred security 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,000 

  

(865 

) 

1,000 

  

(865 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total temporarily   impaired  

  

$ 

7,378 

  

$ 

(22 

) 

$ 

1,000 

  

$ 

(865 

) 

$ 

8,378 

  

$ 

(887 

)   
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

Less than 12 Months 

  

12 Months or More 

  

Total 

   


Description of   Securities 

  

Fair Value 

  

Unrealized   Losses 

  

Fair Value 

  

Unrealized   Losses 

  

Fair Value 

  

Unrealized   Losses 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


December 31, 2010: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


U.S. government agencies and government sponsored   entities 

  

$ 

1,982 

  

$ 

(16 

) 

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

1,982 

  

$ 

(16 

)  


Agency mortgage backed securities - residential 

  

10,238 

  

(294 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

10,238 

  

(294 

)  


State and municipal  

  

6,432 

  

(214 

) 

— 

  

— 

  

6,432 

  

(214 

)  


Trust preferred security 

  

— 

  

— 

  

900 

  

(963 

) 

900 

  

(963 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total temporarily   impaired  

  

$ 

18,652 

  

$ 

(524 

) 

$ 

900 

  

$ 

(963 

) 

$ 

19,552 

  

$ 

(1,487 

)   
 
Other-Than-Temporary-Impairment
 
Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) at least on a quarterly basis, and more frequently when economic or market conditions warrant such an evaluation.  Investment securities classified as available for sale are generally evaluated for OTTI under ASC Topic 320, “Investments - Debt and Equity Securities.”
 
In determining OTTI under the ASC Topic 320 model, management considers many factors, including: (1) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (2) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, (3) whether the market decline was affected by macroeconomic conditions, and (4) whether the entity has the intent to sell the debt security or more likely than not will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery.  The assessment of whether an other than temporary decline exists involves a high degree of subjectivity 
 
85





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 2:       Available-For-Sale Securities (Continued)
 
and judgment and is based on the information available to management at a point in time.
 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s security portfolio consisted of $50.7 million fair value of securities, $8.4 million, or 10 securities, of which were in an unrealized loss position.
 
All rated securities are investment grade.  For those that are not rated, the financial condition has been evaluated and no adverse conditions were identified related to repayment.  Declines in fair value are a function of rate differences in the market and market illiquidity.  The Company does not intend or is not expected to be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis.
 
The Company’s unrealized losses relate primarily to its investment in a single trust preferred security.  The security is a single-issuer trust preferred that is not rated.  Current market conditions have allowed some increase in the fair market value of the trust preferred security at December 31, 2011; however, a full recovery has not yet occurred.  No impairment charge is being taken as no loss of principal or interest is anticipated.  All principal and interest payments are being received as scheduled. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate the creditworthiness of the issuer, a bank holding company with operations in the state of Kentucky. Based on the issuer’s continued profitability and well-capitalized position, we do not deem that there is credit loss.  The decline in fair value is primarily attributable to temporary illiquidity and the economic downturn affecting these markets and not to the expected cash flows of the individual securities.  We have evaluated the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer and expect to fully recover our cost basis. This security continues to pay interest as agreed and future payments are expected to be made as agreed. This security is not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired.
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses
 
Categories of loans at December 31 include:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

$ 

58,853 

  

$ 

66,124 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

13,720 

  

15,423 

   


Other  

  

130,300 

  

101,568 

   


Residential real estate  

  

83,486 

  

75,514 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

3,998 

  

4,932 

   


Other  

  

3,995 

  

4,742 

   


Total loans 

  

294,352 

  

268,303 

   


Less allowance for loan losses  

  

(5,865 

) 

(5,001 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Net loans 

  

$ 

288,487 

  

$ 

263,302 

    
 
86





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses (Continued)
 
Activity in the allowance for loan losses was as follows:
 



  

  

(Dollars In Thousands) 

   


  

  

Commercial 

  

Commercial   Real Estate 

  

Residential   Real Estate 

  

Consumer 

  

Unallocated 

  

Total 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


December 31, 2011  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Allowance for loan losses: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Beginning balance  

  

$ 

3,212 

  

$ 

902 

  

$ 

604 

  

$ 

200 

  

$ 

83 

  

$ 

5,001 

   


Provision for loan losses  

  

(251 

) 

1,607 

  

518 

  

(39 

) 

190 

  

2,025 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Loans charged-off  

  

(512 

) 

(523 

) 

(302 

) 

(95 

) 

— 

  

(1,432 

)  


Recoveries  

  

218 

  

— 

  

38 

  

15 

  

— 

  

271 

   


Total ending allowance balance  

  

$ 

2,667 

  

$ 

1,986 

  

$ 

858 

  

$ 

81 

  

$ 

273 

  

$ 

5,865 

    
 



  

  

(Dollars In Thousands) 

   


  

  

Commercial 

  

Commercial   Real Estate 

  

Residential   Real Estate 

  

Consumer 

  

Unallocated 

  

Total 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


December 31, 2010  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Allowance for loan losses: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Beginning balance  

  

$ 

2,085 

  

$ 

892 

  

$ 

805 

  

$ 

148 

  

$ 

58 

  

$ 

3,988 

   


Provision for loan losses  

  

1,043 

  

269 

  

131 

  

107 

  

25 

  

1,575 

   


Loans charged-off  

  

(149 

) 

(265 

) 

(357 

) 

(68 

) 

— 

  

(839 

)  


Recoveries  

  

233 

  

6 

  

25 

  

13 

  

— 

  

277 

   


Total ending allowance balance  

  

$ 

3,212 

  

$ 

902 

  

$ 

604 

  

$ 

200 

  

$ 

83 

  

$ 

5,001 

    
 
The following table presents the balance in the allowance for loan losses and the recorded investment in loans by portfolio segment and based on the impairment method as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.  Accrued interest receivable of $1.6 million and net deferred loans fees of $96 thousand are not considered significant and therefore are not included in the loan balances presented in the tables below:
 
87





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses (Continued)
 



  

  

(Dollars In Thousands) 

   


  

  

Commercial 

  

Commercial   Real Estate 

  

Residential   Real Estate 

  

Consumer 

  

Unallocated 

  

Total 

   


December 31, 2011  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Allowance for loan losses: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Ending allowance balance attributable to loans: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Individually evaluated for impairment  

  

$ 

1,738 

  

$ 

973 

  

$ 

310 

  

$ 

6 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

3,027 

   


Collectively evaluated  

  

929 

  

1,013 

  

548 

  

75 

  

273 

  

2,838 

   


Total ending allowance balance  

  

$ 

2,667 

  

$ 

1,986 

  

$ 

858 

  

$ 

81 

  

$ 

273 

  

$ 

5,865 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Loans: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Individually evaluated for impairment  

  

$ 

4,186 

  

$ 

3,624 

  

$ 

971 

  

$ 

6 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

8,787 

   


Collectively evaluated  

  

54,667 

  

140,396 

  

82,515 

  

7,987 

  

— 

  

285,565 

   


Total ending allowance balance  

  

$ 

58,853 

  

$ 

144,020 

  

$ 

83,486 

  

$ 

7,993 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

294,352 

    
 



  

  

(Dollars In Thousands) 

   


  

  

Commercial 

  

Commercial   Real Estate 

  

Residential   Real Estate 

  

Consumer 

  

Unallocated 

  

Total 

   


December 31, 2010  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Allowance for loan losses: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Ending allowance balance attributable to loans: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Individually evaluated for impairment  

  

$ 

2,064 

  

$ 

443 

  

$ 

157 

  

$ 

9 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

2,673 

   


Collectively evaluated  

  

1,148 

  

459 

  

447 

  

191 

  

83 

  

2,328 

   


Total ending allowance balance  

  

$ 

3,212 

  

$ 

902 

  

$ 

604 

  

$ 

200 

  

$ 

83 

  

$ 

5,001 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Loans: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Individually evaluated for impairment  

  

$ 

6,468 

  

$ 

3,832 

  

$ 

434 

  

$ 

14 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

10,748 

   


Collectively evaluated  

  

59,656 

  

113,159 

  

75,080 

  

9,660 

  

— 

  

257,555 

   


Total ending allowance balance  

  

$ 

66,124 

  

$ 

116,991 

  

$ 

75,514 

  

$ 

9,674 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

268,303 

    
 
88





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses (Continued)
 
The following table presents information related to impaired loans by class of loans as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011.  In this table presentation the unpaid principal balance of the loans has been reduced by net charge-offs and is equivalent to the recorded investment.
 



  

  

Unpaid    Principal    Balance 

  

Allowance    for Loan    Losses    Allocated 

  

Average    Recorded    Investment 

  

Interest    Income    Recognized 

  

Cash Basis    Interest    Recognized 

   


December 31, 2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


With no related allowance recorded: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial 

  

$ 

2,020 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

3,099 

  

$ 

204 

  

$ 

204 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

— 

  

— 

  

95 

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other  

  

999 

  

— 

  

1,574 

  

96 

  

56 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Residential real estate  

  

374 

  

— 

  

252 

  

12 

  

9 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Subtotal 

  

3,393 

  

— 

  

5,020 

  

312 

  

269 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


With an allowance recorded: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial 

  

2,166 

  

1,738 

  

2,228 

  

158 

  

158 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other  

  

2,625 

  

973 

  

2,059 

  

108 

  

105 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Residential real estate  

  

597 

  

310 

  

450 

  

33 

  

10 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

5 

  

5 

  

9 

  

1 

  

1 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other  

  

1 

  

1 

  

1 

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Subtotal 

  

5,394 

  

3,027 

  

4,747 

  

300 

  

274 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total 

  

$ 

8,787 

  

$ 

3,027 

  

$ 

9,767 

  

$ 

612 

  

$ 

543 

    
 
The following table presents loans individually evaluated for impairment by class of loans as of December 31, 2010.  In this table presentation the unpaid principal balance of the loans has been reduced by net charge-offs and is equivalent to the recorded investment.
 
89





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses (Continued)
 



  

  

Unpaid    Principal    Balance 

  

Allowance    for Loan    Losses    Allocated 

  

Average    Recorded    Investment 

  

Interest    Income    Recognized 

  

Cash Basis    Interest    Recognized 

   


December 31, 2010  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


With no related allowance recorded: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial 

  

$ 

4,178 

  

— 

  

$ 

2,090 

  

$ 

376 

  

$ 

376 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

191 

  

— 

  

95 

  

13 

  

13 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other  

  

2,148 

  

— 

  

1,074 

  

157 

  

151 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Residential real estate  

  

131 

  

— 

  

116 

  

3 

  

3 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

— 

  

— 

  

9 

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other  

  

— 

  

— 

  

4 

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Subtotal 

  

6,648 

  

— 

  

3,388 

  

549 

  

543 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


With an allowance recorded: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial 

  

2,290 

  

2,064 

  

1,319 

  

131 

  

131 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

— 

  

— 

  

169 

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other  

  

1,493 

  

443 

  

808 

  

100 

  

100 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Residential real estate  

  

303 

  

157 

  

298 

  

12 

  

10 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

13 

  

8 

  

7 

  

1 

  

1 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other  

  

1 

  

1 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Subtotal 

  

4,100 

  

2,673 

  

2,601 

  

244 

  

242 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total 

  

$ 

10,748 

  

$ 

2,673 

  

$ 

5,989 

  

$ 

793 

  

$ 

785 

   

















  
 
90





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses (Continued)
 
Nonaccrual loans and loans past due 90 days still on accrual include both smaller balance homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment and individually classified impaired loans.
 
The following tables present the recorded investment in nonaccrual and loans past due over 90 days still on accrual by class of loans as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

Loans Past Due   Over 90 Days and   Still Accruing 

  

Nonaccrual 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

1,553 

  

$ 

163 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

191 

   


Other  

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,735 

  

462 

   


Residential real estate  

  

— 

  

— 

  

970 

  

434 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

— 

  

— 

  

5 

  

11 

   


Other  

  

— 

  

2 

  

1 

  

1 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

2 

  

$ 

4,264 

  

$ 

1,262 

    
 
91





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses(Continued)
 
The following table presents the aging of the recorded investment in past due loans as of December 31, 2011 by class of loans.  Non-accrual loans are included and have been categorized based on their payment status:
 



  

  

(Dollars In Thousands) 

   


  

  

30-59   Days   Past Due 

  

60-89   Days   Past Due 

  

Over 90   Days   Past Due 

  

Total   Past Due 

  

Loans Not   Past Due 

  

Total 

   


December 31, 2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

$ 

640 

  

$ 

100 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

740 

  

$ 

58,113 

  

$ 

58,853 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

13,720 

  

13,720 

   


Other  

  

102 

  

— 

  

559 

  

661 

  

129,639 

  

130,300 

   


Residential real estate  

  

278 

  

310 

  

515 

  

1,103 

  

82,383 

  

83,486 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

26 

  

— 

  

— 

  

26 

  

3,972 

  

3,998 

   


Other  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

3,995 

  

3,995 

   


Total  

  

$ 

1,046 

  

$ 

410 

  

$ 

1,074 

  

$ 

2,530 

  

$ 

291,822 

  

$ 

294,352 

    
 
The following table presents the aging of the recorded investment in past due loans as of December 31, 2010 by class of loans.  Non-accrual loans are included and have been categorized based on their payment status:
 



  

  

(Dollars In Thousands) 

   


  

  

30-59   Days   Past Due 

  

60-89   Days   Past Due 

  

Over 90   Days   Past Due 

  

Total   Past Due 

  

Loans Not   Past Due 

  

Total 

   


December 31, 2010 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

$ 

25 

  

$ 

50 

  

$ 

113 

  

$ 

188 

  

$ 

65,936 

  

$ 

66,124 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

191 

  

— 

  

— 

  

191 

  

15,232 

  

15,423 

   


Other  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

101,568 

  

101,568 

   


Residential real estate  

  

216 

  

— 

  

196 

  

412 

  

75,102 

  

75,514 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

10 

  

5 

  

2 

  

17 

  

4,915 

  

4,932 

   


Other  

  

8 

  

— 

  

1 

  

9 

  

4,733 

  

4,742 

   


Total  

  

$ 

450 

  

$ 

55 

  

$ 

312 

  

$ 

817 

  

$ 

267,486 

  

$ 

268,303 

    
 
92





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses(Continued)
 
Troubled Debt Restructurings:
 
The Company reported total troubled debt restructurings of $2.9 million and $1.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The Company has no commitments to lend additional amounts as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 to customers with outstanding loans that are classified as troubled debt restructurings.  Troubled debt restructurings are evaluated along with other impaired loans.
 
During the year ending December 31, 2011, the terms of certain loans were modified as troubled debt restructurings. The modification of the terms of such loans included one or a combination of the following: a reduction of the stated interest rate of the loan; an extension of the maturity date at a stated rate of interest lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk; or a permanent reduction of the recorded investment in the loan.  No troubled debt restructurings were defaulted during 2011.
 
Modifications involving a reduction of the stated interest rate of the loan or the extension of the maturity date were for periods ranging from six months to 15 years.
 
The following table presents loans by class modified as troubled debt restructurings that occurred during the year ending December 31, 2011:
 



  

  

  

  

(Dollars in thousands) 

   


  

  

Number of    Loans 

  

Pre-Modification    Outstanding    Recorded    Investment 

  

Post-Modification    Outstanding Recorded    Investment 

   


Troubled Debt Restructurings: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Other  

  

4 

  

3,173 

  

2,844 

   


Residential real estate  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Other  

  

1 

  

32 

  

32 

   


Total  

  

5 

  

$ 

3,205 

  

$ 

2,876 

    
 
The troubled debt restructurings described above increased the allowance for loan losses by $493,000 and resulted in charge offs of $329,000 during the year ending December 31, 2011.
 
93





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses(Continued)
 
The terms of certain other loans were modified during the year ending December 31, 2011 that did not meet the definition of a troubled debt restructuring. These loans have a total recorded investment as of December 31, 2011 of $6.9 million. The modification of these loans involved either a modification of the terms of a loan to borrowers who were not experiencing financial difficulties or a delay in a payment that was considered to be insignificant.
 
In order to determine whether a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, an evaluation is performed of the probability that the borrower will be in payment default on any of its debt in the foreseeable future without the modification. This evaluation is performed under the company’s internal underwriting policy.
 
Credit Quality Indicators:
 
The Company categorizes loans into risk categories based on relevant information about the ability of borrowers to service their debt such as current financial information, historical payment experience, credit documentation, public information, and current economic trends, among other factors. The Company analyzes loans individually by classifying the loans as to credit risk. This analysis includes commercial and commercial real estate loans with an outstanding balance greater than $25 thousand and is reviewed on a monthly basis. For residential real estate and consumer loans the analysis primarily involves monitoring the past due status of these loans and at such time that these loans are past due, the Company evaluates the loans to determine if a change in risk category is warranted. The Company uses the following definitions for risk ratings:
 
Special Mention. Loans classified as special mention have a potential weakness that deserves management’s close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects for the loan or of the institution’s credit position at some future date.
 
Substandard. Loans classified as substandard are inadequately protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. Loans so classified have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the institution will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected.
 
Doubtful.  Loans classified as doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in those classified as substandard, with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, highly questionable and improbable.
 
94





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 3:       Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses(Continued)
 
Loans not meeting the criteria above that are analyzed individually as part of the above described process are considered to be Pass rated loans.  All loans in all loan categories are assigned risk ratings. As of December 31, 2011, and based on the most recent analysis performed, the risk category of loans by class of loans is as follows:
 



  

  

Pass 

  

Special   Mention 

  

Substandard 

  

Doubtful 

  

Total 

   


December 31, 2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

$ 

54,021 

  

$ 

50 

  

$ 

4,699 

  

$ 

83 

  

$ 

58,853 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

13,720 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

13,720 

   


Other  

  

117,798 

  

2,849 

  

8,955 

  

698 

  

130,300 

   


Residential real estate  

  

82,248 

  

— 

  

975 

  

263 

  

83,486 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

3,993 

  

— 

  

— 

  

5 

  

3,998 

   


Other  

  

3,994 

  

— 

  

1 

  

— 

  

3,995 

   


Total  

  

$ 

275,774 

  

$ 

2,899 

  

$ 

14,630 

  

$ 

1,049 

  

$ 

294,352 

    
 
Loans not meeting the criteria above that are analyzed individually as part of the above described process are considered to be Pass rated loans.  All loans in all loan categories are assigned risk ratings.  As of December 31, 2010, and based on the most recent analysis performed, the risk category of loans by class of loans is as follows:
 



  

  

Pass 

  

Special   Mention 

  

Substandard 

  

Doubtful 

  

Total 

   


December 31, 2010 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial  

  

$ 

56,124 

  

$ 

597 

  

$ 

9,265 

  

$ 

138 

  

$ 

66,124 

   


Commercial real estate: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Construction  

  

15,232 

  

— 

  

191 

  

— 

  

15,423 

   


Other  

  

86,565 

  

9,039 

  

5,964 

  

— 

  

101,568 

   


Residential real estate  

  

75,104 

  

— 

  

294 

  

116 

  

75,514 

   


Consumer: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Auto  

  

4,921 

  

— 

  

11 

  

— 

  

4,932 

   


Other  

  

4,733 

  

— 

  

9 

  

— 

  

4,742 

   


Total  

  

$ 

242,679 

  

$ 

9,636 

  

$ 

15,734 

  

$ 

254 

  

$ 

268,303 

    
 
95





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 4:       Other Real Estate Owned
 
Activity in the Company’s other real estate owned was as follows:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance, beginning of year  

  

$ 

1,368 

  

$ 

1,154 

   


Additions  

  

684 

  

562 

   


Direct write-downs  

  

(157 

) 

(176 

)  


Sales  

  

(1,255 

) 

(170 

)  


Net loss on sales  

  

(3 

) 

(2 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance, end of year 

  

$ 

637 

  

$ 

1,368 

    
 
All expenses related to other real estate owned are recorded as they are incurred, and any deterioration in value is directly written down against the value of the property.  No valuation allowance is utilized for other real estate owned.
 
Note 5:       Disclosures About Fair Value
 
ASC 820 defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or   liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.  ASC 820 also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.  The standard describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:
 
Level 1:                                          Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 
Level 2:                                          Significant other observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, and other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.
 
Level 3:                                          Significant unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity, reflect a company’s own assumptions about market participant assumptions of fair value, and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
 
The fair value of securities available for sale are determined by obtaining quoted prices on nationally recognized securities exchanges (level 1 inputs) or matrix pricing, which is a mathematical technique used widely in the industry to value debt securities without relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities but rather by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted securities (level 2 inputs).
 
96





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 5:       Disclosures About Fair Value (Continued)
 
The Company does not have any Level 1 securities.  Level 2 securities include certain U.S. agency bonds, collateralized mortgage and debt obligations, and certain municipal securities.
 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below.
 
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011
(Dollars in Thousands)
 



  

  

Quoted Prices   in Active   Markets for   Identical Assets   (Level 1) 

  

Significant Other   Observable Inputs   (Level 2) 

  

Significant   Unobservable Inputs   (Level 3) 

   


Assets: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Securities available-for-sale 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


U. S. government agencies and government sponsored   entities 

  

  

  

$ 

11,569 

  

  

   


State and municipal 

  

  

  

19,514 

  

  

   


Agency mortgage-backed securities -residential 

  

  

  

18,635 

  

  

   


Trust preferred security 

  

  

  

1,000 

  

  

   


Total investment securities 

  

— 

  

$ 

50,718 

  

— 

    
 
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010
(Dollars in Thousands)
 



  

  

Quoted Prices   in Active   Markets for   Identical Assets   (Level 1) 

  

Significant Other   Observable Inputs   (Level 2) 

  

Significant   Unobservable Inputs   (Level 3) 

   


Assets: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Securities available-for-sale 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


U. S. government agencies and government sponsored   entities 

  

  

  

$ 

6,516 

  

  

   


State and municipal 

  

  

  

18,411 

  

  

   


Agency mortgage-backed securities -residential 

  

  

  

13,704 

  

  

   


Trust preferred security 

  

  

  

900 

  

  

   


Total investment securities 

  

— 

  

$ 

39,531 

  

— 

    
 
97





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 5:       Disclosures About Fair Value (Continued)
 
Financial assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis are summarized below:
 
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011
(Dollars in Thousands)
 



  

  

Quoted Prices   in Active   Markets for   Identical Assets    (Level 1) 

  

Significant Other   Observable Inputs   (Level 2) 

  

Significant   Unobservable Inputs   (Level 3) 

   


Impaired loans: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

427 

   


Commercial RE 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

1,652 

   


Residential 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

287 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other real estate owned: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial RE 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

493 

   


Residential 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

144 

    
 
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010
(Dollars in Thousands)
 



  

  

Quoted Prices    in Active   Markets for   Identical Assets    (Level 1) 

  

Significant Other   Observable Inputs   (Level 2) 

  

Significant   Unobservable Inputs   (Level 3) 

   


Impaired loans: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

227 

   


Commercial RE 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

1,241 

   


Residential 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

145 

   


Consumer 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

5 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other real estate owned: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial RE 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

928 

   


Residential 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

440 

    
 
Impaired loans which are measured for impairment using the fair value of collateral for collateral dependent loans, had a principal balance of $5.4 million at December 31, 2011, with a valuation allowance of $3.0 million, resulting in an additional provision for loan losses of $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  At December 31, 2010, impaired loans had a carrying amount of $4.3 million, with a valuation allowance of $2.7 million, resulting in an additional provision for loan losses of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
The fair value of impaired loans with specific allocations of the allowance for loan losses is generally based on recent real estate appraisals. These appraisals may utilize a single valuation approach or a combination of approaches including comparable sales
 
98





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 5:       Disclosures About Fair Value (Continued)
 
and the income approach. Adjustments are routinely made in the appraisal process by the independent appraisers to adjust for differences between the comparable sales and income data available. Such adjustments are usually significant and typically result in a Level 3 classification of the inputs for determining fair value.
 
Other real estate owned, which is measured at fair value less costs to sell, had a net carrying value of $637,000 and $1,368,000 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.  Total write-downs of other real estate owned during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 were $157,000 and $176,000, respectively.
 
Commercial and residential real estate properties classified as other real estate owned (OREO) are measured at fair value, less costs to sell. Fair values are based on recent real estate appraisals. These appraisals may use a single valuation approach or a combination of approaches including comparable sales and the income approach. Adjustments are routinely made in the appraisal process by the independent appraisers to adjust for differences between the comparable sales and income data available. Such adjustments are usually significant and typically result in a Level 3 classification of the inputs for determining fair value.
 
Carrying amount and estimated fair values of financial instruments, not previously presented, at year end were as follows:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

December 31, 2011 

  

December 31, 2010 

   


  

  

Carrying   Amount 

  

Fair Value 

  

Carrying   Amount 

  

Fair Value 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Financial Assets 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash and cash equivalents  

  

$ 

30,549 

  

$ 

30,549 

  

$ 

14,811 

  

$ 

14,811 

   


Loans held for sale  

  

180 

  

183 

  

151 

  

153 

   


Loans, net of allowance  

  

286,122 

  

295,019 

  

261,684 

  

262,718 

   


Accrued interest receivable  

  

1,858 

  

1,858 

  

1,940 

  

1,940 

   


Federal Home Loan Bank stock  

  

2,025 

  

N/A 

  

2,025 

  

N/A 

   














  
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

December 31, 2011 

  

December 31, 2010 

   


  

  

Carrying   Amount 

  

Fair Value 

  

Carrying   Amount 

  

Fair Value 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Financial Liabilities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Deposits  

  

$ 

332,731 

  

$ 

333,891 

  

$ 

288,740 

  

$ 

289,706 

   


Securities sold under repurchase agreements  

  

— 

  

— 

  

712 

  

712 

   


FHLB advances  

  

25,000 

  

25,383 

  

15,000 

  

15,328 

   


Subordinate debentures  

  

5,000 

  

2,321 

  

5,000 

  

3,179 

   


Accrued interest payable  

  

275 

  

275 

  

350 

  

350 

   














  
 
99





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 5:       Disclosures About Fair Value (Continued)
 
The methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value are described as follows:
 
Carrying amount is the estimated fair value for cash and cash equivalents, interest bearing deposits, accrued interest receivable and payable, demand deposits, short-term debt, and variable rate loans or deposits that reprice frequently and fully.  For fixed rate loans or deposits and for variable rate loans or deposits with infrequent repricing or repricing limits, fair value is based on discounted cash flows using current market rates applied to the estimated life. Loans are reported net of the allowance for loan losses.  Fair value of loans held for sale is based on market quotes.  Fair value of debt is based on current rates for similar financing.  The fair value of off-balance-sheet items is not considered material.  It is not practicable to determine fair value of FHLB stock due to restrictions placed on its transferability.
 
Note 6:       Premises and Equipment
 
Major classifications of premises and equipment, stated at cost, are as follows:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Land and land improvements  

  

$ 

3,633 

  

$ 

2,977 

   


Buildings and improvements  

  

8,870 

  

7,699 

   


Leasehold improvements  

  

250 

  

239 

   


Furniture and fixtures  

  

828 

  

727 

   


Equipment and software  

  

3,625 

  

3,388 

   


Automobiles  

  

67 

  

80 

   


  

  

17,273 

  

15,110 

   


Less accumulated depreciation  

  

(5,424 

) 

(4,758 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Net premises and   equipment 

  

$ 

11,849 

  

$ 

10,352 

    
 
Depreciation and amortization expense totaled $727,000 and $773,000 for 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Operating Leases
 
The Company leases certain branch properties and equipment under operating leases.  Rent expense was $329,000 for both 2011 and 2010.  Rent commitments, before considering renewal options that generally are present, were as follows (in thousands):
 
100





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 6:       Premises and Equipment(Continued)
 



2012  

  

344 

   


2013  

  

343 

   


2014  

  

344 

   


2015  

  

318 

   


2016  

  

307 

   


Thereafter  

  

2,141 

   


  

  

  

   


Total 

  

$ 

3,797 

   





  
 
During December 2006, the Company sold a property to an unrelated third party, and subsequently entered into a lease agreement for the property.  A gain of $246,000 was deferred and will be recognized over the fifteen year term of the lease. $16,000 of the deferred gain was recognized in 2011 and 2010.
 
Note 7:       Goodwill and Intangible Assets
 
Goodwill
 
Management performs a goodwill impairment analysis on an annual basis, or more frequently if circumstances warrant. We engaged a third party valuation firm to evaluate goodwill. We performed our annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2011 and 2010 which indicated no impairment.  Goodwill balance was $4.1 and $2.6 million at year end 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The increase in goodwill relates to the acquisition of a banking office in Bowling Green, KY from Republic Bank & Trust Company, a subsidiary of Republic Bancorp, Inc.  The Bank acquired approximately $33 million in deposits and $13 million in loans, as well as the real estate and other fixed assets.  The Bank paid a deposit premium of 6.51%, or approximately $2.1 million.  The acquisition resulted in approximately $1.5 million of goodwill and $602,000 in core deposit intangible.
 
Acquired Intangible Assets
 
Acquired intangible assets were as follows at year end:
 



  

  

(Dollars in thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Core   deposit intangibles: 

  

  

  

  

   


Gross   carrying amount 

  

$ 

2,805 

  

$ 

2,203 

   


Accumulated   amortization 

  

$ 

(1,459 

) 

$ 

(1,174 

)   
 
Amortization expense was $285,000 in 2011 and $264,000 in 2010.
 
101





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 7:       Goodwill and Intangible Assets (Continued)
 
Estimated amortization expense for each of the next five years:
 



  

  

(Dollars in   Thousands) 

   


  

  

  

   


2012    

  

$ 

349 

   


2013    

  

332 

   


2014    

  

318 

   


2015    

  

54 

   


2016    

  

46 

   





  
 
Note 8:       Deposits
 
Interest-bearing time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more were $59.4 million and $66.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  This included brokered deposits of $6.1 million and $19.2 million at year end 2011 and 2010.
 
At December 31, 2011, the scheduled maturities of time deposits were as follows:
 



  

  

(Dollars In   Thousands) 

   


  

  

  

   


2012  

  

$ 

129,207 

   


2013  

  

11,175 

   


2014  

  

25,511 

   


2015  

  

528 

   


2016  

  

10,990 

   


  

  

  

   


  

  

$ 

177,411 

   






  
 
At December 31, 2011, ten customers accounted for approximately $33.7 million, or 10.1%, of total deposits whereas, at December 31, 2010, ten customers accounted for approximately $17.4 million or 6.0% of total deposits.
 
102





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 9:       Federal Home Loan Bank Advances, Letter of Credit and Borrowed Funds
 
At year-end, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) were as follows:
 



  

  

(Dollars in thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Matures June 2012, fixed rate at 0.26% 

  

$ 

5,000 

  

$ 

— 

   


Matures August 2012, fixed rate at 4.25%   until February 2011, with FHLB option to call in full each 6 months   thereafter 

  

500 

  

500 

   


Matures August 2012, fixed rate at 1.09% 

  

2,000 

  

2,000 

   


Matures December 2012, fixed rate at 3.36%   until March 2011 with FHLB option to call in full each 12 months   thereafter 

  

2,000 

  

2,000 

   


Matures December 2012, fixed rate at 0.85% 

  

2,000 

  

2,000 

   


Matures October 2013, fixed rate at 0.81% 

  

2,500 

  

2,500 

   


Matures December 2014, fixed rate at 1.73% 

  

2,000 

  

2,000 

   


Matures December 2014, fixed rate at 3.46%   until March 2011, with FHLB option to call in full each 24 months   thereafter 

  

2,000 

  

2,000 

   


Matures February 2015, fixed rate at 2.85%   until February  2011, with FHLB option to call in full each 24 months   thereafter 

  

2,000 

  

2,000 

   


Matures December 2015, fixed rate at 1.14% 

  

5,000 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Total 

  

$ 

25,000 

  

$ 

15,000 

    
 
Each advance is payable at its maturity date, with a prepayment penalty for fixed rate advances.  The advances were collateralized by $51.0 million and $45.7 million of first mortgage loans under a blanket lien arrangement for both year-end 2011 and 2010.  Based on this collateral and the Company’s holdings of FHLB stock, the Company is eligible to borrow up to an additional $32.9 million at year-end 2011.
 
Payment Information
 
Required payments over the next five years are:
 



  

  

(Dollars in   Thousands) 

   


  

  

  

   


2012  

  

$ 

11,500 

   


2013  

  

2,500 

   


2014  

  

4,000 

   


2015  

  

7,000 

   


2016  

  

— 

   


  

  

  

   


  

  

$ 

25,000 

   






  
 
Other Borrowed Funds
 
Prior to the end of 2011, the Bank offered Repurchase agreements which matured in one business day, and the rate paid on these accounts was variable at our discretion,
 
103





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 9:       Federal Home Loan Bank Advances, Letter of Credit and Borrowed Funds (Continued)
 
based on a tiered balance calculation. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase were secured by US government agencies or mortgage-backed securities with a carrying amount of $1.3 million at year- end 2010.
 
The Bank now offers a sweep-based product with tiered balance calculations, with FDIC insurance securing the balances up to $250,000 per account holder.
 
Information concerning securities sold under agreements to repurchase while they were still in existence is summarized as follows:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Average daily balance during the year  

  

$ 

506 

  

$ 

870 

   


Average interest rate during the year  

  

0.89 

% 

0.92 

%  


Maximum month-end balance during the year  

  

$ 

957 

  

$ 

918 

   


Weighted average interest rate at year-end  

  

NA 

  

0.89 

%   
 
Letter of Credit
 
At year-end 2011, the Bank also had an outstanding Standby Letter of Credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank in the amount of $2.0 million to be used for public unit deposit collateralization.  At December 31, 2011, $2.0 million of the letter of credit was pledged to secure public funds.
 
Note 10:     Subordinated Debentures
 
In October 2006, Citizens First Statutory Trust I, a trust formed by the Company, closed a pooled private offering of $5.0 million trust preferred securities with a liquidation amount of $1,000 per trust security.  The Company issued $5.2 million of subordinated debentures to the trust in exchange for ownership of all of the common security of the trust and the proceeds of the preferred securities sold by the trust.  In accordance with accounting standards, the trust is not consolidated with the Company’s financial statements.  The Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of this Trust (variable interest entity), therefore, the trust is not consolidated in the Company’s financial statements, but rather the subordinated debentures are shown as a liability.  The Company’s investment in the common stock of the trust was $155,000.
 
The Company may redeem the subordinated debentures, in whole or in part, in a principal amount with integral multiples of $1,000 per trust security, on or after January 1, 2012 at 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  The subordinated debentures mature on January 1, 2037.  The subordinated debentures are
 
104





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 10:     Subordinated Debentures(Continued)
 
also redeemable in whole or in part from time to time, upon the occurrence of specific events defined within the trust indenture.  The Company has the option to defer interest payments on the subordinated debentures from time to time for a period not to exceed five consecutive years.
 
The subordinated debentures may be included in Tier I capital (with certain limitations applicable) under current regulatory guidelines and interpretations. The securities have a stated maturity of thirty years and bear an interest rate of 165 basis points over the 3-month LIBOR rate. The interest rate was 2.02% and 1.94% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Note 11:     Employee Benefit Plans
 
Effective January 1, 2006 the Company has adopted a 401(k) plan covering substantially all employees.  Employees may contribute a portion of their compensation (based on regulatory limitations) with the Company matching 100% of the employee’s contribution up to 4% of the employee’s compensation.  Employer contributions charged to expense for 2011 and 2010 were $144,000 and $132,000, respectively.
 
Note 12:     Income Taxes
 
The provision for income taxes includes these components:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Taxes currently payable  

  

$ 

631 

  

$ 

463 

   


Deferred income taxes  

  

176 

  

276 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Income tax expense 

  

$ 

807 

  

$ 

739 

    
 
A reconciliation of the income tax expense at the statutory rate to the Company’s actual income tax expense is shown below:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Computed at the statutory rate (34.0%)  

  

$ 

1,161 

  

$ 

1,115 

   


Tax-exempt interest  

  

(275 

) 

(270 

)  


Bank owned-life insurance  

  

(93 

) 

(99 

)  


Other  

  

14 

  

(7 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Actual tax expense  

  

$ 

807 

  

$ 

739 

    
 
105





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 12:     Income Taxes (Continued)
 
The tax effects of temporary differences related to deferred taxes shown on the balance sheets were:
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Deferred tax assets: 

  

  

  

  

   


Allowance for loan losses  

  

$ 

1,457 

  

$ 

1,280 

   


Net operating losses and tax credits t op 

  

369 

  

542 

   


Deferred gain  

  

56 

  

61 

   


Unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities    

  

— 

  

335 

   


Goodwill and core deposit  

  

1,300 

  

1,456 

   


Other real estate  

  

129 

  

109 

   


Nonqualified stock options  

  

25 

  

25 

   


Fair value adjustments related to business   combinations  

  

109 

  

104 

   


Other  

  

86 

  

41 

   


  

  

$ 

3,531 

  

$ 

3,953 

    
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Deferred tax liabilities: 

  

  

  

  

   


Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities  

  

$ 

(194 

) 

$ 

— 

   


Deferred loan fees/costs  

  

(55 

) 

(66 

)  


FHLB stock dividends  

  

(74 

) 

(74 

)  


Depreciation  

  

(199 

) 

(78 

)  


Accretion on investment securities  

  

(13 

) 

(14 

)  


Prepaid expenses  

  

(16 

) 

(37 

)  


Other  

  

(78 

) 

(7 

)  


  

  

(559 

) 

(276 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Net deferred tax asset 

  

$ 

2,973 

  

$ 

3,677 

    
 
The deferred tax asset is considered to be realizable based on our analysis of the evidence available. In performing this analysis, we consider all evidence currently available, both positive and negative, in determining whether based on the weight of that evidence, the deferred tax asset will be realized.
 
The Company does not have any beginning and ending unrecognized tax benefits. The Company does not expect the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits to significantly increase or decrease in the next twelve months. There were no interest and penalties recorded in the income statement or accrued for the year ending December 31, 2011 related to unrecognized tax benefits.
 
106





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 12:     Income Taxes (Continued)
 
The Company files a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return, Kentucky income and franchise and Tennessee income tax returns.  These returns are subject to examination by taxing authorities for all years after 2008.
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, income taxes receivable/(payable) were ($75,000 and $18,000, respectively, and are included in other assets/other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  At December 31, 2011, the Company has an AMT credit carryforward of approximately $369,000 that will not expire.
 
Note 13:     Related Party Transactions
 
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank had loans outstanding to executive officers, directors, significant stockholders and their affiliates (related parties) in the amount of $6.6 million and $8.3 million, respectively. The following table shows the activity in the loans outstanding to executive officers, directors, significant stockholders and their affiliates (related parties) during the year:
 



  

  

(Dollars in   Thousands) 

   


  

  

  

   


Beginning balance  

  

$ 

8,258 

   


New loans  

  

55 

   


Repayments  

  

(1,718 

)  


  

  

  

   


Ending balance 

  

$ 

6,595 

   






  
 
Deposits from related parties held by the Bank at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, totaled $995,000 and $540,000, respectively.
 
Amounts paid to a related party for advertising services totaled $44,000 in 2011 and $39,000 in 2010.
 
Note 14:     Stock Option Plans
 
In 2002, the Board of Directors adopted the employee stock option plan, which became effective upon the approval of the Company’s stockholders at the annual meeting in April 2003.  The purpose of the plan is to afford key employees an incentive to remain in the employee of the Company and its subsidiaries and to use their best efforts on its behalf.  132,300 shares of Company common stock have been reserved for issuance
 
107





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 14:     Stock Option Plans (Continued)
 
under the plan. 54,247 shares remain available for future issuance. Options granted expire after ten years, and vest ratably over a three year period.
 
In 2003, the Board of Directors adopted the non-employee director stock option plan for non-employee directors, which became effective upon the approval of the Company’s stockholders at the annual meeting in April 2003.  The purpose of the plan is to assist the Company in promoting a greater identity of interest between the Company’s non-employee directors and stockholders and in attracting and retaining non-employee directors by affording them an opportunity to share in the Company’s future successes. 44,100 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the plan. 31,411 shares remain available for future issuance.  Options granted expire after ten years, and are immediately vested.
 
The fair value of options granted is estimated on the date of the grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  No options were granted during 2011 and 2010. ASC 718 requires the recognition of stock-based compensation for the number of awards that are ultimately expected to vest.  For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, employee and non-employee compensation expense recorded was $0 and $0, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, there is no unrecognized compensation expense associated with stock options. A summary of the status of the plans at December 31, 2011, and changes during the period then ended is presented below:
 



  

  

2011 

   


  

  

Shares 

  

Weighted-   Average Exercise   Price 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Outstanding, beginning of year  

  

90,664 

  

$ 

15.22 

   


Granted  

  

— 

  

— 

   


Exercised  

  

— 

  

— 

   


Forfeited  

  

(1,576 

) 

$ 

15.84 

   


Expired  

  

— 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Outstanding, end of year  

  

89,088 

  

$ 

15.21 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Options exercisable, end of year  

  

89,088 

  

$ 

15.21 

    
 
All stock option shares are vested at December 31, 2011.  The weighted average remaining term for outstanding and exercisable stock options was 3.17 years at December 31, 2011.  The aggregate intrinsic value at December 31, 2011 was $0 for stock options outstanding and $0 for stock options exercisable.  The intrinsic value for stock options is calculated based on the exercise price of the underlying awards and the market price of the Company’s common stock as of the reporting date.
 
108





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 15:     Regulatory Capital Matters
 
Banks and bank holding companies are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered by federal banking agencies.  Capital adequacy guidelines and, additionally for banks, prompt corrective action regulations, involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance-sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices.  Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators.  Failure to meet capital requirements can initiate regulatory action.  Management believes as of December 31, 2011, the Company and Bank meet all capital adequacy requirements to which it is subject.
 
Prompt corrective action regulations provide five classifications:  well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized, although these terms are not used to represent overall financial condition.  If adequately capitalized, regulatory approval is required to accept brokered deposits.  If undercapitalized, capital distributions are limited, as is asset growth and expansion, and capital restoration plans are required.  At year-end 2011 and 2010, the most recent regulatory notifications categorized the Bank as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action.  There are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the institution’s category.
 
The Company’s and the Bank’s actual capital amounts and ratios are also presented in the following table.
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

Actual 

  

For Capital Adequacy   Purposes 

  

To Be Well   Capitalized   Under Prompt   Corrective   Action Provisions 

   


  

  

Amount 

  

Ratio 

  

Amount 

  

Ratio 

  

Amount 

  

Ratio 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


As of December 31, 2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total Capital (to Risk-Weighted Assets) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Consolidated  

  

$ 

40,953 

  

13.19 

% 

$ 

24,839 

  

8.0 

% 

N/A 

  

N/A 

   


Citizens First Bank, Inc.  

  

40,416 

  

13.05 

% 

24,785 

  

8.0 

% 

$ 

30,981 

  

10.0 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Tier I Capital (to Risk-Weighted Assets) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Consolidated  

  

37,072 

  

11.94 

% 

12,420 

  

4.0 

% 

N/A 

  

N/A 

   


Citizens First Bank, Inc.  

  

36,525 

  

11.79 

% 

12,392 

  

4.0 

% 

18,589 

  

6.0 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Tier I Capital (to Average Assets) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Consolidated  

  

37,072 

  

9.46 

% 

15,674 

  

4.0 

% 

N/A 

  

N/A 

   


Citizens First Bank, Inc.  

  

36,525 

  

9.32 

% 

15,674 

  

4.0 

% 

19,592 

  

5.0 

%  

















  
 
109





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 15:     Regulatory Capital Matters (Continued)
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

Actual 

  

For Capital Adequacy   Purposes 

  

To Be Well   Capitalized   Under Prompt   Corrective   Action Provisions 

   


  

  

Amount 

  

Ratio 

  

Amount 

  

Ratio 

  

Amount 

  

Ratio 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


As of December 31, 2010 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total   Capital    (to Risk-Weighted Assets) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Consolidated  

  

$ 

41,268 

  

14.57 

% 

$ 

22,664 

  

8.0 

% 

N/A 

  

N/A 

   


Citizens First Bank, Inc.  

  

37,882 

  

13.37 

% 

22,663 

  

8.0 

% 

$ 

28,3291 

  

10.0 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Tier   I Capital   (to Risk-Weighted Assets) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Consolidated  

  

37,709 

  

13.31 

% 

11,332 

  

4.0 

% 

N/A 

  

N/A 

   


Citizens First Bank, Inc.  

  

34,323 

  

12.12 

% 

11,332 

  

4.0 

% 

16,997 

  

6.0 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Tier   I Capital   (to Average Assets) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Consolidated  

  

37,709 

  

10.98 

% 

13,737 

  

4.0 

% 

N/A 

  

N/A 

   


Citizens First Bank, Inc.  

  

34,323 

  

9.99 

% 

13,737 

  

4.0 

% 

17,172 

  

5.0 

%  

















  
 
The Bank is subject to certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that it may declare without prior regulatory approval.  During a profitable year, the Bank could, without prior approval, declare dividends equal to any current and prior two years net profit retained to the date of the dividend declaration.
 
Note 16:     Loan Commitments and Other Related Activities
 
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract.  Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee.  Since a portion of the commitments may expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.  Each customer’s creditworthiness is evaluated on a case-by-case basis.  The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary, is based on management’s credit evaluation of the counterparty.  Collateral held varies, but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment, commercial real estate and residential real estate.
 
The following table outlines the contractual amounts of financial instruments (does not include standby letters of credit) with balance-sheet risk at year end, as follows:
 
110





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 16:     Loan Commitments and Other Related Activities (Continued)
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

December 31, 2011 

  

December 31, 2010 

   


  

  

Fixed Rate 

  

Variable Rate 

  

Fixed Rate 

  

Variable Rate 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Unfunded commitments to make loans and unused   lines of credit  

  

$ 

8,902 

  

$ 

27,695 

  

$ 

3,390 

  

$ 

26,260 

   














  
 
Commitments to make loans are generally made for periods of 60 days or less.  The fixed rate loan unused lines of credit have interest rates ranging from 3.0% to 21.0% and maturities ranging from 1 month to 28.4 years.
 
Standby Letters of Credit
 
Standby letters of credit are irrevocable conditional commitments issued by the Bank to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party.  Financial standby letters of credit are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, bond financing and similar transactions.  Performance standby letters of credit are issued to guarantee performance of certain customers under non-financial contractual obligations.  The credit risk involved in issuing standby letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loans to customers.  Fees for letters of credit are initially recorded by the Bank as deferred revenue and are included in earnings at the termination of the respective agreements.
 
Should the Bank be obligated to perform under the standby letters of credit, the Bank may seek recourse from the customer for reimbursement of amounts paid.
 
The Bank had total outstanding standby letters of credit amounting to $308,000 and $1.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, with terms generally of one year or less.
 
111





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 17:     Condensed Financial Information (Parent Company Only)
 
Presented below is condensed financial information as to financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company:
 
Condensed Balance Sheets
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Assets 

  

  

  

  

   


Cash  

  

$ 

203 

  

$ 

3,256 

   


Investment in Citizens First Bank, Inc.  

  

43,325 

  

39,924 

   


Other assets  

  

688 

  

477 

   


Total assets 

  

$ 

44,216 

  

$ 

43,657 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Liabilities 

  

  

  

  

   


Borrowings  

  

5,000 

  

5,000 

   


Other liabilities  

  

344 

  

348 

   


Total liabilities 

  

5,344 

  

5,348 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Stockholders’ Equity  

  

38,872 

  

38,309 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Total liabilities and   stockholders’ equity 

  

$ 

44,216 

  

$ 

43,657 

    
 
Condensed Statement of Operations
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Dividend income  

  

$ 

500 

  

$ 

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Expenses 

  

  

  

  

   


Interest expense  

  

99 

  

101 

   


Professional fees  

  

192 

  

211 

   


Other expenses  

  

110 

  

76 

   


Total expenses 

  

401 

  

388 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Loss before Income Taxes   and Equity in Undistributed Income of Subsidiary 

  

(401 

) 

(388 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Income Tax Benefit  

  

(136 

) 

(132 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Loss before Equity in   Undistributed Income of Subsidiary 

  

(265 

) 

(256 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Equity in Income of Subsidiary  

  

2,374 

  

2,795 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Net Income  

  

$ 

2,609 

  

$ 

2,539 

    
 
112





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 17:     Condensed Financial Information (Parent Company Only) (Continued)
 
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
 



  

  

(Dollars in Thousands) 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Operating Activities 

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

2,609 

  

$ 

2,539 

   


Adjustments: 

  

  

  

  

   


Equity in undistributed income of subsidiary  

  

(2,374 

) 

(2,795 

)  


Changes in: 

  

  

  

  

   


Other assets  

  

(211 

) 

14 

   


Other liabilities  

  

(4 

) 

(43 

)  


Net cash provided by   (used in) operating activities 

  

20 

  

(285 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Financing Activities 

  

  

  

  

   


Payment of dividends on stock  

  

(861 

) 

(960 

)  


Partial repayment of TARP preferred stock  

  

(2,212 

) 

— 

   


Net cash provided by   financing activities 

  

(3,073 

) 

(960 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


(Decrease) in Cash and   Cash Equivalents 

  

(3,053 

) 

(1,245 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash and Cash   Equivalents, Beginning of Year 

  

3,256 

  

4,501 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash and Cash   Equivalents, End of Year 

  

$ 

203 

  

$ 

3,256 

    
 
Note 18:     Earnings Per Common Share
 
Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income available for common shareholders by the weighted-average common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share is computed the same as basic earnings per common share, and assumes the conversion of outstanding stock options, convertible preferred stock and warrants, if dilutive.  The following table reconciles basic and diluted earnings per common share for the years ending December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
113





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 18:     Earnings Per Common Share (Continued)
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

Income 

  

Weighted   -Average   Shares 

  

Per Share   Amount 

  

Income 

  

Weighted-   Average   Shares 

  

Per   Share   Amount 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic earnings per common share 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

2,609 

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

2,539 

  

  

  

  

   


Less: Payment of dividends on preferred stock  

  

(862 

) 

  

  

  

  

(960 

) 

  

  

  

   


Less: Accretion on warrants 

  

(96 

) 

  

  

  

  

(64 

) 

  

  

  

   


Net income attributable to common shareholders  

  

1,651 

  

1,968,777 

  

$ 

0.84 

  

1,515 

  

1,968,777 

  

$ 

0.77 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Effect of dilutive securities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Warrants  

  

— 

  

74,074 

  

  

  

— 

  

58,840 

  

  

   


Preferred stock  

  

— 

  

— 

  

  

  

— 

  

— 

  

  

   


Stock options  

  

— 

  

— 

  

  

  

— 

  

— 

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Diluted earnings per common   share 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income attributable to common shareholders and   assumed conversions  

  

$ 

1,651 

  

2,042,851 

  

$ 

0.81 

  

$ 

1,515 

  

2,027,617 

  

$ 

0.75 

    
 
Stock options for 89,088 and 90,664 shares of common stock were not considered in computing diluted earnings per common share for 2011 and 2010, respectively, because they were anti-dilutive.  Convertible preferred shares are not included because they were anti-dilutive for 2011 and 2010.
 
114





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 19:     Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
Other comprehensive income (loss) components and related taxes were as follows:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale   securities  

  

$ 

1,772 

  

$ 

(194 

)  


Reclassification for realized amount included in   income  

  

(215 

) 

— 

   


Other comprehensive income (loss), before tax   effect  

  

1,557 

  

(194 

)  


Tax effect  

  

(530 

) 

66 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Other comprehensive   income (loss) 

  

$ 

1,027 

  

$ 

(128 

)   
 
The following is a summary of the accumulated other comprehensive income balances, net of tax:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance, beginning of year  

  

$ 

(651 

) 

$ 

(523 

)  


Current period change  

  

1,027 

  

(128 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance, end of year 

  

$ 

376 

  

$ 

(651 

)   
 
Note 20:     Preferred Stock and Stock Warrants
 
The Company has issued two forms of preferred stock: Series A and Cumulative preferred stock. 250 shares of our preferred stock, designated as Series A cumulative perpetual preferred stock, (“Series A preferred stock”) were issued to the U.S. Treasury on December 19, 2008, in connection with the TARP Capital Purchase Program for a purchase price of $8.8 million. On February 16, 2011, we repurchased 63 shares of the Series A preferred stock for a purchase price of $2.2 million.
 
Holders of shares of Series A preferred stock are entitled to receive if, as and when declared by our board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board, out of assets legally available for payment, cumulative cash dividends at a rate per annum of 5% per share on a liquidation preference of $35,116 per share of Series A preferred stock with respect to each dividend period from December 19, 2008 to, but excluding, December 19, 2013. From and after December 19, 2013, holders of shares of Series A preferred stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at a rate per annum of 9% per share on a liquidation preference of $35,116 per share of Series A preferred
 
115

 




Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 20:   Preferred Stock and Stock Warrants (Continued)
 
stock with respect to each dividend period thereafter. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears on each February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15, starting with February 15, 2009.  We may defer dividends under the Securities Purchase Agreement (“Purchase Agreement”) in certain circumstances.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, we may, upon prior consultation with the Company’s and the Bank’s appropriate regulatory authority, redeem the Series A preferred stock at any time. On February 16, 2011, the Company entered into a letter agreement with the United States Department of the Treasury pursuant to which the Company repurchased 63 of the 250 shares of the Series A preferred stock that the Company had issued to the Treasury on December 19, 2008 under the TARP Capital Purchase Program.  The Company paid $2.2 million to repurchase the preferred shares along with the accrued dividend for the shares repurchased.
 
The Series A preferred stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or similar provisions.  Holders of shares of Series A preferred stock have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of the Series A preferred stock.  The holders of the Series A preferred stock generally will not have any voting rights.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement we entered into with the U. S. Treasury in connection with the Capital Purchase Program, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited.  Specifically, we are unable to declare or pay dividends on our common stock or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A preferred stock.
 
The Purchase Agreement also subjects the Company to certain of the executive compensation limitations included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. In this connection, as a condition to the closing of the transaction, the Company’s Senior Executive Officers (as defined in the Purchase Agreement) voluntarily waived any claim against the U.S. Treasury or the Company for any changes to such officer’s compensation or benefits that are required to comply with the regulation issued by the U.S. Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program and acknowledged that the regulation may require modification of the compensation, bonus, incentive and other benefit plans, arrangements and policies and agreements as they relate to the period the U.S. Treasury owns the Series A preferred stock of the Company.
 
In connection with the issuance of Series A preferred stock, we issued 254,218 common stock warrants.  The initial exercise price applicable to the warrants is $5.18 per share of common stock for which the warrant may be exercised.  The warrant may be exercised at any time on or before December 19, 2018 by surrender of the warrant and the payment of the exercise price.
 
116





Table of Contents
 
Citizens First Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)
 
Note 20:   Preferred Stock and Stock Warrants (Continued)
 
The recorded value of the warrants was determined by applying a fair value discount and allocating the proceeds from the Capital Purchase Program between the preferred stock and warrants.  The discount on the preferred stock will be accreted over the contractual life of five years using an effective yield.
 
In 2004, the Company issued 250 shares of Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, stated value $31,992 per share (Cumulative Preferred Stock), for an aggregate purchase price of $7,998,000. The Cumulative Preferred Stock was sold for $31,992 per share, is entitled to quarterly cumulative dividends at an annual fixed rate of 6.5% and is convertible into shares of common stock of the Company at an initial conversion price per share of $15.50 (currently $14.06, adjusted for stock dividends) on and after three years after the date of issuance.
 
117





Table of Contents
 
Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
None.
 
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures.   We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information we are required to disclose in the reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.
 
Our management has evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of these disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report.  Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) are effective in ensuring that all material information required to be filed in this report has been made known to them in a timely fashion.
 
There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with that evaluation that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the internal control over financial reporting.
 
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our management is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report.  Management of Citizens First Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting that is designed to produce reliable financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
Management assessed the system of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, in relation to criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting as described in the report Internal Control — Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, its system of internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.
 
118





Table of Contents
 
This annual report does not include an audit report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting.  Management’s report was not subject to audit by our registered public accounting firm pursuant to exemptions for companies under rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit us to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
 
119





Table of Contents
 
Part III
 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance.
 
Certain information required by this Item appears under the headings “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” “Corporate Governance”, and “Election of Directors” and “Executive Officers” in the  Proxy Statement of the Company for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 16, 2012, and is incorporated herein by reference.  The Company has adopted a code of ethics that applies to the Company’s principal executive officer, principal financial officer and persons performing similar functions. The Company will provide to any person without charge, upon request, a copy of the Company’s code of ethics. Requests should be directed to the Secretary of Citizens First Corporation, 1065 Ashley Street, Suite 150, Bowling Green, Kentucky 42103.  The Company’s current directors and executive officers are as follows:
 
Directors of the Company
 



Name 

  

Age 

  

Occupation  


  

  

  

  

   


Barry   D. Bray 

  

66 

  

Retired;   formerly, Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of Citizens First   Corporation and Citizens First Bank  


Sarah   Glenn Grise 

  

55 

  

Civic   volunteer; formerly General Manager of TKR Cable of Southern Kentucky  


Chris   B. Guthrie 

  

45 

  

President,   Trace Die Cast, Inc.  


James   R. Hilliard 

  

55 

  

President   of Airgas Mid-America, Inc.  


M.   Todd Kanipe 

  

43 

  

President   and Chief Executive Officer of Citizens First Corporation and Citizens First   Bank  


J.   Steven Marcum 

  

55 

  

Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Citizens First Corporation and   Citizens First Bank  


Amy   Milliken 

  

40 

  

Warren   County Kentucky County Attorney  


Steve   Newberry 

  

49 

  

President   and Chief Executive Officer Commonwealth Broadcasting  


Jack   Sheidler 

  

55 

  

Chairman   of the Board of Directors of Citizens First Corporation and Citizens First   Bank: Real estate developer and owner of Greenwood Properties, Inc.  


John   M. Taylor 

  

73 

  

President,   Taylor Polson & Company, a certified public accounting firm  


Dr. Kevin   Vance 

  

48 

  

Senior   Veterinarian and President Hartland Animal Hospital   
 
120





Table of Contents
 
Executive Officers of the Company
 



Name 

  

Age 

  

Present Positions with the Company and the Bank  


  

  

  

  

   


M.   Todd Kanipe 

  

43 

  

President   and Chief Executive Officer  


  

  

  

  

   


J.   Steven Marcum 

  

55 

  

Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  


  

  

  

  

   


Marc   Lively 

  

48 

  

Executive   Vice President and Chief Credit Officer  


  

  

  

  

   


Kim   M. Thomas 

  

41 

  

Executive   Vice President, Community Banking and Private Client Group   
 
Item 11. Executive Compensation
 
The information required by this Item appears under the heading “Executive Compensation” and “Compensation of Directors” of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
Information required by this Item appears under the heading “Share Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners” of the Proxy Statement and in Item 5 of this Annual Report, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 13. Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence
 
Information required by this Item appears under the headings “Election of Directors,” and “Corporate Governance” of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 
Information required by this Item appears under the headings “Audit Committee Report” and “Ratification of the Appointment of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
121





Table of Contents
 
Part IV
 
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
 
Exhibit Index
 



3.1 

  

Restated   Articles of Incorporation of Citizens First Corporation, as amended (incorporated   by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Company’s Registration Statement on   Form SB-2 (No. 333-103238).  


  

  

   


3.2 

  

Articles   of Amendment to Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Citizens   First Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the   Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 5, 2007).  


  

  

   


3.3 

  

Articles   of Amendment to Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Citizens   First Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the   Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 23, 2008).  


  

  

   


3.4 

  

Amended   and Restated Bylaws of Citizens First Corporation (incorporated by reference   to Exhibit 3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed   March 24, 2009).  


  

  

   


4.1 

  

Restated   Articles of Incorporation of Citizens First Corporation, as amended (see   Exhibit 3.1).  


  

  

   


4.2 

  

Articles   of Amendment to Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Citizens   First Corporation (see Exhibits 3.2 and 3.3).  


  

  

   


4.3 

  

Amended   and Restated Bylaws of Citizens First Corporation (see Exhibit 3.4).  


  

  

   


4.4 

  

Copy   of Registrants’ Agreement Pursuant to Item   601(b) (4) (iii) (A) of Regulation S-K dated   March 30, 2007 with respect to certain debt instruments (incorporated by   reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Form 10K-SB dated   March 31, 2007).  


  

  

   


4.5 

  

Warrant   to Purchase Common Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of   the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 23,   2008).  


  

  

   


10.1 

  

Employment   Agreement between Citizens First Corporation and Matthew Todd Kanipe   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s   Form 8-K filed September 17, 2009).*   
 
122





Table of Contents
 



10.2 

  

2002   Stock Option Plan of Citizens First Corporation (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit 10.13 of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2   (No. 333-103238)).*  


  

  

   


10.3 

  

2003   Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit 10.14 of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2   (No. 333-103238)).*  


  

  

   


10.4 

  

Letter   Agreement (including Securities Purchase Agreement-Standard Terms) dated as   of December 19, 2008 between the Company and the United States   Department of the Treasury (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to   the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 23, 2008).  


  

  

   


10.5 

  

Form of   Waiver (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report   on Form 8-K filed on December 23, 2008).*  


  

  

   


10.6 

  

Amendment   No. 1 to 2003 Non-Employee Stock Option Plan of Citizens First   Corporation. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of the   Registrant’s Form 10-K dated December 31, 2008).*  


  

  

   


10.7 

  

Separation   Agreement and General Release dated April 22, 2009 between the   Registrant and Mary D. Cohron (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1   of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q dated June 30, 2009).*  


  

  

   


10.8 

  

Employment   Agreement between Citizens First Corporation and John Steven Marcum   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of the Registrant’s Form 8-K   filed April 15, 2010).*  


  

  

   


10.9 

  

Repurchase   Agreement between Citizens First Corporation and United States Department of   the Treasury.*  


  

  

   


10.10 

  

Branch   Purchase and Assumption Agreement between Republic Bank and Trust Company   and   Citizens First Bank, Inc.   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q   dated June 30, 2011).  


  

  

   


21 

  

Subsidiaries   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 21 of the Registrant’s   Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-103238)).  


  

  

   


23.1 

  

Consent   of Crowe Horwath LLP.  


  

  

   


31.1 

  

Certification   of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley   Act.  


  

  

   


31.2 

  

Certification   of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the   Sarbanes-Oxley Act.   
 
123





Table of Contents
 



32.1 

  

Certification   of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.  


  

  

   


32.2 

  

Certification   of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.  


  

  

   


99.1 

  

TARP   Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant   to IFR Section 30.15.  


  

  

   


101 

  

Interactive   data files: (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and December   31, 2010, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended   December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of   Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31,   2010, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December   31, 2011 and 2010, and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.**   
 

*Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
 
**Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the interactive data files on Exhibit 101 hereto are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under these sections.
 
124





Table of Contents
 
Signatures
 
In accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 



  

Citizens   First Corporation  


  

   


  

   


Date:   March 30, 2012 

By:    

/s/ 

M.   Todd Kanipe  


  

  

  

M.   Todd Kanipe  


  

  

  

President   and Chief Executive Officer   
 
 
In accordance with the Exchange Act, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
 



/s/   M Todd Kanipe  

  

March 30, 2012  


M. Todd Kanipe 

  

   


President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

  

   


  

  

   


  

  

   


/s/ J. Steven Marcum  

  

March 30, 2012  


J. Steven Marcum 

  

   


Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Director 

  

    
 
125





Table of Contents
 



/s/Barry   D. Bray  

  

March 30, 2012  


Barry D. Bray, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


  

  

   


/s/Sarah   G. Grise  

  

March 30, 2012  


Sarah G. Grise, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


  

  

   


/s/Christopher   B. Guthrie  

  

March 30, 2012  


Christopher B. Guthrie, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


  

  

   


/s/J.   Robert Hilliard  

  

March 30, 2012  


J. Robert Hilliard, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


/s/M.   Todd Kanipe  

  

March 30, 2012  


M. Todd Kanipe, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


/s/Amy   H. Milliken  

  

March 30, 2012  


Amy Milliken, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


  

  

   


/s/Steven   W. Newberry  

  

March 30, 2012  


Steven W. Newberry, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


  

  

   


/s/Jack   W. Sheidler  

  

March 30, 2012  


Jack W. Sheidler, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


  

  

   


/s/John   M. Taylor  

  

March 30, 2012  


John Taylor, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


  

  

   


/s/R.   Kevin Vance  

  

March 30, 2012  


R. Kevin Vance, Director 

  

   


  

  

   


  

  

   


/s/J.   Steven Marcum  

  

March 30, 2012  


J. Steven Marcum, Director 

  

    
 
126







