
10-K
1
v302411_10k.htm
FORM 10-K






 

 
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

xANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

OR
  


¨TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from to
Commission File No. 1-15339
Chemtura Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


Delaware
52-2183153

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

 
 

1818 Market Street, Suite 3700, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
199 Benson Road, Middlebury, Connecticut

19103
06749

(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)

 
Registrant's
telephone number, including area code: (203) 573-2000
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act: 
 


 
Title of each class
Name of each exchange on which registered

 
 
 

 
Common Stock, $0.01 par value
New York Stock Exchange

 
 
 

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
NONE

  
Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.	Yes x
No ¨
 
Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.	Yes ¨
No x
 
Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.                                                                       Yes
x   No
¨
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).             Yes
x No ¨
 
Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definition of “accelerated
filer,” “large accelerated file” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check off):
 


Large accelerated filer x
Accelerated filer ¨
Non-accelerated filer ¨
Smaller reporting company ¨

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

 

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨   No
x
  
The aggregate market value of the voting and
non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed as of June 30, 2011, based on the value of the closing
price of these shares as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange was $1.8 billion.
 
The number of voting shares of Common Stock
of the registrant outstanding as of January 31, 2012 was 96.3 million.
 
Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant has filed all documents and reports required to be filed by Section 12, 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 subsequent to the distribution of securities under a plan confirmed by a court. Yes x
No ¨
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Portions of the Proxy Statement to be delivered
to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 10, 2012 are incorporated by reference
into Part III.
 

 
 

 



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGES

 
 

PART I
2

 
 

Item 1: Business
2

 
 

Item 1A: Risk Factors
15

 
 

Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments
24

 
 

Item 2: Properties
24

 
 

Item 3: Legal Proceedings
26

 
 

Item 4: (Removed and reserved)
26

 
 

PART II
27

 
 

Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
27

 
 

Item 6: Selected Financial Data
29

 
 

Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
31

 
 

Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
54

 
 

Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
55

 
 

Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
112

 
 

Item 9A: Controls and Procedures
112

 
 

Item 9B: Other Information
112

 
 

PART III
113

 
 

Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
113

 
 

Item 11: Executive Compensation
114

 
 

Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
114

 
 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
114

 
 

Item 14: Principal Accountant Fees and Services
114

 
 

PART IV
115

 
 

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
115

 
 

SIGNATURES
118


 

1
 

 
Note About Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical
information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results,
and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including without limitation, the following
sections: “Business”, “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” These
forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “expect,”
“anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,”
“plan,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “will be,” “will
continue,” “will likely result,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations
and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking
statements. A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from
such forward-looking statements is included in the section entitled “Risk Factors” (See Part I, Item 1A of this
Form 10-K). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events, or otherwise.
 
PART I
 
Item 1: Business
 
When we use the terms “Corporation,” “Company,”
“Chemtura,” “Registrant,” “We,” “Us” and “Our,” unless otherwise indicated
or the context otherwise requires, we are referring to Chemtura Corporation and our consolidated subsidiaries.
 
General
 
We are a leading diversified global developer, manufacturer and
marketer of performance-driven engineered specialty chemicals. Most of our products are sold to industrial manufacturing customers
for use as additives, ingredients or intermediates that add value to their end products. Our agrochemical products are sold through
dealers and distributors to growers and others. Our pool, spa and household chemical products are sold through local dealers, large
retailers, independent retailers and mass merchants to consumers for in-home and outdoor use. Our operations are located in North
America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. In addition, we have important joint ventures primarily in the United States and the Middle
East, but also in Asia and Europe. We are committed to global sustainability through “greener technology” and developing
engineered chemical solutions that meet our customers’ evolving needs. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our global net
sales were $3 billion. As of December 31, 2011, our global total assets were $2.9 billion.
 
We are the successor to Crompton & Knowles Corporation
(“Crompton & Knowles”), which was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1900 and engaged in the manufacture and
sale of specialty chemicals beginning in 1954. Crompton & Knowles traces its roots to Crompton Loom Works incorporated
in the 1840s. We expanded our specialty chemical business through acquisitions in the United States and Europe, including the 1996
acquisition of Uniroyal Chemical Company, Inc., the 1999 merger with Witco Corporation and the 2005 acquisition of Great Lakes
Chemical Company, Inc. (“Great Lakes”).
 
Our principal executive offices are located at 1818 Market Street,
Suite 3700, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 and at 199 Benson Road, Middlebury, Connecticut 06749. Our telephone number in Connecticut
is (203) 573-2000. Our internet website address is www.chemtura.com. We make available free of charge on or through our internet
website (www.chemtura.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments
to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Our Corporate Governance
Principles, Code of Business Conduct and charters for our Audit, Compensation, Nominating & Governance, Finance & Pension
and Environmental, Health & Safety Committees are available on our website and free of charge to any stockholder who requests
them from the Corporate Secretary at Chemtura Corporation, 199 Benson Road, Middlebury, CT 06749. The information contained on
our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered a part of this Annual
Report.
 

2
 

 
OUR COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS
 
We believe our key competitive strengths are: 

 

·Our Key Businesses Have Industry Leading Positions: Many of
our key businesses and products hold leading positions within the various industries they serve. We believe our scale and global
reach in product development and marketing provide us with advantages over many of our smaller competitors.

  


Operating Segment
 
Business Component
 
Industry Position / Commentary
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Industrial Performance Products
 
Petroleum Additives
 

• Global manufacturer and marketer of high-performance lubricant
        additive components and synthetic lubricant base-stocks and synthetic finished fluids
 
• A world leader in high-performing calcium sulfonate specialty
        greases and phosphate and polyol ester based fluids
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Urethanes
 
• A global leader in the development and production of  hot cast elastomer pre-polymers
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Plastic Antioxidants
 
• A global leader in the development and production of  additives for polyolefin and other engineered plastics
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Industrial Engineered Products
 
Great Lakes Solutions
 
• One of the three largest developers and manufacturers of bromine and bromine-based products
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Organometallics
 
• One of the three largest developers and manufacturers of organometallic compounds, that have applications in catalysts, surface treatment and pharmaceuticals
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Consumer Products
 
Consumer Products
 
• One of the two largest global marketers and sellers of recreational water products used in pools and spas
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Chemtura AgroSolutions
 

Chemtura
AgroSolutions
 
• A leading niche developer and manufacturer of seed treatments, fungicides, miticides, insecticides, growth regulants and herbicides
 


 



•Broad Diversified Business:
 

•Geographic diversity. Our worldwide manufacturing, sales and marketing network enables us to serve the needs
of both local and global customers worldwide. As of December 31, 2011, we operated 31 manufacturing facilities in 14 countries.
For the year ended December 31, 2011, 45% of our net sales were generated in the United States and Canada, 30% from Europe
and Africa, 20% from Asia/Pacific and 5% from Latin America. We market and sell our products in more than 100 countries, providing
the opportunity to develop new markets for our products in higher-growth regions. We have built upon our historical strength in
the United States and Europe to expand our business geographically, thereby diversifying our exposure to many different economies.
  

3
 

 
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
 



 

•Product and industry diversity. We are comprised of a number of distinct businesses, each of which is impacted by varied
industry trends. Additionally, our business portfolio serves diverse industries and applications, thereby providing us with further
diversification.
 

•Diversified customer base. We have a large and diverse global customer base in a broad array of industries. No single
customer comprises more than ten percent of our consolidated 2011 net sales.
 

•Unique Industry Positions: We believe our businesses possess significant differentiation within their respective industry
segments. Some of our businesses are vertically integrated into key feedstocks and others have strong brand recognition, long lead
time product registrations or technical and formulatory know-how. We believe these attributes are difficult to replicate and allow
us to attract customers looking for consistent performance, reliability and cost-effective results, and are distinct competitive
advantages. Examples include:
 

•Our Industrial Engineered Products segment has extensive brine fields in Arkansas from which we extract brine to produce bromine,
which is used as a building block for products such as flame retardants.
 

•Our Industrial Performance Products segment participates in a production joint venture that produces cost competitive alkylated
diphenylamine, a building block for our Naugalube® antioxidants used in lubricants.
This segment also develops urethanes, the production of which is enhanced by our technical and formulatory know-how that permits
us to engineer our products to meet specific customer needs and antioxidants, for which we are the only producer of such products
in the Middle East, allowing us to offer superior service and security of supply to the region’s fast-growing polyolefin
industry.
 

•Our Consumer Products segment benefits from well-established brand names as well as registrations and proprietary products.
 

•Our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment is well experienced in obtaining the required registrations for its products in each country
in which they are sold. Once obtained, these registrations provide an exclusive right to use the active compound upon which the
product is based for the specified crop in that country or region for a number of years.
 

4
 

 

•Well Positioned to Grow in Emerging Markets: Our businesses’ product portfolios have positioned us to benefit
from high growth regions in the future. We derived 25% of our revenues during 2011 from key high growth regions including Asia/Pacific
and Latin America. We will continue to invest in faster growing regions as their polymer production increases, their manufacturing
of electronic products expands, their automotive industries build vehicles that meet emission standards such that they can be exported
to western markets, and their growers seek to increase the exports of their produce. There are a limited number of suppliers that
can supply the products or provide the technical support that customers in these regions require, giving us the opportunity to
capture this growth in demand for our products. Additionally, we are strongly positioned to supply the polyolefin industry in the
Middle East through our antioxidants joint ventures in Saudi Arabia. We are negotiating strategies to supply organometallic products
in Saudi Arabia which produces components for polymerization catalysts in the region. We also participate in a joint venture within
Asia that produces polymer antioxidants and inaugurated a joint venture in Korea with UP Chemicals for the regional manufacturing
of high purity organometallics serving the optoelectronic industry for the production of light emitting diodes (“LEDs”).
 

•Focused, Experienced Management Team: We are led by Craig A. Rogerson, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
Mr. Rogerson holds a chemical engineering degree from Michigan State University and has over 32 years of operating and leadership
experience in the specialty chemicals industry. Mr. Rogerson is supported by a senior management team that has extensive operational
and financial experience in the specialty chemicals industry. Our senior management team is focused on creating a culture of performance
and accountability that can leverage the global economic recovery and the long-term trends in the industries we serve to drive
profitable revenue growth. For more information on our executive officers, see Item 10, Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance.
 
Our Strategy
 
Our primary goal is to create value for our stakeholders by driving
profitable revenue growth while continuing to manage our costs. We will develop and engineer new products and processes, exploit
our global scale for regional growth and manage our portfolio of specialty chemical businesses. Our efforts are directed by the
following key business strategies:
 

·Technology-Driven Growth through Industry Focused Innovation.
As a specialty chemical developer and manufacturer, our competitive strength lies in continually developing and engineering new
products and processes that meet our customers’ changing needs. We are investing in innovation to strengthen our new product
pipelines and will license or acquire technologies to supplement these initiatives. We focus on the development of products that
are sustainable, meet ecological concerns and capitalize on growth trends in the industries we serve.
 

·Growth Expansion in Faster-Growing Regions through Building Global
Scale. We are building our local presence in the faster growing regions through sales representation, technical development
centers, joint ventures and local manufacturing. We empower our regional teams to serve their growing customer base and will supplement
these efforts through “bolt-on” acquisitions that fulfill our goals for our portfolio. We exploit our global scale
by sharing service functions and technologies that no one region or business could replicate on its own while utilizing our regional
presence to lower raw material costs.
 

·Performance-Driven Culture. We believe we have outstanding
people who can deliver superior performance under strong, experienced leaders who instill a culture of accountability. We expect
accountability on safety, environmental stewardship, compliance with laws, customer commitments and performance. We are focused
on understanding the needs of our customers and meeting such needs by efficiently executing their orders and delivering technology
based solutions that meet their requirements to earn the position as their preferred supplier. We measure our performance against
benchmarks and metrics using statistical analysis and drive operational excellence through continuous improvement.
 

·Portfolio and Cost Management. We will continue to actively
manage our portfolio of global specialty chemical businesses to maximize their value. We are intent on creating a focused portfolio
of global specialty chemical businesses with sustainable competitive advantages and growth that serve the electronics and energy,
transportation, and agriculture industries. Leveraging global demographic and technology trends and our in-depth knowledge and
expertise that provide us with the “right to play” in these industries, we will drive value-accreting growth fueled
by our focus on innovation and the faster growing regions. As we build this portfolio we will continue to increase the differentiation
of our products while pruning or exiting underperforming products and managing costs. 
 

5
 

 
Our Business
and Segments
 
Information as to the sales,
operating income, depreciation and amortization, assets, capital expenditures and earnings on investments carried on the equity
method attributable to each of our business segments during each of our last three fiscal years, as well as certain geographic
information, is set forth in Note 20 - Business Segments in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The table below illustrates each segment’s net sales for the
year ended December 31, 2011 as well as each segment’s major products, end-use markets and brands.
 


 
 
Industrial 
 
Industrial
 
Consumer
 
Chemtura

 
 
Performance Products
 
Engineered Products
 
Products
 
ArgoSolutions

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2011 Net Sales
 
$1,358 million
 
$869 million
 
$422 million
 
$376 million

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Key Products
 

•  Synthetic Lubricants
•  Lubricant Additives
•  Urethanes
•  Antioxidants
•  UV Stabilizers
•  Rubber Additives

 

•  Brominated Performance
        Products
•  Flame Retardants
•  Fumigants
•  Organometallics
 
 

•  Swimming Pool & Spa
        Chemicals
•  Cleaning Products
 

•  Seed Treatment
•  Fungicides
•  Miticides
•  Insecticides
•  Growth Regulants
•  Herbicides


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Major End-Use Markets
 

•  Adhesives
•  Automotive
•  Building and Construction
•  Coatings
•  Consumer Products
•  Engine and Gear Oils
•  Industrial Oils and Greases
•  Lubricants
•  Packaging
•  Sealants
 
 

•  Agriculture
•  Automotive
•  Biocides
•  Building and Construction
•  Coatings
•  Consumer Durables
•  Electronics
•  Fine Chemical
•  Pharmaceuticals
•  Energy
o    Mercury Control
o    Oilfield
o    Solar
•  Paints and Polymers

 

•  Cleaners
•  Pools and Spas
 
 

•  Agriculture
•  Public and Animal Health
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Key Brands
 

Adiprene Duracast®
Adiprene®
Anderol®
Anox®
Durad®
Fomrez®
Hatcol®
Hybase®
Lobase®
Lowilite™
Lowinox®
Naugalube®
Naugard®
Polybond®
Reolube™
Royaltuf®
Royco®
Synton®
Trixene®
Ultranox®
Vibrathane®
Weston®
Witcobond®
 

AXION®
Emerald™
Firemaster®
Fyrebloc®
GeoBrom®
Kronitex®
Ongard®
Pyrobloc®
Reofos®
Smokebloc®
Thermoguard®
Timonox®
 
 

Aqua Chem®
BAYROL®
BioGuard®
Cristal™
Greased Lightning®
Miami™
Mineral Springs®
Omni®
Pool Time®
Pool Essential®
Poolbrite®
ProGuard®
Spa Essentials®
SpaGuard™
SpaTime®
Sun®
The Works®
 

Acramite® Royal MH-30™
Anchor™ Royaltac®
Blizzard® Signal®
B-Nine® Starmite®
Casoron® Temprano®
Comite® Terraguard®
Dimilin® Terramaster®
Elastic® Vitavax®
Enhance® Viticure®
Firestorm®
Floramite®
Flupro™
Grain Guard®
Micromite®
Moolah®
Off-Shoot T®
Omite®
Pantera™
Panarex®
Percutio®
ProCure®
Rancona®
Rimon®

 

6
 

 
Industrial Performance Products
 
The Industrial Performance Products segment develops, manufactures
and sells performance specialty chemicals. Industrial Performance Products include:
 

·petroleum additives that provide detergency, friction modification
and corrosion protection in automotive and industrial lubricants and greases, synthetic finished lubricants, synthetic base-stocks
and greases used in aviation, industrial and refrigeration applications;

·castable urethane pre-polymers engineered to provide superior abrasion
resistance and durability in many industrial and recreational applications; 

·polyurethane dispersions and urethane pre-polymers used in various
types of coatings such as wood floor finishes, glass fiber coatings and textile treatments; 

·plastic antioxidants additives that inhibit the degradation of polymers
caused by air and heat during manufacture and use; 

·UV stabilizers additives that protect materials against the harmful
effects of UV light; and 


·rubber additives products that protect elastomers and rubber compounds
such as tires from cracking and deteriorating from exposure to ozone as well as providing resistance to oxygen and heat degradation.
 
These products are sold directly to manufacturers through distribution
channels.
 
The Industrial Performance Products segment had net sales of $1,358
million for 2011, $1,223 million for 2010 and $999 million for 2009. This segment represented 45%, 44% and 43% of our total net
sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The major product offerings of this segment are described below.
 
Petroleum Additives
 
We are a global manufacturer and marketer of high-performance additive
components used in transport and industrial lubricant applications including alkylated diphenylamines antioxidants (“ADPAs”),
which are marketed as Naugalube® and used predominately in automotive lubricants. These additives play a critical role in meeting
rising regulatory mandated standards for engine performance and emissions as well as consumer demand for improved gas mileage and
longer service intervals. The component product line also includes overbased and neutral calcium sulfonates and overbased magnesium
sulfonates used in motor oils and marine lubricants. These sulfonates, marketed as Hybase® and Lobase®, are oil-soluble
surfactants whose properties include detergency and corrosion protection to help lubricants keep car, truck, and ship engines clean
with minimal wear. A special grade of overbased magnesium sulfonate has been developed as a heavy fuel additive.
 
We provide a variety of highly specialized, high value synthetic
lubricant base-stocks including our high-viscosity polyalphaolefins, marketed as Synton®, and our broad portfolio of esters
marketed as Hatcol®. These products are used in the production of synthetic lubricants for automotive, refrigeration, aviation,
and industrial applications. We also manufacture and sell high performing calcium sulfonate specialty greases and phosphate ester
based fluids and additives for power generation fluids and for use in anti-wear agents in a variety of lubricants.
 
We are also a specialty supplier of high performance finished synthetic
lubricants serving the aviation and industrial markets. Our product line has extensive original equipment manufacturer approvals
and is marketed under our Anderol® and Royco® brands as well as for private label customers.
 
On July 30, 2010, we completed the sale of our natural sodium sulfonates
and oxidized petrolatum product lines within our petroleum additives business to Sonneborn Inc., an affiliate of private investment
firm Sun Capital Partners, Inc.
 
Urethanes
 
We are a leading supplier of high-performance cast urethane pre-polymers
with more than 200 variations in our product offerings. Our urethane pre-polymers offer high abrasion resistance and durability
in industrial and performance-specific applications. These characteristics allow us to market our urethane pre-polymers to niche
manufacturers where such qualities are imperative, including for industrial and printing rolls, mining machinery and equipment,
mechanical goods, solid industrial tires and wheels, and sporting and recreational goods, including skateboard and roller skate
wheels.
 

7
 

 
Adiprene ® and Vibrathane® urethane pre-polymers are sold
by our direct sales force and through distribution partners in the United States, Canada, Australia, Europe, Latin America and
the Far East, and are used in cast elastomer applications where durability and chemical resistance is required. Our products are
used in applications as diverse as polishing pads for the semiconductor industry to high performance screens for the mining industry.
Customers in each region are serviced by a dedicated technical staff whose support is a critical component of the product offering.
We believe the relatively low capital requirements of this business provide us with the ability to operate cost effectively. Lastly,
our development capabilities allow us to differentiate ourselves in these markets by tailoring our products to the specialized
needs of each customer application, which sets us apart from our competitors.
 
Our urethane chemicals business provides products for a variety
of end uses and applications. The urethane chemicals business consists primarily of three product lines: Fomrez® saturated
polyester polyols, Witcobond® polyurethane dispersions, and Trixene® blocked isocyanates. Fomrez® polyester polyols
are employed in industrial applications such as flexible foam for seating. Our Witcobond® polyurethane dispersions are sold
to a larger and more diverse customer base primarily for applications such as glass fiber sizing, wood floor coatings and ballistics
protection applications. Our Trixene® product offering includes blocked isocyanates and specialty polymer systems used in a
wide range of coating, adhesive, sealant and elastomer applications. Our focus on customer intimacy in the urethane chemicals business
enables us to tailor specific product offerings to meet our customers’ most demanding application requirements.
 
Antioxidants
 
Our antioxidants and UV stabilizer business is comprised of five
product families which operate from worldwide manufacturing facilities to meet the needs of the large global petrochemical producers
as well as regional compounders. We are one of the world’s largest suppliers of plastic antioxidants. These additives enables
today’s producers of polymers and polymer parts to withstand the requirements of the most demanding processing equipment
and end user applications. Our UV stabilizers additives are used to protect polymers against the harmful effects of UV light. Applications
include agricultural films, automotive coatings and photovoltaic films. The rubber additives products protect elastomers and rubber
compounds such as tires from cracking and deteriorating from exposure to ozone as well as providing resistance to oxygen and heat
degradation. Our inhibitors prevent polymerization in production of certain monomers enabling our customers to operate their plants
efficiently and safely. The polymer modifier products are used as coupling agents and impact modifiers for polymers (and increasingly
bioplastics) for use in engineering applications in markets such as automotive and building and construction. Incorporating such
additives into resin systems improves the durability and longevity of plastics used in packaging, consumer durables, automotive
parts and electrical components. Through our proprietary technology, we are able to offer “powder free” solutions so
our customers can avoid the hazards of working with powders in a chemical environment. At the same time, we are proficient in blending
a variety of these materials into specialized formulations uniquely tailored to customer specific end-use requirements.
 
Industrial Engineered Products
 
We are a global leader in manufacturing and selling of engineered
specialty chemicals utilized in the plastics, agriculture, fine chemicals, oil and gas, building and construction, electronics,
mercury control, solar energy, pharmaceutical and automotive industries. Our products include flame retardants, bromine and bromine
intermediates, catalyst components, fumigants, surface treatments and completion fluids for oil and gas extraction. These products
are sold across the entire value chain ranging from direct sales to monomer producers, polymer manufacturers, compounders and fabricators,
fine chemical and pharmaceutical manufacturers, photovoltaic panel and LED producers and oilfield service companies to industry
distributors.
 
The Industrial Engineered Products segment had net sales of $869
million for 2011, $728 million for 2010 and $512 million for 2009. This segment represented 29%, 26% and 22% of our total net sales
in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The major product offerings of this segment are described below.
 
Great Lakes Solutions
 
Great Lakes Solutions is a global and innovative leader in safe
and cost-efficient flame retardant products and solutions for use in applications such as electronic components, electrical enclosures
and building products, including insulation and furniture foam, and automotive. We also specialize in the manufacture and marketing
of bromine, bromide intermediates and end products to chemical manufacturing and energy producing industries.
 

8
 

 
Great Lakes Solutions is committed to greener innovation targeting
consumer electronics, furniture foam, more energy-efficient thermal insulation and the power industry. Great Lakes Solutions Emerald™
series of flame retardants is the result of our dedication to providing products that are innovative and reliable and also minimize
the impact on the environment and human health without sacrificing performance or quality. Our GeoBrom®
line of bromine and bromine derivative products is another example of greener innovation where we deploy our technology expertise
to provide a solution to reducing mercury emissions from coal-fired power stations.
 
With sales, technology and manufacturing on three continents, Great
Lakes Solutions is truly a global business with expanding footprint and services. Through our strategic geographic and operational
initiatives, we have significantly expanded our ISO fleet capabilities. We are backwardly integrated to brine, a primary source
of bromine and during 2009 to 2011 we invested approximately $100 million in infrastructure to increase the efficiency and reliability
of our plants and pipelines. We are well positioned to support not only growth of our traditional industry segments but also to
provide security of supply with expansion capability to our mercury control customers.
 
Fire kills thousands of people each year throughout the world, but
many are spared because fires are slowed or never start due to the use of flame retardants. Great Lakes Solutions works tirelessly
to advocate for increased fire safety standards in new and developing economies. Our operational excellence strategic initiatives
in both North America and India will bring an improved, robust, cost-competitive and service-oriented footprint closer to our global
customers.
 
Great Lakes Solutions is dedicated to providing bromine and phosphorus
flame retardants and brominated performance products that are the most innovative and reliable. For close to a century, we have
helped our customers to meet their current and future performance, safety and compliance requirements by refining and redefining
our portfolio with new and improved products that maximize sustainability needs with a broad portfolio of products and solutions.
 
Organometallics
 
Organometallics are a special group of metals containing organic
chemicals which play a significant role in a variety of industrial applications. Organometallics are essential components used
to initiate the polymerization reactions that transform monomers into polymers. They are also used as precursors in glass coatings,
in the production of semiconductors, LEDs and photovoltaic panels, as well as for the production of many pharmaceutical ingredients
and as catalysts for curing certain paints and polymers.
 
Consumer Products
 
The Consumer Products segment develops, manufactures and sells performance
chemicals to consumers for in-home and outdoor use. These chemicals include recreational water purification products sold under
a variety of branded labels through local dealers and large retailers to assist consumers in the maintenance of their swimming
pools and spas and branded cleaners and degreasers sold primarily through mass merchants to consumers for home cleaning.
 
Our pool and spa product lines consist of sanitizers, algaecides,
biocides, oxidizers, pH balancers, mineral balancers and other specialty chemicals and accessories. Our primary channels of distribution
are pool and spa dealers and mass-market retailers throughout North America, Europe, Australia and South Africa. We hold leading
positions in both the North American and European pool and spa chemical markets and we plan to strengthen our position by expanding
our dealer channels and presence with leading mass market retailers.
 
We also operate in the specialty and multi-purpose cleaners business
with branded non-abrasive bathroom cleaners, glass and surface cleaners, toilet bowl cleaners, drain openers and rust and calcium
removers, as well as a family of multipurpose cleaners. Our primary channels of distribution for specialty and multi-purpose cleaning
products are through major national and regional retailers in the do-it-yourself, hardware, mass market, club and discount sectors.
 
The Consumer Products segment had net sales of $422 million for
2011, $458 million for 2010 and $457 million for 2009. This segment represented 14%, 17% and 20% of our total net sales in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively.
 

9
 

 
Chemtura AgroSolutions
 
The Chemtura AgroSolutions segment focuses on specific target applications
in six major product lines which include seed treatments, fungicides, miticides, insecticides, growth regulants and herbicides.
We have developed our products for use on high-value target crops such as tree and vine fruits, ornamentals and nuts and for commodity
row crops such as soybeans, oilseed rape and corn. Our dedicated sales force works with growers and distributors to promote the
use of our products throughout a crop’s growth cycle and to address selective regional, climate, and growth opportunities.
We expand our presence in worldwide targeted markets by developing or acquiring crop protection products and obtaining registrations
for new uses and geographies where demand for our products and services has potential for growth. Our expertise in registering
our product offerings and our diverse global position differentiates us from our competitors. We develop and sell our own products
and we also sell and register products manufactured by others on a license and/or resale basis.
 
Our seed treatments are used to coat seeds in order to protect the
seed during germination and initial growth phases. Seed treatment is an environmentally attractive form of crop protection involving
localized use of agricultural chemicals at much lower use rates than other (foliar) agrichemical treatments. We anticipate growth
in seed treatment resulting from the expanded use of higher value genetically modified seed.
 
Our fungicides are products that prevent the spread of fungi or
plants in crops which can cause damage resulting in loss of yield and profit for growers. Our miticides (acaricides) are products
that control a variety of mite pests on the crops. Our insecticides are products used against insect pests at different stages
of the life cycle from egg and larvae to nymph and adult. They have both crop and public health applications. Our plant growth
regulators are products used for controlling or modifying plant growth processes without severe phytotoxicity. Our herbicides are
products used to control unwanted plants while leaving the crops they are targeted to treat relatively unharmed.
 
We work closely with our customers, distributors, and individual
growers as part of an on-the-ground coordinated effort. We develop products in response to ongoing customer demands, drawing upon
existing technologies and tailoring them to match immediate needs. For example, a grower’s crops may require varying levels
of treatment depending on weather conditions and the degree of infestation. Our research and technology is therefore geared towards
responding to threats to crops around the world as they emerge under a variety of conditions.
 
We benefit from nearly 50 years of experience in the field, along
with over 2,000 product registrations in more than 100 countries. Our experience with registering products is a valuable asset,
as registration is a significant barrier to entry, particularly in developed countries. Registration of products is a complex process
in which we have developed proficiency over time. The breadth of our distribution network and the depth of our experience enable
us to focus on profitable applications that have been less sensitive to competitive pricing pressures than broad commodity segments.
This position allows us to attract licensing and resale opportunities from partner companies providing us new products and technologies
to accompany our own existing chemistries.
 
We sell our products in North America through a distribution network
consisting of more than 500 distributor outlets that sell directly to end use customers. Internationally, our direct sales force
services over 2,500 distributors, dealers, cooperatives, seed companies and large growers.
 
The Chemtura AgroSolutions segment had net sales of $376
million for 2011, $351 million for 2010 and $332 million for 2009. This segment represented 12%, 13% and 14% of our total net sales
in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Sources of Raw Materials
 
Hydrocarbon-based and inorganic chemicals constitute the majority
of the raw materials required to manufacture our products. These materials are generally available from a number of sources, some
of which are foreign. We use significant amounts of chemicals derived from ethylene, propylene, benzene, iso-butane, palm and coconut
oil, methanol, phosphorus and urea. In addition, chlorine, caustic, other petrochemicals and tin represent some key materials used
in our chemical manufacturing processes. Major requirements for key raw materials are purchased typically pursuant to multi-year
contracts. Large increases in the cost of such key raw materials, as well as natural gas, which powers some key production facilities,
could adversely affect our operating margins if we are not able to pass the higher costs on to our customers through higher selling
prices. While temporary shortages of raw materials we use may occur occasionally, key raw materials have generally been available.
However, there can be no assurance that unforeseen developments (including markets, political and regulatory conditions) will not
affect our raw material supplies, their continuing availability and their cost. For additional information related to these risks,
see Item 1A. - Risk Factors.
 

10
 

 
Seasonal Business
 
With the exception of the Chemtura AgroSolutions segment and the
pool and spa product line in our Consumer Products segment, no material portion of any segment of our business is significantly
seasonal. Our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment is seasonal in nature and corresponds to agricultural cycles within each respective
region. Similarly, in the Consumer Products segment, approximately 85% of net sales are generated from our recreational water products
business serving the North American and European regions. These markets generally record higher sales in the second and third quarters
of each year.
 
Employees
 
We had approximately 4,500 full time employees at December 31, 2011.
 
Backlog 
 
We do not consider backlog to be a significant indicator of the
level of future sales activity. In general, we do not manufacture our products against a backlog of orders. Production and inventory
levels are based on the level of incoming orders as well as projections of future demand. Therefore, we believe that backlog information
is not material to understanding our overall business and should not be considered a reliable indicator of our ability to achieve
any particular level of sales or financial performance.
 
Competitive Conditions
 
The breadth of our product offering provides multiple channels for
growth and mitigates our dependence on any one market or end-use application. We sell our products in more than 100 countries.
This worldwide presence reduces our exposure to any one country’s or region’s economy although a majority of our sales
are in North America and Europe.
 
We have a broad customer base and believe that our products, many
of which we customize for the specific needs of our customers, allow us to enhance customer loyalty and attract customers that
value product innovation and reliable supply.
 
Product performance, quality, price, and technical and customer
service are all important factors in competing in substantially all of our businesses.
 
We face significant competition in many of the industries in which
we operate due to the trends toward global expansion and consolidation by competitors. Some of our existing competitors are larger
than we are and may have more resources and better access to capital markets for continued expansion or new product development
than we do. Some of our competitors also have a greater product range, are more vertically integrated or have better distribution
capability than we do for specific products or geographical areas.
 
Research and Development
 
All of our businesses conduct research and development activities
to increase competitiveness. Our businesses conduct research and development activities to develop new and to optimize existing
production technologies, as well as to develop commercially viable new products and applications while also maintaining existing
product registrations required by regulatory agencies around the world. Our research and development expenditures totaled $43 million
in 2011, $42 million in 2010 and $35 million in 2009.
 
Intellectual Property and Licenses
 
We attach great importance
to patents, trademarks, copyrights and product designs in order to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing
and marketing. Our policy is to seek wide protection for significant products and process developments on our major applications.
We also seek to register trademarks extensively as a means of protecting the brand names of our products.
 

11
 

 
We have approximately 2,200
United States and foreign granted patents and pending patent applications and approximately 4,400 United States and foreign registered
and pending trademarks. Patents, trademarks, trade secrets in the nature of know-how, formulations, and manufacturing techniques
assist us in maintaining the competitive position of certain of our products. Our intellectual property is of particular importance
to a number of specialty chemicals we manufacture and sell. However, we do business in countries where protection may be limited
and difficult to enforce. We are licensed to use certain patents and technology owned by other companies, including some foreign
companies, to manufacture products complementary to our own products, for which we pay royalties in amounts not considered material,
in the aggregate, to our consolidated results. Products to which we have such rights include certain crop protection chemicals.
 
Neither our business as
a whole nor any particular segment is materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret.
 
Emergence from Chapter
11 
  
On March 18, 2009 (the “Petition date”), Chemtura and
26 of our U.S. affiliates (collectively, the “U.S. Debtors” or the “Debtors” when used in relation to matters
before August 8, 2010) filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (“Chapter
11”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”).
 
On August 8, 2010, our Canadian subsidiary, Chemtura Canada Co/Cie
(“Chemtura Canada”), filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11. On August 11, 2010 Chemtura Canada commenced
ancillary recognition proceedings under Part IV of the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act (the “CCAA”) in the
Ontario Superior Court of Justice, (the “Canadian Court” and such proceedings, the “Canadian Case”). The
U.S. Debtors along with Chemtura Canada after it filed for Chapter 11 (collectively, the “Debtors”) requested the Bankruptcy
Court to enter an order jointly administering Chemtura Canada’s Chapter 11 case with the previously filed Chapter 11 cases
and appoint Chemtura Canada as the “foreign representative” for the purposes of the Canadian Case. Such orders were
granted on August 9, 2010. On August 11, 2010, the Canadian Court entered an order recognizing the Chapter 11 cases as a “foreign
proceedings” under the CCAA.
 
On November 3, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming
the Debtors’ plan of reorganization (the “Plan”). On November 10, 2010 (the “Effective Date”), the
Debtors substantially consummated their reorganization through a series of transactions contemplated by the Plan and the Plan became
effective.
 
On June 10, 2011, we filed a closing report
in Chemtura Canada’s Chapter 11 case and a motion seeking a final decree closing that Chapter 11 case. On June 23, 2011,
the Bankruptcy Court granted our motion and entered a final decree closing the Chapter 11 case of Chemtura Canada.
 
On December 1, 2011, we filed a motion requesting entry of an order
granting a final decree closing the Chapter 11 cases of 22 Debtors (the “Fully Administered Debtors”). On December
15, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order granting a final decree closing the Fully Administered Debtors’ Chapter 11
cases.
 
On February 7, 2012, we filed a motion requesting entry of an order
granting a final decree closing the Chapter 11 cases for Bio-Lab, Inc. and GLCC Laurel, LLC.
 
Regulatory Matters
 
Chemical companies are subject to extensive environmental laws and
regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land, surface, subsurface strata and water and
the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Chemical companies
are also subject to other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding health and safety matters.
 

12
 

 
Environmental Health and Safety Regulation - We believe that
our business, operations and facilities are being operated in substantial compliance, in all material respects, with applicable
environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations.
The ongoing operations of chemical manufacturing plants, however, entail risks in these areas and there can be no assurance that
material costs or liabilities will not be incurred. In addition, future developments of environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations and related enforcement policies, could bring into question the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of
substances or pollutants at facilities we own, use or control. These developments could involve potential significant expenditures
in our manufacture, use or disposal of certain products or wastes. To meet changing permitting and regulatory standards, we may
be required to make significant site or operational modifications, potentially involving substantial expenditures and reduction
or suspension of certain operations. We incurred $12 million of costs for capital projects and $73 million for operating and maintenance
costs related to environmental health and safety programs at our facilities during 2011. In 2012, we expect to incur approximately
$20 million of costs for capital projects and $80 million for operating and maintenance costs related to environmental health and
safety programs at our facilities. During 2011, we paid $37 million (which included $27 million related to pre-petition liabilities)
to remediate previously utilized waste disposal sites and current and past facilities. We expect to spend approximately $19 million
during 2012 to remediate such waste disposal sites and current and former facilities.
 
Pesticide Regulation - Our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment
is subject to regulations under various federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations relating to the manufacture, sale and
use of pesticide products.
 
In August 1996, Congress enacted the Food Quality Protection Act
of 1996 ("FQPA"), which made significant changes to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act ("FIFRA"),
governing U.S. sale and use of pesticide products and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ("FFDCA"), which limits
pesticide residues on food.  FQPA facilitated registrations and re-registrations of pesticides for special (so called "minor")
uses under FIFRA and authorized collection of maintenance fees to support pesticide re-registrations. Coordination of regulations
implementing FIFRA and FFDCA is now required. Food safety provisions of FQPA establish a single standard of safety for pesticide
residue on raw and processed foods, require that information be provided through large food retail stores to consumers about the
health risks of pesticide residues and how to avoid them, preempt state and local food safety laws if they are based on concentrations
of pesticide residues below recently established federal residue limits (called "tolerances"), and ensure that tolerances
protect the health of infants and children.
 
FFDCA, as amended by FQPA, authorized the Environmental Protection
Agency (“EPA”) to set a tolerance for a pesticide in or on food at a level which poses "a reasonable certainty
of no harm" to consumers.  The EPA is required to review all tolerances for all pesticide products.  Most of our
products have successfully completed review, others are currently under review and other products will be reviewed under this standard
in the future.
 
The European Union Commission has established procedures whereby
all existing crop protection active ingredient chemicals commercially available in the European Union (the “EU”) are
to be reviewed. Regulation 91/414 became effective in 1993 and the process was updated in 2007 and 2008. The original list of existing
chemicals was prioritized and divided into 4 parts. We had four chemicals on the first list, three of which were successfully supported
through the review, which results in inclusion onto Annex I of 91/414, while the fourth was withdrawn by us for commercial reasons
and has since been re-submitted.  The remainder of our products will be reviewed in the future with the overall process
expected to be completed by the end of 2012. The process may lead to full registration in member states of the EU or may lead to
some restrictions or cancellation of registrations if it is determined that a product poses an unacceptable risk.
 

13
 

 
Chemical Regulation  - In December 2006, the EU signed
the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACh”) legislation.  This legislation requires
chemical manufacturers and importers in the EU to demonstrate the safety of the chemical substances contained in products. 
The effective date of the legislation was June 1, 2007 and it required all covered substances to be pre-registered by November
30, 2008.  Since December 1, 2008, no product containing covered substances can be manufactured in or imported into the EU
unless the substances therein have been pre-registered.  The full registration of REACh will be phased in over the next several
years.  The registration deadlines are as follows: 2010 for chemical substances manufactured or imported in excess of 1,000
metric tons per year and for substances deemed to be particularly harmful to humans or the environment, 2013 for substances manufactured
or imported in the EU between 100 and 1,000 metric tons per year and 2018 for substances manufactured or imported in the EU in
quantities greater than 1 metric ton per year.  The registration process requires expenditures and resource commitments to
compile and file comprehensive chemical dossiers on the use and attributes of each chemical substance and to perform chemical safety
assessments.  In addition, each registration phase carries with it a registration fee, which ranges from €31,000 per
substance for high-risk, high tonnage band substances to €1,600 for substances registered in the lowest tonnage band and risk. 
In 2008, we pre-registered approximately 1,100 substances and submitted approximately 2,100 pre-registration dossiers covering
multiple affiliated legal entities.  In 2009, our total REACh related costs, including registration fees, were approximately
$1 million.  In 2010, we registered 125 substances and our total REACh related costs, including registration fees, were approximately
$8 million. In 2011, while we registered a few substances, we spent $5 million primarily on improving our REACh registration processes
to reduce costs and risks associated with our 2013 registrations when we anticipate registering 119 substances. We anticipate REACh
related costs of approximately $7 million in 2012, $5 million in 2013 and $7 million in 2014.  The cost estimates could vary
based on data availability and cost.  The implementation of the REACh registration process may affect our ability to manufacture
and sell certain products in the future.
 

14
 

 
Item 1A: Risk Factors
 
The most
significant risks that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows
include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. Except as
otherwise indicated, these factors may or may not occur and we cannot predict the likelihood of any such factor occurring.
 
The cyclical nature of the chemicals industry causes significant
fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows.
 
Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical
and volatile nature of the supply and demand balance of the chemicals industry.  The chemicals industry has experienced alternating
periods of inadequate capacity and supply, allowing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods when substantial
capacity is added, resulting in oversupply, overcapacity, corresponding declining utilization rates and, ultimately, declining
prices and profit margins.  Some of the markets in which our customers participate, such as the automotive, electronics and
building and construction industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us that is beyond our control. These markets
are highly competitive, are driven to a large extent by end-use markets and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect
demand for and pricing of our products and result in volatile operating results and cash flows over our business cycle.  Future
growth in product demand may not be sufficient to utilize current or future capacity.  Excess industry capacity may continue
to depress our volumes and margins on some products.  Our operating results, accordingly, may be volatile as a result of excess
industry capacity, as well as from rising energy and raw materials costs.
 
Increases in the price of the raw materials or energy utilized
for our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
 
We purchase significant amounts of raw materials
and energy for our businesses. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represents a substantial portion of
our operating expenses.  The prices and availability of the raw materials we utilize vary with market conditions and may be
highly volatile.  Over the past few years, we have experienced significant cost increases in purchases of petrochemicals,
tin, soybean oil, other raw materials and, our primary energy source (natural gas) which has had a negative impact on our operating
results.
 
Although we have attempted, and will continue
to attempt, to match increases in the prices of raw materials or energy with corresponding increases in product prices, we may
not be able to immediately raise product prices, if at all.  Ultimately, our ability to pass on increases in the cost of raw
materials or energy to customers is highly dependent upon market conditions. Specifically, there is a risk that raising prices
charged to our customers could result in a loss of sales volume.  In the past, we have not always been able to pass on increases
in the prices of raw materials and energy to our customers, in whole or in part, and there will likely be periods in the future
when we will not be able to pass on these price increases. Reactions by our customers and competitors to our price increases could
cause us to reevaluate and possibly reverse such price increases, which would negatively affect operating results.
 
Any disruption in the availability of the raw materials or
energy utilized for our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
 
Across our businesses, there are a limited number
of suppliers for some of our raw materials and utilities and, in some cases, the number of sources for and availability of raw
materials and utilities is specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. It is also common in the
chemical industries for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. Having
a sole or limited number of suppliers may result in our having limited negotiating power, particularly during times of rising raw
material costs. Even where we have multiple suppliers for a raw material or utility, these suppliers may not make up for the loss
of a major supplier. Moreover, any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our
current supply agreements. For some of our products, the facilities or distribution channels of raw material and utility suppliers
and our production facilities form an integrated system, which limits our ability to negotiate favorable terms in supply agreements.
 

15
 

 
In addition, as part of an increased trend towards
vertical integration in the chemicals industry, other chemical companies are purchasing raw material suppliers. This is further
reducing the available suppliers for certain raw materials.
 
If one or more of our significant raw material
or utility suppliers were unable to meet its obligations under present supply arrangements, raw materials may become unavailable
within the geographic area from which they are now sourced, or supplies may otherwise be constrained or disrupted, our businesses
could be forced to incur increased costs for our raw materials or utilities, which would have a direct negative impact on plant
operations and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
 
Decline in general economic conditions and other external factors
may adversely impact our operations.
 
External factors, including domestic and global
economic conditions, international events and circumstances, competitor actions and government regulation, are beyond our control
and can cause fluctuations in demand and volatility in the prices of raw materials and other costs that can intensify the impact
of economic cycles on our operations. We produce a broad range of products that are used as additives and components in other products
in a wide variety of end-use markets. As a result, our products may be negatively impacted by supply and demand instability in
other industries and the effects of that instability on supply chain participants. Economic and political conditions in countries
in which we operate may also adversely impact our operations. For example, some countries in Central and Eastern Europe have been
particularly adversely affected by the recent global financial crisis, rising government deficits and debt levels, protracted credit
market tightness and other challenging European market conditions and could continue to negatively affect our businesses. Although
our diversified product portfolio and international presence lessens our dependence on a single market and exposure to economic
conditions or political instability in any one country or region, our businesses are nonetheless sensitive to changes in economic
conditions. Accordingly, financial crises and economic downturns anywhere in the world could adversely affect our results of operations,
cash flows and financial condition.
 
Competition may adversely impact our results of operations.
 
We face significant competition in many of the
markets in which we operate due to the trend toward global expansion and consolidation by competitors.  Some of our existing
competitors are larger than we are and may have more resources and better access to capital markets to facilitate continued expansion
or new product development. Additionally, some of our competitors have a greater product range and distributional capability than
we do for certain products and in specific regions. We also expect that we will continue to face new competitive challenges as
well as additional risks inherent in international operations in developing regions. We are susceptible to price competition in
certain markets in which customers are sensitive to changes in price. At the same time, we also face downward pressure on prices
from industry overcapacity and lower cost structures in certain businesses. The further use and introduction of generic and alternative
products by our competitors may result in increased competition and could require us to reduce our prices and take other steps
to compete effectively. These measures could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
Alternatively, if we were to increase prices in response to this competition, the reactions of our competitors and customers to
such price increases could cause us to reevaluate and possibly reverse such price increases or risk a loss in sales volumes.
 
Our inability to register our products in member states of
the European Union under the REACh legislation may lead to some restrictions or cancellations of registrations, which could impact
our ability to manufacture and sell certain products.
 
In December 2006, the European Union signed the
REACh legislation. This legislation requires chemical manufacturers and importers in the European Union to demonstrate the safety
of the chemical substances contained in their products via a substance registration process. The full REACh registration process
will be phased in over the next several years. The registration process will require capital and resource commitments to compile
and file comprehensive chemical dossiers regarding the use and attributes of each chemical substance manufactured or imported by
Chemtura and will require us to perform chemical safety assessments. Successful registration under REACh will be a functional prerequisite
to the continued sale of our products in the European Union market. Thus, REACh presents a risk to the continued sale of our products
in the European Union should we be unable or unwilling to complete the registration process or if the European Union seeks to ban
or materially restrict the production or importation of the chemical substances used in our products.
 

16
 

 
Adverse weather or economic conditions could materially affect
our results of operations.
 
Sales volumes for the products in our Chemtura
AgroSolutions segment, like all agricultural products, are subject to the sector’s dependency on weather, disease and pest
infestation conditions.  Adverse weather conditions in a particular region could have a material adverse affect on our Chemtura
AgroSolutions segment. Additionally, our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment products are typically sold pursuant to contracts with
extended payment terms in Latin America and Europe.  Customary extended payment periods, which are tied to particular crop
growing cycles, render our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment susceptible to losses from receivables during economic downturns and
may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.
 
Our pool and spa products in our Consumer Products
segment are primarily used in swimming pools and spas.  Demand for these products is influenced by a variety of factors, including
seasonal weather patterns.  An adverse change in weather patterns, such as unseasonably cold and wet summers, could negatively
affect the demand for, and profitability of, our pool and spa products.
 
Demand for Chemtura AgroSolutions products is affected by governmental
policies.
  
Demand for our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment products is influenced
by the agricultural policies of governments and regulatory authorities, particularly in developing countries in Asia and Latin
America, where we conduct business. Moreover, changes in governmental policies or product registration requirements could
have an adverse impact on our ability to market and sell our products.
 
In all regions of the world there are directives, laws and/or regulations
that require the testing and registration of all agrochemical products before they can be sold for application to crops. Each country
appoints agencies responsible for the administration of these approval processes. Under these laws or when such laws and regulations
are periodically changed the products that have been previously registered may be required to undergo a process of re-registration.
The re-registration process frequently demands tests to be repeated to more modern and exacting standards or may even require completely
new types of tests to be completed. These tests and processes for both new and existing agrochemical products can take significant
time to complete and resources to perform, and may ultimately be unsuccessful in their objective of securing a registration of
new products or re-registration of existing products. There is no assurance when an existing product requires re-registration that
it will be approved for continuing use or all of its previously approved uses can be sustained. Globally, many of our products
are currently subject to such re-registration processes which may result in products having their approval for sale withdrawn in
some countries.
 
Current and future litigation, governmental investigations,
prosecutions and administrative claims, including antitrust-related governmental investigations and lawsuits, could harm our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.
 
We have been involved in several significant lawsuits
and claims relating to environmental and chemical exposure matters, and may in the future be involved in similar litigation. Additionally,
we are routinely subject to other civil claims, litigation and arbitration and regulatory investigations arising in the ordinary
course of our business as well as with respect to our divested businesses. Some of these claims and lawsuits relate to product
liability claims, including claims related to current and former products and asbestos-related claims concerning the premises and
historic products of us and our predecessors. We could become subject to additional claims. An adverse outcome of these claims
could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows.
 
We have also been involved in a number of governmental
investigations, prosecutions and administrative claims in the past, including antitrust-related governmental investigations and
civil lawsuits, and may in the future be subject to similar claims. Additionally, we have incurred and could again incur expenses
in connection with antitrust-related matters, including expenses related to our cooperation with governmental authorities and defense-related
civil lawsuits.
 

17
 

 
Environmental, health and safety regulation matters could have
a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.
 
We are subject to extensive federal, state, local
and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions in the air, discharges
to land, surface, subsurface strata and water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of
hazardous waste and other materials.  Our operations bear the risk of violations of those laws and sanctions for violations
such as clean-up and removal costs, long-term monitoring and maintenance costs, costs of waste disposal, natural resource damages
and payments for property damage and personal injury.  Although it is our policy to comply with such laws and regulations,
it is possible that we have not been or may not be at all times in compliance with all of these requirements.
 
Additionally, these requirements, and enforcement
of these requirements, may become more stringent in the future.  The ultimate additional cost of compliance with any such
requirements could be material.  Non-compliance could subject us to material liabilities such as government fines or orders,
criminal sanctions, third-party lawsuits, remediations and settlements, the suspension, modification or revocation of necessary
permits and licenses, or the suspension of non-compliant operations.  We may also be required to make significant site or
operational modifications at substantial cost.  Future regulatory or other developments could also restrict or eliminate the
use of, or require us to make modifications to, our products, packaging, manufacturing processes and technology, which could have
a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
 
At any given time, we may be involved in claims,
litigation, administrative proceedings, settlements and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving
potential environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites, natural resource
damages, property damage, personal injury and regulatory compliance or non-compliance.  The resolution of these environmental
matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.
 
Recent federal regulations aimed at increasing security at
certain chemical production plants and similar legislation that may be proposed in the future could require us to enhance plant
security and to alter or discontinue our production of certain chemical products, thereby increasing our operating costs and causing
an adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
Regulations have recently been issued by the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) aimed at decreasing the risk, and effects, of potential terrorist attacks on
chemical plants located within the United States. Pursuant to these regulations, these goals would be accomplished in part through
the requirement that certain high-priority facilities develop a prevention, preparedness, and response plan after conducting a
vulnerability assessment. In addition, companies may be required to evaluate the possibility of using less dangerous chemicals
and technologies as part of their vulnerability assessments and prevention plans and implementing feasible safer technologies in
order to minimize potential damage to their facilities from a terrorist attack. Certain of our sites are subject to these regulations
and we cannot state at this time with certainty the costs associated with any security plans that the DHS may require. These regulations
may be revised further and additional legislation may be proposed in the future on this topic. It is possible that such future
legislation could contain terms that are more restrictive than what has recently been passed and which would be more costly to
us. We cannot predict the final form of currently pending legislation or other related legislation that may be passed and we can
provide no assurance that such legislation will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations in a future reporting period.
In addition, we may incur liabilities for subsequent damages in the event that we fail to comply with these regulations.
 
We operate on an international scale and are exposed to risks
in the countries in which we have significant operations or interests. Changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements, export
controls or international tax treaties could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.
 
We are dependent, in large part, on the economies
of the countries in which we manufacture and market our products. Of our 2011 net sales, 45% were to customers in the United States
and Canada, 30% to Europe and Africa, 20% to the Asia/Pacific region and 5% to Latin America.  As of December 31, 2011, our
net property, plant and equipment were located in various regions including 67% in the United States and Canada, 27% in Europe
and Africa, 4% in the Asia/Pacific region and 2% in Latin America.
 
The economies of the countries within these areas
are in different stages of socioeconomic development.  Consequently, we are exposed to risks from changes in foreign currency
exchange rates, interest rates, inflation, governmental spending, social instability and other political, economic or social developments
that may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
 

18
 

 
We may also face difficulties managing and administering
an internationally dispersed business.  In particular, the management of our personnel across several countries can present
logistical and managerial challenges.  Additionally, international operations present challenges related to operating under
different business cultures and languages.  We may have to comply with unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements,
which could negatively impact our operations and ability to manage our global financial resources. Export controls or other regulatory
restrictions could prevent us from shipping our products into and from some markets.  Moreover, we may not be able to adequately
protect our trademarks and other intellectual property overseas due to uncertainty of laws and enforcement in a number of countries
relating to the protection of intellectual property rights.  Changes in tax regulation and international tax treaties could
significantly reduce the financial performance of our foreign operations or the magnitude of their contributions to our overall
financial performance.
 
The recent European debt crisis could have a material adverse
effect on our European operations.
 
The recent European debt crisis
and related European financial restructuring efforts have contributed to instability in the global credit markets and may cause
the value of the Euro to further deteriorate. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe, the United
States or other key markets remain uncertain or deteriorate further, the value of the Euro and the credit market may weaken. While
we do not transact a significant amount of business in Greece or Italy, the general financial instability in those countries could
have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the European Union. If this
were to occur, it could adversely affect our European customers and suppliers and in turn have a material adverse effect on our
European business and results of operations.
 
If we fail to establish and maintain adequate internal controls
over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results in a timely and reliable manner, which could harm
our business and impact the value of our securities.
 
We depend on our ability to produce accurate and
timely financial statements in order to run our business. If we fail to do so, our business could be negatively affected and our
independent registered public accounting firm may be unable to attest to the fair presentation of our Consolidated Financial Statements
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Effective internal controls are necessary for us
to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports and effectively
prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. Even effective internal controls have inherent limitations
including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal
controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In
addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting in future periods are subject
to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or a deterioration in that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures.
 
We have in the past discovered, and may in the
future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement, including with respect to income tax accounts and international
customer incentive, commission and promotional payment practices. We have completed the previously disclosed review of various
customer incentive, commission and promotional payment practices of the Chemtura AgroSolutions segment in its Europe, Middle East
and Africa region (the “EMEA Region”).  The review was conducted under the oversight of the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors and with the assistance of outside counsel and forensic accounting consultants.  As disclosed
previously, the review found evidence of various suspicious payments made to persons in certain Central Asian countries and of
activity intended to conceal the nature of those payments. The amounts of these payments were reflected in our books and records
but were not recorded appropriately or in a transparent manner, including payments that were redirected to persons other than the
customer, distributor or agent in the particular transaction. None of these payments were subject to adequate internal control.
We have strengthened our worldwide internal controls relating to customer incentives and sales agent commissions and enhanced our
global policy prohibiting improper payments which requires, among other things, that we monitor our international operations. Such
monitoring may require that we investigate allegations of possible improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which
such transactions are recorded. We have severed our relationship with all of the sales agents and the employees responsible for
the suspicious payments. We are currently in discussions with the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding a possible resolution
of this matter. We cannot reasonably estimate the nature or amount of monetary or other sanctions, if any, that might be imposed
as a result of the review.
 

19
 

 
If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls,
including any failure to implement new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, we could
fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In
the event that our current control practices deteriorate, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent
fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our securities may be adversely affected.
 
Our results of operations are subject to exchange rate and
other currency risks.  A significant movement in exchange rates could adversely impact our results of operations.
 
Significant portions of our businesses are conducted
in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results. Effects of
exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results cannot be predicted because of the number of currencies involved,
the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We face risks arising from the imposition
of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S.
dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country
imposing controls. In certain foreign countries, some components of our cost structure are denominated in U.S. dollars while our
revenues are denominated in the local currency. In those cases, currency devaluation could adversely impact our operating margins.
 
We are dependent upon a trained, dedicated sales force, the
loss of which could materially affect our operations.
 
Many of our products are sold and supported through
dedicated staff and specifically trained personnel.  The loss of this sales force due to market or other conditions could
affect our ability to sell and support our products effectively, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
Production facilities are subject to operating risks that may
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
 
We are dependent on the continued operation of
our production facilities.  Such production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacturing, handling,
storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including pipeline leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement
weather and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties, transportation
interruptions, remediation complications, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous gases, storage tank leaks
and other environmental risks.  These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction
of, property and equipment and environmental damage, fines, civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. The occurrence of these
events may disrupt production or incur significant costs, which could have an adverse effect on the production and profitability
of a particular manufacturing facility and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
 
Our businesses depend upon many proprietary technologies, including
patents, licenses and trademarks.  Our competitive position could be adversely affected if we fail to protect our patents
or other intellectual property rights or if we become subject to claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others.
 
Our intellectual property is of particular importance
for a number of the specialty chemicals that we manufacture and sell. The trademarks and patents that we own may be challenged,
and because of such challenges, we could eventually lose our exclusive rights to use and enforce such proprietary technologies
and trademarks, which would adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. We are licensed to use certain
patents and technology owned by other companies, including foreign companies, to manufacture products complementary to our own
products. We pay royalties for these licenses in amounts not considered material, in the aggregate, to our consolidated results.
 
We also rely on unpatented proprietary know-how
and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although it is
our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to restrict the use and disclosure of
trade secrets and proprietary know-how, those confidentiality agreements may be breached. Additionally, adequate remedies may not
be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and know-how, and others could obtain knowledge
of such trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our patents, trademarks or
confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how and the brands
under which we market and sell our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows. 
  

20
 



 
We cannot be assured that our products or methods
do not infringe on the patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of others. Infringement and other intellectual
claims or proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation.
Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success
of our business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following:
 

·cease selling products that contain asserted intellectual property;

·pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual
property;

·obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property,
which may not be available on reasonable terms; and


·redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, our products
to avoid infringing the rights of third parties.
 
Such requirements could adversely affect our revenue,
increase costs, and harm our financial condition.
 
Our patents may not provide full protection against competing
manufacturers outside of the United States, the European Union countries and certain other developed countries.  Weaker protection
may adversely impact our sales and results of operations.
 
In some of the countries in which we operate,
such as China, the laws protecting patent holders are significantly weaker than in the United States, countries in the European
Union and certain other developed countries.  Weaker protection may assist competing manufacturers in becoming more competitive
in markets in which they might not have otherwise been able to introduce competing products for a number of years. As a result,
we tend to rely more heavily upon trade secret and know-how protection in these regions, as applicable, rather than patents. Additionally,
for our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment products sold in China, we rely on regulatory protection of intellectual property provided
by regulatory agencies, which may not provide us with complete protection against competitors.
 
An inability to remain technologically innovative and to offer
improved products and services in a cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operating results.
 
Our operating results are influenced in part by
our ability to introduce new products and services that offer distinct value to our customers.  For example, both our Chemtura
AgroSolutions segment and our organometallic business seek to provide tailored products for our customers’ often unique problems,
which require an ongoing level of innovation. In many of the markets where we sell our products, the products are subject to a
traditional product life cycle. Even where we devote significant human and financial resources to develop new technologically advanced
products and services, we may not be successful in these efforts.
 
Joint venture investments that we enter into could be adversely
affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on joint venture partners’ financial condition and disputes
between us and our joint venture partners.
 
A portion of our operations is conducted through
certain ventures in which we share control with third parties. In these situations, we are not in a position to exercise sole decision-making
authority regarding the facility, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments through partnerships, joint ventures,
or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility
that joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, make poor business
decisions or block or delay necessary decisions. Joint venture partners may have economic or other business interests or goals
which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies
or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor
our joint venture partners would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and our joint venture
partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent the members of our management team
from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, action by, or disputes with, our joint venture partners might
result in subjecting the facilities owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain
circumstances be liable for the actions of our joint venture partners. Our joint ventures’ unfunded and underfunded pension
plans and post-retirement health care plans could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
 

21
 

 
Our unfunded and underfunded defined benefit pension plans
and post-retirement welfare benefit plans could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
 
The cost of our defined benefit pension and post-retirement
welfare benefit plans is recognized through operations over extended periods of time and involves many uncertainties during those
periods of time. Our funding policy for defined benefit pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will
approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used
to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested
assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate
of return on plan assets. Similarly, our post-retirement welfare benefit cost is materially affected by the discount rate used
to measure these obligations, as well as by changes in the actual cost of providing these medical and other welfare benefits.
 
We have underfunded obligations under our U.S.
tax-qualified defined benefit pension plans totaling approximately $234 million on a projected benefit obligation basis as of December
31, 2011. Further declines in the value of the plan investments, the discount rate used to measure liabilities or unfavorable changes
in law or regulations that govern pension plan funding could materially change the timing and amount of required funding. Additionally,
we sponsor other foreign and non-qualified U.S. pension plans under which there are substantial unfunded liabilities totaling approximately
$114 million on a projected benefit obligation basis as of December 31, 2011. Foreign regulatory authorities may seek to have Chemtura
and/or certain of our non-sponsoring subsidiaries take responsibility for some portion of these obligations. Mandatory funding
contributions with respect to these obligations and potential unfunded benefit liability claims could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition, results of operations or future cash flows. In addition, our actual costs with respect to our post-retirement
welfare benefit plans could exceed our current actuarial projections.
 
We are subject to risks associated with possible climate change
legislation, regulation and international accords.
 
Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become
the subject of a large amount of international, national, regional, state and local attention. Cap and trade initiatives to limit
greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced in the European Union. Similarly, numerous bills related to climate change have been
introduced in the U.S. Congress, which could adversely impact all industries. In addition, the EPA has promulgated rules limiting
greenhouse gas emissions and regulation of greenhouse gas also could occur pursuant to future U.S. treaty obligations, statutory
or regulatory changes under the Clean Air Act or new climate change legislation.
 
While not all are likely to become law, this is
a strong indication that additional climate change related mandates will be forthcoming, and it is expected that they may adversely
impact our costs by increasing energy costs and raw material prices and establishing costly emissions trading schemes and requiring
modification of equipment to limit greenhouse gas emissions.
 
A step toward potential federal restriction on
greenhouse gas emissions was taken on December 7, 2009 when the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) issued
its Endangerment Finding in response to a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. The EPA found that the emission of
six greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (which is emitted from the combustion of fossil fuels), may reasonably be anticipated
to endanger public health and welfare. Based on this finding, the EPA defined the mix of these six greenhouse gases to be “air
pollution” subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. Although the EPA has stated a preference that greenhouse gas regulation
be based on new federal legislation rather than the existing Clean Air Act, absent legislative action, the EPA has begun to regulate
many sources of greenhouse gas emissions.
 
The U.S. Congress recently considered legislation
that would create an economy-wide “cap-and-trade” system that would establish a limit (or cap) on overall greenhouse
gas emissions and create a market for the purchase and/or sale of emissions permits or “allowances.” Under these proposals,
the chemical industry likely would be affected due to anticipated increases in energy costs as fuel providers pass on the cost
of the emissions allowances, which they would be required to obtain, to cover the emissions from fuel production and the eventual
use of fuel by us or our energy suppliers. In addition, cap-and-trade proposals would likely increase the cost of energy, including
purchases of steam and electricity, and certain raw materials used by us. Other countries are also considering or have implemented
regulatory programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Future environmental legislative and regulatory developments related to
climate change are possible, which could materially increase operating costs in the chemical industry and thereby increase our
manufacturing and delivery costs. In addition, it is presently unclear what effects, if any, changes in regional or global climate
will have on our operations or results.
 

22
 

 
If our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets become
impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.
 
Under U.S. GAAP, we review our intangible assets
and long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is tested for impairment on July 31 of each year, or more frequently if required. Factors that may be considered a change
in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets may not be recoverable,
include, but are not limited to, a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower
growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in
which any impairment of our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of
operations.
 
Restrictive covenants in our credit
facilities and senior notes may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions.
 
Our credit facilities and senior notes
contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. The covenants limit our ability
to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness or repay certain indebtedness, create liens, pay dividends on or make other
distributions on or repurchase capital stock or make other restricted payments, make investments, and enter into acquisitions,
dispositions and joint ventures. Such restrictions in our credit facilities and senior notes could result in us having to obtain
the consent of our lenders in order to take certain actions. Recent disruptions in credit markets may prevent us from or make it
more difficult or more costly for us to obtain such consents from our lenders. Our ability to expand our business or to address
declines in our business may be limited if we are unable to obtain such consents.
 
A breach of any of these covenants could
result in a default under our credit facilities and senior notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could
elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities and senior notes immediately due and payable and terminate
all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral
granted to them to secure our indebtedness. Our subsidiaries have pledged a significant portion of their assets as collateral under
our credit facilities. If the lenders under credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient
assets to repay amounts borrowed under the credit facilities which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and on
the value of our stock.
 
If we issue additional shares of common stock in the future,
it will result in the dilution of our existing stockholders.
 
Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 500
million shares of common stock, of which 98.3 million shares were issued and 96.3 million shares outstanding as of December 31,
2011. Our board of directors has the authority to issue additional shares of common stock up to the authorized capital stated in
the certificate of incorporation. Our board of directors may choose to issue some or all of such shares of common stock to acquire
one or more businesses or to provide additional financing in the future. The issuance of any such shares of common stock will result
in a reduction of the book value or market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Additionally, we have an incentive
plan that allows for the issuance of up to 11 million shares (currently 6.3 million shares remain available for future grants),
equal to eleven percent of Chemtura’s new shares of common stock issued on the Effective Date. We also have approximately
2 million shares available for issuance after the Effective Date to holders of Allowed Claims and Interests (as defined in the
Plan). If we do issue any additional shares of common stock, including pursuant to our incentive plan, such issuance also will
cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders.
 
On October 18, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors (the
“Board”) has authorized us to repurchase up to $50 million of our common stock over the next twelve months. The shares
are expected to be repurchased from time to time through open market purchases. The program, which does not obligate us to repurchase
any particular amount of common stock, may be modified or suspended at any time at the Board’s discretion. The manner, price,
number and timing of such repurchases, if any, will be subject to a variety of factors, including market conditions and the applicable
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). As of December 31, 2011, we had purchased
2.0 million shares for $22 million.
 

23
 

 
Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments
 
None.
 
Item 2: Properties
 
The following table sets forth information regarding our principal
operating properties and other significant properties as of December 31, 2011. All of the following properties are owned except
where otherwise indicated. In general, our operating properties are well maintained, suitably equipped and in good operating condition.
 


Location
 
Facility
 
Reporting Segment

UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 

Alabama
 
 
 
 

Bay Minette
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products

 
 
 
 
 

Arkansas
 
 
 
 

El Dorado
 
Plant
 
Industrial Engineered Products

 
 
 
 
 

California
 
 
 
 

McFarland
 
Repackaging Warehouse
 
Industrial Engineered Products

 
 
 
 
 

Connecticut
 
 
 
 

Middlebury*
 
Executive Offices
 
Corporate Offices

Naugatuck
 
Research Center
 
Industrial Performance Products

 
 
 
 
 

Georgia
 
 
 
 

Conyers
 
Plant
 
Consumer Products

Lawrenceville*
 
Office, Research Center
 
Consumer Products, Chemtura AgroSolutions

 
 
 
 
 

Illinois
 
 
 
 

Mapleton
 
Plant
 
Industrial Engineered Products

Pekin*
 
Plant
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions

 
 
 
 
 

Indiana
 
 
 
 

West Lafayette
 
Office, Research Center
 
Industrial Engineered Products

 
 
 
 
 

Louisiana
 
 
 
 

Lake Charles
 
Plant
 
Consumer Products

Westlake
 
Land
 
Consumer Products

 
 
 
 
 

Michigan
 
 
 
 

Adrian
 
Plant
 
Consumer Products

 
 
 
 
 

New Jersey
 
 
 
 

East Hanover
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products

Fords
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products

Perth Amboy
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products

 
 
 
 
 

North Carolina
 
 
 
 

Gastonia
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products, Chemtura AgroSolutions

 
 
 
 
 

Pennsylvania
 
 
 
 

Philadelphia*
 
Executive Offices
 
Corporate Offices

 
 
 
 
 

West Virginia
 
 
 
 

Morgantown
 
Plant, Research Center
 
Industrial Performance Products

 

24
 

 


Location
 
Facility
 
Reporting Segment

 
 
 
 
 

INTERNATIONAL
 
 
 
 

Australia
 
 
 
 

Sydney
 
Office
 
Corporate Office

 
 
 
 
 

Brazil
 
 
 
 

Rio Claro
 
Plant
 
Industrial Engineered Products, Industrial Performance Products,

 
 
 
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions

Sao Paulo*
 
Office
 
Industrial Engineered Products, Industrial Performance Products,

 
 
 
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions

 
 
 
 
 

Canada
 
 
 
 

Elmira
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products, Chemtura AgroSolutions,

 
 
 
 
Industrial Engineered Products

Guelph
 
Research Center
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions

West Hill
 
Plant
 
Consumer Products, Industrial Performance Products

 
 
 
 
 

France
 
 
 
 

Catenoy
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products

Dardilly*
 
Office
 
Consumer Products

 
 
 
 
 

Germany
 
 
 
 

Bergkamen*
 
Plant, Research Center
 
Industrial Engineered Products

Waldkraiburg
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products

Planegg*
 
Office
 
Consumer Products

 
 
 
 
 

Italy
 
 
 
 

Latina
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products, Chemtura AgroSolutions

Milan1
 
Office
 
Industrial Performance Products

Pedrengo
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products

 
 
 
 
 

Mexico
 
 
 
 

Altamira
 
Plant
 
Industrial Engineered Products, Industrial Performance Products

Cuautitlan
 
Plant
 
Industrial Engineered Products, Industrial Performance Products

Reynosa
 
Plant
 
Industrial Engineered Products

 
 
 
 
 

The Netherlands
 
 
 
 

Amsterdam
 
Plant
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions

 
 
 
 
 

Republic of China
 
 
 
 

Nanjing
 
Plant, Research Center
 
Industrial Performance Products

Shanghai*
 
Office
 
Corporate

 
 
 
 
 

South Africa
 
 
 
 

Atlantis
 
Plant
 
Consumer Products

Boksburg
 
Office
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions

Kylami
 
Office
 
Industrial Performance Products

 
 
 
 
 

South Korea
 
 
 
 

Pyongtaek2
 
Plant
 
Industrial Performance Products

 
 
 
 
 

Switzerland
 
 
 
 

Frauenfeld*
 
Office
 
Industrial Engineered Products, Chemtura AgroSolutions, Corporate

 


25
 



 



Taiwan
 
 

Kaohsiung
Plant
Industrial Engineered Products, Industrial Performance Products

 
 
 

United Kingdom
 
 

Accrington
Plant
Industrial Performance Products

Cheltenham
Office/Tech Center
Consumer Products

Droitwich
Plant
Industrial Performance Products

Evesham
Research Center
Chemtura AgroSolutions

Langley*
Office
Chemtura AgroSolutions, Corporate

Trafford Park
Plant, Office
Industrial Engineered Products,  Industrial Performance Products, Corporate

 

 

* Leased property.
1 Facility leased by Anderol Italia S.r.l, which is 51% owned by
us.
2 Facility owned by Asia Stabilizers Co. Ltd. which is 65% owned
by us.
 
Item 3: Legal Proceedings
 
Information regarding our legal proceedings can be found in Note
19 – Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference
herein.
 
Item 4: (Removed and reserved)
 

26
 

 
PART II
 
Item 5: Market for Registrant’s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
On November 10, 2010, pursuant
to our Plan, our previously outstanding common stock (including treasury stock) was cancelled and we authorized and began issuance
of 100 million shares of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “New Common Stock”). As of December 31, 2011,
98.3 million shares were issued and 96.3 million shares were outstanding and 1.9 million shares have been reserved for future issuances
under the terms of the Plan. The New Common Stock was approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”)
on November 8, 2010 and started trading on the exchange under the ticker symbol “CHMT” on November 11, 2010.
 
From April 16, 2009 through
November 10, 2010, the previously outstanding common stock was traded over the counter as quoted on the Pink Sheet Electronic Quotation
Service (“Pink Sheets”) under the symbol “CEMJQ”.
 
We suspended the payment
of dividends in relation to previous issued common stock on October 30, 2008. We have no current plans to pay any cash dividends
on our New Common Stock and instead may retain earnings, if any, for future operation, expansion and debt repayment. Any decision
to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors (the “Board”) and
will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions
and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our five year senior secured revolving credit facility
available through 2015 (the “ABL Facility”) and our senior secured term facility credit agreement due 2016 (the “Term
Loan”) each contain a covenant restricting the payment of dividends by us and each of our subsidiaries that are party to
such facilities, which is subject to a number of specific exceptions.
 
The following table summarizes
the range of market prices for our previously outstanding common stock and New Common Stock as reported by the Pink Sheets or the
NYSE, as applicable, by quarter during the past two years:
 


  
2011 

  
First  
Second  
Third  
Fourth 

Market price per common share: 
    
    
    
   

High 
$17.98  
$19.37  
$18.92  
$12.95 

Low 
$15.05  
$16.34  
$9.86  
$8.49 

 


  
2010 

  
First  
Second  
Third  
Fourth 

Market price per common share:(a) 
    
    
    
   

High 
$1.71  
$1.78  
$0.68  
$16.10 

Low 
$1.00  
$0.55  
$0.29  
$0.28 

 

(a)As a result of the cancelation of our previously outstanding common stock on November 10,
2010 and issuance of New Common Stock, as well as the recapitalization of our Company as a result of our reorganization process,
the market prices per common share in this table prior to November 10, 2010 are not comparable with subsequent market prices per
common share.
 
The number of holders of
record of our New Common Stock on December 31, 2011 was approximately 4,900. See Item 1A – Risk Factors for a discussion
of risks related to our common stock.
 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During the Fourth Quarter
of 2011
 
On October 18, 2011, we announced that our Board has authorized
us to repurchase up to $50 million of our New Common Stock over the next twelve months. The shares are expected to be repurchased
from time to time through open market purchases. The program, which does not obligate us to repurchase any particular amount of
common stock, may be modified or suspended at any time at the Board’s discretion. The manner, price, number and timing of
such repurchases, if any, will be subject to a variety of factors, including market conditions and the applicable rules and regulations
of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). As of December 31, 2011 the cumulative authorized repurchase allowance
was $50 million, of which we had purchased 2 million shares for $22 million. The remaining allowance under the program was approximately
$28 million.
 

27
 

 
The following table provides information about our repurchases of
equity securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2011:
 


Period 
Total Number of Shares Purchased  
Average Price Paid
per Share  
Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs  
Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs 

  
(in millions)  
   
(in millions)  
(in millions) 

October 1, 2011 - October 31, 2011 
 0.1  
$11.17  
 0.1  
$49 

November 1, 2011 - November 30, 2011 
 1.4  
$10.75  
 1.4  
$34 

December 1, 2011 - December 31, 2011 
 0.5  
$10.86  
 0.5  
$28 

Total 
 2.0  
    
 2.0  
   

  
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
 
The following graph compares
the cumulative total return on our common stock for the period November 11, 2010 through December 31, 2011 with the returns of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the S&P 500 Specialty Chemicals Index, assuming an investment of $100 on
November 11, 2010 and the reinvestment of all dividends. Since our old common stock was cancelled when we emerged from Chapter
11 and our New Common Stock began trading on the NYSE on November 11, 2010, stock performance prior to November 11, 2010 does not
provide meaningful comparison and has not been provided.
 
COMPARISON
OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG CHEMTURA CORPORATION, 
S&P
500 AND S&P 500 SPECIALTY CHEMICALS
 

 



  
11/11/10  
12/31/10  
03/31/11  
06/30/11  
09/30/11  
12/31/11 

CHEMTURA CORPORATION 
$100.0  
$103.8  
$111.7  
$118.2  
$65.1  
$73.6 

S&P500 
$100.0  
$103.6  
$109.3  
$108.8  
$93.2  
$103.6 

S&P 500 SPECIALTY CHEMICALS 
$100.0  
$104.6  
$105.8  
$114.3  
$98.9  
$109.6 


 

28
 

 
Item 6: Selected Financial Data
 
The following reflects
our selected financial data for each of our last five fiscal years. The information below should be read in conjunction with Item
7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8 - Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report. The financial information presented may not be indicative of future performance.
 


(In millions of dollars, except per share data) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Summary of Operations 
    
    
    
    
   

Net sales 
$3,025  
$2,760  
$2,300  
$3,154  
$3,370 

Gross profit 
 729  
 657  
 579  
 717  
 819 

Selling, general and administrative 
 339  
 315  
 289  
 323  
 362 

Depreciation and amortization 
 140  
 175  
 162  
 221  
 254 

Research and development 
 43  
 42  
 35  
 46  
 57 

Facility closures, severance and related costs 
 3  
 1  
 3  
 23  
 34 

Antitrust costs 
 -  
 -  
 10  
 12  
 35 

(Gain) loss on sale of business (a) 
 (27) 
 (2) 
 -  
 25  
 15 

Impairment charges (b) 
 4  
 57  
 39  
 986  
 19 

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims (c) 
 3  
 35  
 73  
 -  
 - 

Equity income 
 (3) 
 (4) 
 -  
 (4) 
 (3)

Operating income (loss) 
 227  
 38  
 (32) 
 (915) 
 46 

Interest expense (d) 
 (63) 
 (191) 
 (70) 
 (78) 
 (87)

Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
 -  
 (88) 
 -  
 -  
 - 

Other (expense) income, net 
 -  
 (6) 
 (17) 
 9  
 (5)

Reorganization items, net (e) 
 (19) 
 (303) 
 (97) 
 -  
 - 

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 
 145  
 (550) 
 (216) 
 (984) 
 (46)

Income tax (expense) benefit 
 (25) 
 (22) 
 (10) 
 29  
 - 

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations 
 120  
 (572) 
 (226) 
 (955) 
 (46)

(Loss) earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (1) 
 (63) 
 (16) 
 27 

(Loss) gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (12) 
 (3) 
 -  
 24 

Net earnings (loss) 
 120  
 (585) 
 (292) 
 (971) 
 5 

Less: net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 
 (1) 
 (1) 
 (1) 
 (2) 
 (8)

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$119  
$(586) 
$(293) 
$(973) 
$(3)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Amounts attribuable to Chemtura common stockholders: 
    
    
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax 
$119  
$(573) 
$(227) 
$(957) 
$(54)

(Loss) earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (1) 
 (63) 
 (16) 
 27 

(Loss) gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (12) 
 (3) 
 -  
 24 

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$119  
$(586) 
$(293) 
$(973) 
$(3)

 

29
 

 


(In millions, except per share data) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Per Share Statistics 
    
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax 
$1.19  
$(2.58) 
$(0.93) 
$(3.94) 
$(0.22)

(Loss) earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 -  
 (0.26) 
 (0.07) 
 0.11 

(Loss) gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (0.05) 
 (0.01) 
 -  
 0.10 

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$1.19  
$(2.63) 
$(1.20) 
$(4.01) 
$(0.01)

Dividends 
$-  
$-  
$-  
$0.15  
$0.20 

Book value 
$10.86  
$10.16  
$0.71  
$2.01  
$7.84 

Common stock trading range:    High (f) 
$19.37  
$16.10  
$1.55  
$8.81  
$12.33 

                                                    Low (f) 
$8.49  
$0.28  
$0.02  
$1.02  
$6.95 

Average shares outstanding - Basic (f) 
 100.1  
 223.0  
 242.9  
 242.3  
 241.6 

Average shares outstanding - Diluted (f) 
 100.3  
 223.0  
 242.9  
 242.3  
 241.6 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Financial Position 
    
    
    
    
   

Working capital (deficiency) (g) 
$931  
$932  
$881  
$(558) 
$700 

Current ratio (g) 
 3.4  
 2.9  
 2.5  
 0.7  
 2.0 

Total assets 
$2,855  
$2,913  
$3,118  
$3,057  
$4,416 

Total debt, including short-term borrowings (g) 
$753  
$751  
$255  
$1,204  
$1,063 

Stockholders' equity 
$1,046  
$971  
$172  
$488  
$1,899 

Total capital employed (g) 
$1,799  
$1,722  
$427  
$1,692  
$2,962 

Debt to total capital % (g) 
 41.9  
 43.6  
 59.7  
 71.2  
 35.9 

  
    
    
    
    
   

(In millions of dollars, except for number of employees) 
    
    
    
    
   

Other Statistics 
    
    
    
    
   

Net cash provided by (used in) operations (h) 
$182  
$(204) 
$49  
$(11) 
$149 

Capital spending from continuing operations 
$154  
$124  
$53  
$116  
$107 

Depreciation from continuing operations 
$102  
$138  
$124  
$177  
$216 

Amortization from continuing operations 
$38  
$37  
$38  
$44  
$38 

Approximate number of employees at end of year 
 4,500  
 4,200  
 4,400  
 4,700  
 5,100 

 

(a)(Gain) loss on sale of business primarily included a $27 million gain on the sale of our
50% interest in Tetrabrom Technologies Ltd. in 2011, a $2 million gain relating to the sale of the natural sodium sulfonates and
oxidized petrolatum product lines in 2010, a $25 million loss relating primarily to the sale of the oleochemicals business in 2008
and a $15 million loss on the sale of assets relating to the sale of the Celogen® product line in 2007. 

(b)The 2011 charge primarily included the impairment of intangible assets of
$3 million within the Chemtura AgroSolutions. The 2010 charge included the impairment of goodwill of $57 million within the Chemtura
AgroSolutions segment. The 2009 charge included the impairment of goodwill of $37 million and the impairment of intangible assets
of $2 million within the Consumer Products segment. The 2008 charge primarily
included a $985 million impairment of goodwill associated with the Consumer Products, Industrial Performance Products and Industrial
Engineered Products segments. The 2007 charge primarily included a $9 million reduction in the value of assets relating to the
closure and sale of the Ravenna, Italy facility and a $4 million write-off of construction in progress associated with certain
facilities affected by the 2007 restructuring programs.

(c)Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims relate to adjustments to liabilities
subject to compromise (primarily legal and environmental reserves) as a result of our Chapter 11 proofs of claim evaluation process.

(d)Interest expense in 2010 includes $137 million of contractual interest expense
                                                                                                     recorded, relating to interest obligations on unsecured claims for the period from March 18, 2009 through the Effective Date
                                                                                                     that were paid based on the Plan (included in this amount is contractual interest expense of $63 million for
                                                                                                     2009).

(e)Reorganization items, net, represent professional fees; the write-off of debt discounts,
premiums and debt issuance costs; the write-off of deferred financing expenses related to the termination of the U.S. accounts
receivable facility; impacts from rejections or terminations of executory contracts and real property leases; impacts from the
settlement of claims; and charges for reorganization initiatives.

(f)Upon the effectiveness of our Plan, all previously outstanding shares of common stock were
cancelled and pursuant to the Plan approximately 96 million shares of New Common Stock were issued. The weighted average shares
for 2010 was based upon 243 million of old shares outstanding for approximately 10 months and approximately 100 million of new
shares outstanding for approximately 2 months. As a result, the average shares outstanding and price of our New Common Stock may
not be comparable to prior periods.

(g)The 2009 amounts excludes $2 billion of Liabilities Subject to Compromise.

(h)The 2010 net cash used in operations included $195 million related to cash settlements of
claims in connection with the Chapter 11 cases and $50 million of pension contributions in accordance with the Plan.
 

30
 

 
Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction
with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
 

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements”
for a discussion of certain of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements.

 
OUR BUSINESS
 
We are among the larger publicly traded specialty chemical companies
in the United States. We are dedicated to delivering innovative, application-focused specialty chemical solutions and consumer
products. Our principal executive offices are located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Middlebury, Connecticut. We operate in
a wide variety of end-use industries, including agriculture, automotive, building and construction, electronics, lubricants, packaging,
plastics for durable and non-durable goods, pool and spa chemicals and transportation. The majority of our chemical products are
sold to industrial manufacturing customers for use as additives, ingredients or intermediates that add value to their end products.
Our agrochemical and consumer products are sold to dealers, distributors and major retailers. We are a leader in many of our key
product lines and transact business in more than 100 countries.
 
The primary economic factors
that influence the operations and sales of our Industrial Performance Products (“Industrial Performance”) and Industrial
Engineered Products (“Industrial Engineered”) segments (collectively referred to as, “Industrials”) are
industrial, electronic component and polymer production, residential and commercial construction. In addition, our Chemtura AgroSolutions
segment is influenced by worldwide weather, disease and pest infestation conditions. Our Consumer Products segment is also influenced
by general economic conditions impacting consumer spending and weather conditions. For additional factors that impact our performance,
see Item 1A - Risk Factors.
 
Other factors affecting our financial performance include industry
capacity, customer demand, raw material and energy costs, and selling prices. Selling prices are influenced by the global demand
and supply for the products we produce. We pursue selling prices that reflect the value our products deliver to our customers,
while seeking to pass on higher costs for raw material and energy to preserve our profit margins.
 
Overview
of Our Performance
 
We ended 2010 having emerged from Chapter
11 stronger and more focused on our customers and the industries we serve. We had strengthened our emphasis on performance and
execution, eliminated non-value added costs, reduced legacy environmental and litigation exposures and reduced our financial leverage.
We emerged from Chapter 11 with a much stronger balance sheet and substantial liquidity.
 
In 2011, we focused on executing our strategies
for growth and in the process quickly returned to profitability. In our first year following our reorganization we earned $1.19
per diluted share.
 
At the core of our strategy is a focus on
innovation and growth, particularly in the faster growing regions of the world. In 2011 we introduced new products, offered new
and built on existing applications’ and invested in our businesses to serve our customers’ growing demand. Among the
many accomplishments of 2011 are:
 
Industrial Performance 
 

·We announced our plans to build a new multi-purpose manufacturing
facility in Nantong, China to support the growth in customer demand in the Asian region initially producing petroleum additives
and urethanes products.
 

·We committed to establish a European manufacturing capability for
our Synton® line of high-viscosity polyalphaolefin (“HVPAO”) synthetic basestocks. This increased capacity will
support our ability to meet the increasing global demand for these products by locating production capacity in a region of significant
demand growth, and will enhance our service levels to continue to meet our customer commitments. Engineering work has commenced
to enable production in 2013 of the Synton® 40 and Synton® 100 HVPAO products at our facility in Ankerweg, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.
 

31
 

 
Industrial Engineered 
 

·We continued the launch of our EmeraldTM range of flame
retardants. We introduced EmeraldTM 3000, based on technology we licensed from The Dow Chemical Company, for use in
XPS and EPS foams. We continued the introduction of EmeraldTM 1000 and introduced EmeraldTM 2000 which are
used in the electronics market.
 

·We are adding capacity for diethylzinc, triethylaluminum, and trimethylaluminum
for organometallics. Demand for diethylzinc in pharmaceutical and solar applications outweighs supply. Trimethylaluminum is a building
block for materials used in high brightness LEDs.
 

·We formed the DayStar joint venture in Korea with UP Chemical Co.
Ltd. so we can better serve the fabricators of high brightness LEDs.
 

·We entered into a letter of intent with Archean Group to establish
a strategic alliance in bromine and brominated derivatives in India.
 
Consumer Products
 

·We developed and registered a new range of opening price point products
and introduced the Pool EssentialsTM brand.
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions
 

·We formed the ISEM S.r.l. joint venture in Italy with Isagro S.p.a
to accelerate the development of our new product pipeline.
 

·We appointed Bayer Crop Science as the distributor of our seed enhancement
products in the Republic of China.
 

·We obtained new product registrations and sourced new products for
the expected introduction of at least 80 new products in 2012.
 
The need to make significant investments to support the growth in
demand for many of our customer applications combined with the relentless increases in raw material input costs required us to
place focus on increasing selling prices within our Industrial segments in 2011.
 
Like many industrial businesses, growth slowed in the second half
of 2011 as customers tried to digest the changing perspectives on economic growth and the possible impacts of the European sovereign
debt issues. Nevertheless, despite this uncertainty, we delivered significant year-on-year improvement in each of the four quarters
of 2011.
 
As we look to 2012, we
will continue to invest in people, capital expenditures and technology as we did in 2011 to further drive growth and improved profitability.
 

32
 

 


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
   
   
  

(In millions, except per share data) 
   
   
  

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Net Sales 
   
   
  

Industrial Performance Products 
$1,358  
$1,223  
$999 

Industrial Engineered Products 
 869  
 728  
 512 

Consumer Products 
 422  
 458  
 457 

Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 376  
 351  
 332 

Net Sales 
$3,025  
$2,760  
$2,300 

  
    
    
   

Operating Income (Loss) 
    
    
   

Industrial Performance Products 
$137  
$119  
$91 

Industrial Engineered Products 
 130  
 25  
 3 

Consumer Products 
 26  
 67  
 63 

Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 30  
 21  
 42 

Segment Operating Income 
 323  
 232  
 199 

  
   
   
  

General corporate expense including amortization 
 (113) 
 (102) 
 (106)

Change in useful life of property, plant and equipment 
 -  
 (1) 
 - 

Facility closures, severance and related costs 
 (3) 
 (1) 
 (3)

Antitrust costs 
 -  
 -  
 (10)

Gain on sale of businesses 
 27  
 2  
 - 

Impairment charges 
 (4) 
 (57) 
 (39)

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 (3) 
 (35) 
 (73)

Total Operating Income (Loss) 
 227  
 38  
 (32)

  
    
    
   

Interest expense 
 (63) 
 (191) 
 (70)

Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
 -  
 (88) 
 - 

Other expense, net 
 -  
 (6) 
 (17)

Reorganization items, net 
 (19) 
 (303) 
 (97)

  
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 
 145  
 (550) 
 (216)

Income tax expense 
 (25) 
 (22) 
 (10)

  
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations 
 120  
 (572) 
 (226)

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (1) 
 (63)

Loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (12) 
 (3)

Net earnings (loss) 
 120  
 (585) 
 (292)

Less: net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 
 (1) 
 (1) 
 (1)

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$119  
$(586) 
$(293)

  
    
    
   

EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE - BASIC AND DILUTED - ATTRIBUTABLE TO CHEMTURA:   
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations 
$1.19  
$(2.58) 
$(0.93)

Loss from discontinued operations 
 -  
 -  
 (0.26)

Loss on sale of discontinued operations 
 -  
 (0.05) 
 (0.01)

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$1.19  
$(2.63) 
$(1.20)

  
    
    
   

Basic weighted-average shares outstanding 
 100.1  
 223.0  
 242.9 

  
    
    
   

Diluted weighted-average shares outstanding 
 100.3  
 223.0  
 242.9 

 

33
 

 
2011 COMPARED TO 2010
 
Overview
 
We reported consolidated net sales of $3 billion for the year ended
2011, which represents a $265 million increase over our consolidated net sales for 2010. We realized $213 million from higher selling
prices, reflecting the requirements to reinvest in and support growing customer demand in our Industrial segments and to recover
increases in raw material costs. Despite increased economic uncertainty and weaker electronics demand in the second half of the
year, net sales volumes increased by $30 million year-on-year. Sales volume growth was generated by our Industrial Performance
and Chemtura AgroSolutions segments, with sales volume decreases in our Industrial Engineered and Consumer Products segments. The
volume decline in our Consumer Products segment reflected the loss of a pool and spa mass market customer for the 2011 season.
Additionally, we benefited from $35 million in favorable foreign currency translation, primarily due to the strength of the Euro
in the first half of the year. These increases were offset by a $13 million reduction in sales as a result of the natural sodium
sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines in the third quarter of 2010.
 
Our gross profit as a percentage of net sales for 2011 remained
constant at 24% despite significant increases in our raw material and distribution costs. Gross profit for 2011 increased by $72
million over 2010 to $729 million. Increased selling prices generated a $213 million benefit, partially offset by a $110 million
increase in raw material and energy costs coupled with $40 million and $11 million in higher manufacturing and distribution costs,
respectively. Raw material costs in all of our segments experienced significant increases. Higher manufacturing costs in our Industrials
segments were due to lower production volumes in the second-half of the year, higher maintenance cost, certain weather related
plant outages in the third quarter and the relocation of certain manufacturing assets. We had a $15 million benefit from increased
sales volumes and changes to our sales mix largely in our Industrial Performance segment which were only partially offset by declines
in our Consumer Products segment. Gross profit increased by $10 million as a result of the favorable effects of selling our products
in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, but was offset in part by a $3 million reduction due to a divestiture in the third quarter
of 2010 and a $2 million increase in other costs.
 
Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expense
of $339 million was $24 million higher than in 2010. The increase was due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $22 million,
which principally reflected equity awards made under the various emergence incentive plans and an $8 million charge related to
an ongoing evaluation of a UK Pension benefit matter. In addition, our selling costs increased by $7 million over the prior year
as we invested to promote our growth. These increases were only partially offset by a $5 million decrease in legal expenses and
a $8 million decrease in all other expenses.
 
Depreciation and amortization expense of $140 million was $35 million
lower than the prior year, primarily due to accelerated depreciation incurred in 2010 related to our El Dorado, Arkansas facility
restructuring activities.
 
Research and development (“R&D”) expense of $43
million was $1 million higher than the prior year as a result of increased investment.
 
Facility closures, severance and related costs were $3 million in
2011 as compared with $1 million in 2010. The 2011 charges primarily related to severance costs of a restructuring plan to increase
the effectiveness of our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment. The 2010 costs were related to the ongoing execution of prior restructuring
initiatives.
 
Gain on sale of business of $27 million for 2011 related to the
sale of our 50% interest in Tetrabrom Technologies Ltd. Gain on sale of business of $2 million for 2010 related to the divestiture
of the natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines in the third quarter of that year.
 
We recorded impairment charges of $4 million in 2011 and $57 million
in 2010. The 2011 charge included the impairment of intangible assets of our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment and property, plant
and equipment related to our El Dorado, Arkansas facility. The 2010 charge included the impairment of goodwill within the Chemtura
AgroSolutions segment, resulting from weaker industry demand due to the global economic recession. These factors resulted in reduced
expectations for future cash flows resulting in lower estimated fair values for the respective assets.
 
Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims were $3
million for 2011 compared with $35 million for 2010. These charges included adjustments to liabilities subject to compromise, primarily
legal and environmental reserves, which were identified in the Chapter 11 claim evaluation and settlement processes. Recoveries
from insurance carriers were included in these changes in estimates once contingencies related to coverage disputes with the insurance
carriers were resolved and coverage was deemed probable. We recorded $32 million in 2010 related to insurance recoveries. The decrease
in activity in 2011 is due to the confirmation of the Plan in November 2010 leaving just a number of disputed claims to be resolved.
 

34
 

 
In 2010, we determined that it was probable that obligations for
interest on unsecured claims in the Chapter 11 proceedings would ultimately be paid based on the estimated claim recoveries reflected
in the Plan. As such, prior interest from the Petition Date was recorded in 2010. Additionally, in August 2010, we entered into
senior notes and a term loan to finance our emergence from Chapter 11. As a result, interest expense of $63 million in 2011 was
significantly lower than that incurred in 2010.
 
Other expense, net in 2011 was less than $1 million compared with
other expense, net of $6 million for the same period of 2010. Other expense primarily reflects foreign exchange gains or losses.
 
Reorganization items, net of $19 million in 2011 was $284 million
lower than in 2010. Expense in both years is principally comprised of professional fees directly associated with the Chapter 11
reorganization and the impact of the value of negotiated claims settlements. The decrease in 2011 reflects our emergence from Chapter
11 in November 2010.
 
The income tax expense from continuing operations in 2011 was $25
million, compared with $22 million in 2010. The tax expense reported in 2011 included a decrease in deferred foreign income taxes
of approximately $17 million that had been recorded in an international jurisdiction in prior years and an increase in foreign
income taxes of approximately $5 million relating to a foreign tax matter dating back to the 1990s. The $17 million tax benefit
was recorded after receiving approval from the international jurisdiction to change our filing position. In 2011 and 2010, we provided
a full valuation allowance against the tax expense associated with our U.S. net operating loss.
 
Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Chemtura
for 2011 was $119 million, or $1.19 per share as compared with a net loss from continuing operations attributable to Chemtura of
$573 million, or $2.58 per share for 2010.
 
The loss from discontinued operations in 2010 was related to the
divesture of the PVC additives business in April 2010.
 
The following is a discussion of our segment results:
 
Industrial Performance Products
 
The Industrial Performance segment benefited from higher sales volumes
driven by increased customer demand for petroleum additive products used in automotive, refrigeration and general industrial applications
and for urethane products used in mining, oil and gas and general industrial applications. The increased demand was predominately
in the first half of the year and weakened in the second half of the year as general economic conditions softened. We saw significant
increases in raw material costs throughout the year and higher manufacturing costs due to production issues experienced in the
first half of 2011. Increases in sales volumes and the cost of fuel surcharges resulted in higher distribution costs over last
year. The increase in these costs were effectively covered by selling price increases in all businesses throughout the year. We
continued to focus our efforts in providing value added products and services and invested our capital in the addition of resources
in our sales and technology areas to support our research and development efforts and offer improved customer support. In the third
quarter of 2010, this segment divested its natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines.
 
The Industrial Performance segment reported net sales of $1.4 billion
in 2011, a $135 million improvement over 2010. This growth was primarily driven by an $81 million benefit from higher selling prices
and a $56 million benefit from increased sales volume. The segment also benefitted from favorable foreign currency translation
of $11 million. These increases were partly offset by a $13 million reduction in net sales due to the divestiture of its natural
sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines in the third quarter of 2010.
 
Operating income totaled $137 million for 2011, an increase of $18
million over 2010. Improvement in our results reflected the higher selling prices, increased volume and changes in sales mix of
$27 million, lower costs associated with REACh (now that the first registration date has passed)of $2 million and a $1 million
benefit from favorable foreign currency translation. These benefits were partially offset by increases of $67 million in raw material
costs, $12 million in higher manufacturing costs, $3 million in higher distribution costs and $8 million in higher SG&A and
R&D (collectively “SGA&R”) costs. Operating income was reduced by $3 million due to the divestiture of our
natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines in the third quarter of 2010.
 

35
 

 
Industrial Engineered Products
 
Our Industrial Engineered segment reported overall lower volumes
in 2011 compared with 2010 due primarily to weaker demand in the second half of the year. The lower volumes were the result of
reduced demand for flame retardants used in printed wiring boards in the electrical and electronics industries and lower demand
for tin-based organometallics products. Sales volumes for our other organometallic products showed solid increases versus the prior
year. The segment experienced significant increases in raw material costs throughout the year, higher manufacturing costs due to
lower plant production volumes and higher plant maintenance costs, increased distribution costs due to rate increases and higher
SGA&R expense in sales and technology to support our growth initiatives. This segment aggressively increased selling prices
throughout 2011 to cover these cost increases as well as to support the required capacity reinvestments to ensure a sustainable
and reliable supply of products to our customers. The segment also benefited from the non-recurring expense incurred in 2010 related
to accelerated depreciation in our El Dorado, Arkansas facility.
 
Net sales for the Industrial Engineered segment were $869 million
in 2011. The $141 million increase from the prior year was largely the result of $139 million in higher selling prices, $12 million
in favorable foreign currency translation on products sold in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, partially offset by $10 million
in volume reductions.
 
Operating income of $130 million in 2011 reflected an improvement
of $105 million compared with $25 million in 2010. Improvements reflected significant higher selling prices, a favorable volume
and sales mix of $2 million, the favorable impact of foreign currency translation of $7 million and a $2 million decrease in other
costs. These benefits more than offset a $37 million increase in raw material costs, $21 million in higher manufacturing costs,
$5 million higher distribution costs and a $9 million increase in SGA&R costs. Additionally, 2011 comparisons were favorably
impacted by the $27 million incurred in non-recurring accelerated depreciation charges in 2010 related to our El Dorado, Arkansas
facility.
 
Consumer Products
 
Our Consumer Products segment was negatively impacted by the loss
of a mass market customer for the 2011 season, selling price reductions within the domestic mass market channel, tighter customer
management of their inventory requirements during the year and mixed weather conditions during the season. Lower production volumes
resulted in higher manufacturing costs. Reductions in our selling prices were the result of competition when bidding for the 2011
selling season.
 
Net sales for the Consumer Products segment were $422 million in
2011, which was $36 million below 2010. This decline is largely due to a $34 million decrease in volume and a $9 million reduction
in selling prices. These reductions were offset by $7 million in favorable foreign currency translation.
 
Consumer Products reported operating income of $26 million for 2011
which was $41 million below operating income of $67 million in 2010. The decline in operating income reflected the reductions in
sales price and volume of $9 million and $18 million, respectively. In addition, the segment experienced $12 million in increased
manufacturing costs and $6 million in increased raw material costs and a $1 million decrease in other costs. The segment benefited
from $3 million of favorable foreign currency translation and a $2 million reduction in accelerated depreciation expense.
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 
Our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment benefited from increases in sales
volume, particularly in our seed treatment and acaricides products and increased selling prices in North America. We also benefitted
from the non-recurring legal expenses that were partially offset by higher bad debt expense and start-up losses from our ISEM joint
venture in 2011.
 
Net sales rose by $25 million to $376 million in 2011 reflecting
the benefit of the $18 million growth in volume, $5 million related to favorable foreign currency translation and $2 million in
higher selling prices.
 
Operating income increased $9 million in 2011 to $30
million compared with $21 million in 2010. This increase is a reflection of the increase in sales volume of $5 million,
reductions in manufacturing costs of $5 million and the increase in selling prices noted above. Operating income was also
impacted by distribution costs increases of $4 million, equity losses from our ISEM joint venture of $2 million, the $1
million impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation and $1 million in higher accelerated depreciation cost, partially
offset by the $2 million   benefit from non-recurring legal expenses net of the higher bad debt expense and a $3 million
decrease in other costs.
 

36
 

 
General Corporate
 
Included in our general corporate expenses are costs of a general
nature or managed on a corporate basis. These costs (net of allocations to the business segments) primarily represent corporate
stewardship and administration activities together with costs associated with legacy activities and intangible asset amortization.
Functional costs are allocated between the business segments and general corporate expense.
 
Corporate expense was $113 million in 2011, which included $38 million
of amortization expense related to intangible assets. In comparison, corporate expense was $102 million in 2010 which included
$37 million of amortization expense related to intangible assets.
 
The $11 million increase in corporate expense was largely due to
a $12 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, principally the result of equity awards made under the emergence incentive
plans. These costs were partially offset by a reduction in environmental reserve adjustments required for 2011 as compared with
2010 and reduced U.S. post-retirement benefit plan expense for 2011.
 
2010 COMPARED TO 2009 
 
Overview
 
Consolidated net sales increased by $460 million to $2.8 billion
in 2010 compared with $2.3 billion in 2009. The increase in net sales was attributable to increased sales volumes of $422 million
and higher selling prices of $52 million, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $6 million and $8 million
in lost revenues related to the divestiture of the natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines. The increase
in sales volume was principally within the Industrial segments as the industries we supply through these segments were the most
severely affected by the economic recession in 2009 as demand declined sharply and customers undertook de-stocking in light of
the changes in the economy. By the second quarter of 2009, inventory de-stocking had ceased and some industry sectors, such as
electronics, started to show strong recovery which continued throughout 2010. However, in many of the industrial sectors exposed
to macroeconomic cyclicality, such as building and construction, the recovery had been modest and demand still significantly lagged
the levels seen before the onset of the recession.
 
Gross profit for 2010 was $657 million, an increase of $78 million
compared with $579 million in 2009. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to $86 million in higher sales volume (net of
product mix), $61 million of favorable manufacturing costs and $52 million from higher selling prices. These improvements were
partially offset by $79 million in higher raw material and energy costs, an $18 million increase in distribution costs, $7 million
related to costs associated with registration of chemicals in the European Union under REACh legislation, $4 million from unfavorable
foreign currency exchange, a $3 million environmental reserve adjustment, $2 million in lost income from the sale of the natural
sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines, a $1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and a $7 million
increase in other costs. Our results were impacted by increased raw material costs compared with the lower levels seen in the first
three quarters of 2009. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 24% in 2010, or 1% lower than 2009, mainly due to the increases
in raw material costs exceeding increases in selling prices.
 
SG&A expense of $315 million was $26 million higher than the
prior year, primarily due to higher selling and marketing expense, legal expenses, stock-based compensation expense, and a loss
on disposal of an asset. Approximately $6 million of the increase in SG&A expense related to expenses associated with the internal
review of customer incentive, commission and promotional payment practices in the European region. The increase in stock-based
compensation expense of $5 million primarily related to expense recognized in 2010 for the 2009 and 2010 emergence incentive plan
which were approved in 2010. The loss on disposal of an asset of $2 million in 2010 related to a software component of our SAP
system that we no longer utilized.
 
Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations
of $175 million was $13 million higher than the prior year. This includes accelerated depreciation related to restructuring activities
of $30 million in 2010 primarily within our Industrial Engineered segment, compared with accelerated depreciation of $5 million
in 2009 within our Consumer Products and Industrial Performance segments.
 
R&D expense of $42 million in 2010 was $7 million higher than
in 2009 as a result of increased investment in new product and technology development.
 
Facility closures, severance and related costs were $1 million in
2010 as compared with $3 million in 2009. These charges related to our ongoing execution of restructuring initiatives.
 

37
 

 
Antitrust costs were negligible in 2010 and $10 million in 2009.
The antitrust costs in 2009 primarily represented a judgment in litigation related to certain rubber chemical claimants and legal
costs associated with antitrust investigations and civil lawsuits.
 
The gain on sale of business of $2 million in 2010 related to the
sale of our natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines within our Industrial Performance segment.
  
We recorded impairment charges of $57 million in 2010 and $39 million
in 2009. The 2010 charge included the impairment of goodwill within the Chemtura AgroSolutions segment. The 2009 charge included
the impairment of goodwill of $37 million and the impairment of intangible assets of $2 million within the Consumer Products segment.
The impairment charges were principally the result of underperformance in these segments caused by weaker industry demand due to
the global economic recession. These factors resulted in reduced expectations for future cash flows and lower estimated fair values
for the respective assets.
 
Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims were $35
million in 2010 compared with $73 million in 2009. These changes included adjustments to liabilities subject to compromise (primarily
legal and environmental reserves) identified in the Chapter 11 proofs of claim evaluation and settlement process. Recoveries from
insurance carriers are included in these changes in estimates once contingencies related to coverage disputes with insurance carriers
had been resolved and coverage was deemed probable. We recorded $32 million in 2010 related to insurance coverage.
 
Interest expense of $191 million in 2010 was $121 million higher
than in 2009. The higher interest expense resulted from our determination that it was probable that obligations for interest on
unsecured bankruptcy claims would ultimately be paid based on the estimated claim recoveries reflected in the Plan filed during
the second quarter of 2010. As such, interest that had not previously been recorded since the Petition Date was recorded in the
second quarter of 2010. The amount of post-petition interest recorded in 2010 was $137 million (included in the amount is contractual
interest of $63 million relating to 2009), which represented the cumulative amount of interest accruing from the Petition Date
through the Effective Date. Additionally, we recorded interest expense incurred with respect to the Senior Notes and Term Loan.
These impacts were partially offset by lower financing costs under the Amended DIP Credit Facility entered into in February 2010.
 
Loss on early extinguishment of debt of $88 million in 2010 included
$70 million primarily related to the settlement of the make-whole and no-call claims on the pre-petition notes under the terms
of the Plan and $18 million related to the write-off of financing costs related to debt modifications resulting from the Term Loan
in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the DIP Credit Facility in the first quarter of 2010.
 
Other expense, net of $6 million in 2010 was $11 million lower than
in the prior year. The decrease in expense primarily reflected lower net foreign currency exchange losses and lower fees associated
with the termination of our accounts receivable financing facilities in 2009, partially offset by lower interest income. Foreign
currency exchange losses related to impacts on unhedged exposures due to our inability to enter into foreign currency hedge contracts
under the terms of our debt agreements while in Chapter 11.
 
Reorganization items, net in 2010 of $303 million primarily was
comprised of professional fees directly associated with the Chapter 11 reorganization and the impact of claims settlements related
to the consummation of our confirmed Plan. Reorganization items, net in 2009 was $97 million which included the write-off of pre-petition
debt discounts, premiums and debt issuance costs, professional fees directly associated with the Chapter 11 reorganization and
the write-off of deferred financing expenses related to the termination of the U.S. accounts receivable financing facility, partially
offset by gains on a settlement of pre-petition liabilities.
 
Our income tax expense in 2010 was $22 million compared with $10
million in 2009. The 2010 income tax expense was primarily related to our non-U.S. operations since we provided a full valuation
allowance against the tax benefit associated with our U.S. net operating loss. The 2009 income tax expense included an increase
to our valuation allowance and the impact of a decrease in the liability for an unrecognized tax benefit of $9 million as a result
of the expiration of the statute of limitation; bankruptcy claims adjustments and favorable audit settlements or payments related
to prior years.
 
Loss from continuing operations attributable to Chemtura for 2010
was $573 million or $2.58 per diluted share, as compared with a loss in 2009 of $227 million, or $0.93 per diluted share.
 

38
 

 
The loss from discontinued operations in 2010 was $1 million compared
with a loss from discontinued operations in 2009 of $63 million (net of a $6 million tax benefit), which reflected the operations
of the PVC additives business that was subsequently sold. The decrease in the loss from discontinued operations mainly related
to a $65 million impairment charge in 2009.
 
The loss on sale of discontinued operations in 2010 was $12 million
(net of a $1 million tax benefit), related to the PVC additives business which was sold in April 2010. The loss on sale of discontinued
operations in 2009 was $3 million (net of a $1 million tax benefit), which represented an adjustment for a loss contingency related
to the sale of the OrganoSilicones business in July 2003.
 
The following is a discussion of the results of our segments.
 
Industrial Performance Products
 
Industrial Performance segment net sales increased by $224 million
or 22% to $1.2 billion in 2010. Operating income increased by $28 million or 31% to $119 million in 2010.
 
The increase in net sales was driven primarily by increased sales
volume of $219 million and increased selling prices of $19 million, partially offset by $6 million in unfavorable foreign currency
translation and an $8 million reduction from the sale of the natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines. The
higher sales volume was driven by increased customer demand across all industry segments due to improved economic conditions and
general recoveries in the industrial applications we served compared with 2009, as well as strong growth in the Asia Pacific region.
 
Operating income increased due to a $49 million benefit from higher
sales volume from all businesses, a $36 million reduction in manufacturing costs, $19 million in increased selling prices, the
absence of $2 million in accelerated depreciation and a $1 million increase in equity income. These favorable trends were partly
offset by $47 million in higher raw material costs, a $14 million increase in distribution costs, $6 million in unfavorable foreign
currency translation, $5 million in higher SGA&R expense, a $5 million increase in REACh costs and a $2 million reduction in
income from the sale of the natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines.
 
Industrial Engineered Products
 
Industrial Engineered segment net sales increased by $216 million
or 42% to $728 million in 2010. Operating income increased by $22 million to $25 million in 2010.
 
The increase in net sales reflected $178 million increase in sales
volume from all businesses and $40 million in higher selling prices, partly offset by $2 million in unfavorable foreign currency
translation. Products sold to electronic applications showed the most dramatic year-over-year improvement together with a modest
recovery in demand from building and construction and consumer durable polymer applications from the low levels of demand in 2009.
 
Operating income increased primarily due to a $40 million increase
in selling prices, a $28 million benefit from higher sales volume (net of unfavorable product mix), a $20 million reduction in
manufacturing costs (primarily due to the higher plant utilization) and a $3 million increase in equity income. These favorable
items were partially offset by a $32 million increase in raw material costs, $28 million in accelerated depreciation related to
restructuring activities, $3 million in higher SGA&R expense, $3 million in unfavorable foreign currency exchange, $2 million
in higher REACh costs and $1 million in higher distribution costs.
 
Consumer Products
 
Consumer Products segment net sales increased $1 million to $458
million in 2010. Operating income increased $4 million to $67 million in 2010.
 
The increase in net sales was driven by increased sales volume of
$4 million and favorable foreign currency translation of $3 million, partially offset by lower selling prices of $6 million. The
North American recreational water products business benefited overall from a warmer and dryer summer in 2010 compared with 2009
driving higher volumes though dealer channels and many of our largest mass market customers. This revenue growth was offset in
part by reduced demand from certain mass market customers and lower household cleaner product sales.
 

39
 

 
Operating income increased due to $8 million in lower manufacturing
costs, $3 million from increased sales volume and favorable product mix, and $3 million in favorable foreign currency exchange.
These benefits were partially offset by $6 million in lower selling prices, a $1 million increase in raw material and energy costs,
a $1 million increase in distribution costs and a $2 million increase in other costs.
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions segment net sales increased by
$19 million or 6% to $351 million in 2010. However, operating profit of $21 million in 2010 decreased by $21 million compared with
2009. The increase in net sales reflected a $21 million benefit from higher sales volume, partly offset by lower selling prices
of $1 million and unfavorable foreign currency translation of $1 million. Demand in Europe was impacted by the reduced availability
of credit to growers in the first quarter of 2010, the impact of a prolonged winter and a drought in western Russia and the Ukraine.
Demand in both our North American and Asia Pacific regions improved significantly in 2010 while Latin America experienced flat
demand.
 
Operating income decreased due to $18 million in higher SGA&R
expense, $3 million of unfavorable manufacturing costs, a $3 million impact from an unfavorable decision in a long standing Canadian
trade dispute, $2 million in higher distribution costs, $1 million from lower selling prices and a $4 million increase in other
costs. These unfavorable items were partially offset by a $6 million benefit from higher sales volume, $2 million in lower raw
material costs and $2 million from favorable foreign currency translation. Approximately $6 million of the increase in SGA&R
expense related to expenses associated with the internal review of customer incentive, commission and promotional payment practices
in the European region. The remaining SGA&R increase related to R&D investments in new products and registrations and programs
to drive sales growth in subsequent periods.
 
General Corporate
 
Corporate expense was $102 million in 2010, which included $37 million
of amortization expense related to intangible assets. In comparison, corporate expense was $106 million in 2009, which included
$38 million of amortization expense related to intangible assets.
 
The $4 million decrease in corporate expense was primarily due to
reduced spending on information technology initiatives, which included completion of the Consumer Products segment SAP implementation
project and asset dispositions in 2009, and lower depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by higher expenses related
to European pension plans, environmental reserve adjustments and stock-based compensation expense.
 

40
 

 
Adjusted EBITDA
 
Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure that is not calculated or
presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). While we believe that such measures
are useful in evaluating our performance, investors should not consider them to be a substitute for financial measures prepared
in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the financial measures may differ from similarly titled financial measures used by other
companies and do not provide a comparable view of our performance relative to other companies in similar industries. Adjusted EBITDA
for 2011, 2010 and 2009 is calculated as follows:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$119  
$(586) 
$(293)

  
    
    
   

Plus: Interest expense 
 63  
 191  
 70 

Plus: Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
 -  
 88  
 - 

Plus: Other expense, net 
 -  
 6  
 17 

Plus: Reorganization items, net 
 19  
 303  
 97 

Plus: Income tax expense 
 25  
 22  
 10 

Plus: Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 1  
 63 

Plus: Loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 12  
 3 

Plus: Net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 
 1  
 1  
 1 

  
    
    
   

Operating income (loss) 
 227  
 38  
 (32)

  
    
    
   

Plus: Depreciation and amortization 
 140  
 175  
 162 

Plus: Operational facility closures, severance and related costs 
 3  
 1  
 3 

Plus: Antitrust costs 
 -  
 -  
 10 

Less: Gain on sale of business 
 (27) 
 (2) 
 - 

Plus: Impairment charges 
 4  
 57  
 39 

Plus: Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 3  
 35  
 73 

Plus: Non-cash stock-based compensation 
 26  
 8  
 3 

Plus: Loss on disposal of assets 
 1  
 2  
 - 

Plus: Other non-recurring adjustments 
 -  
 6  
 2 

Plus: UK pension benefit matter 
 8  
 -  
 - 

Adjusted EBITDA 
$385  
$320  
$260 

 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
On October 18, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors (the
“Board”) had authorized us to repurchase up to $50 million of our new common stock over the next twelve months. The
program, which does not obligate us to repurchase any particular amount of common stock, may be modified or suspended at any time
at the Board’s discretion. The manner, price, number and timing of such repurchases, if any, will be subject to a variety
of factors, including market conditions and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
As of December 31, 2011, the cumulative authorized repurchase allowance was $50 million, of which we had purchased 2 million shares
for $22 million. The remaining allowance under the program was approximately $28 million.
 
Emergence from Chapter 11
  
On March 18, 2009 (the “Petition Date”) Chemtura and
26 of our U.S. affiliates (collectively the “U.S. Debtors” or the “Debtors” when used in relation to matters
before August 8, 2010) filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (“Chapter
11”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”).
 
On August 8, 2010, our Canadian subsidiary, Chemtura Canada Co/Cie
(“Chemtura Canada”), filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11. On August 11, 2010 Chemtura Canada commenced
ancillary recognition proceedings under Part IV of the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act (the “CCAA”) in the
Ontario Superior Court of Justice, (the “Canadian Court” and such proceedings, the “Canadian Case”). The
U.S. Debtors along with Chemtura Canada after it filed for Chapter 11 (collectively the “Debtors”) requested the Bankruptcy
Court to enter an order jointly administering Chemtura Canada’s Chapter 11 case with the previously filed Chapter 11 cases
and appoint Chemtura Canada as the “foreign representative” for the purposes of the Canadian Case. Such orders were
granted on August 9, 2010. On August 11, 2010, the Canadian Court entered an order recognizing the Chapter 11 cases as a “foreign
proceedings” under the CCAA.
 

41
 

 
On November 3, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court entered
an order confirming the Debtors’ plan of reorganization (the “Plan”). On November 10, 2010 (the “Effective
Date”), the Debtors substantially consummated their reorganization through a series of transactions contemplated by the Plan
and the Plan became effective.
 
On June 10, 2011, we filed a closing report
in Chemtura Canada’s Chapter 11 case and a motion seeking a final decree closing that Chapter 11 case. On June 23, 2011,
the Bankruptcy Court granted our motion and entered a final decree closing the Chapter 11 case of Chemtura Canada.
 
On December 1, 2011, we
filed a motion requesting entry of an order granting a final decree closing the Chapter 11 cases of 22 Debtors (the “Fully
Administered Debtors”). On December 15, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order granting a final decree closing the Fully
Administered Debtors’ Chapter 11 cases.
 
On February 7, 2012, we filed a motion requesting entry of an order
granting a final decree closing the Chapter 11 cases for Bio-Lab, Inc. and GLCC Laurel, LLC.
 
For further
discussion of the Chapter 11 cases, see Note 18 – Emergence from Chapter 11 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Financing Facilities
 
In 2010, in order to fund our Plan, emerge from Chapter 11 and provide
for future capital needs, we obtained approximately $1 billion in financing. On August 27, 2010, we completed a private placement
offering under Rule 144A of $455 million aggregate principal amount of 7.875% senior notes due 2018 (the “Senior Notes”)
at an issue price of 99.269% in reliance on an exemption pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. We also entered
into a senior secured term facility credit agreement due 2016 (the “Term Loan”) with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative
agent, and other lenders party thereto for an aggregate principal amount of $295 million with an original issue discount of 1%.
The Term Loan permits us to increase the size of the facility by up to $125 million. On the Effective Date, we entered into a five-year
senior secured revolving credit facility available through 2015 (the “ABL Facility”) for an amount up to $275 million,
subject to availability under a borrowing base (with a $125 million letter of credit sub-facility). The ABL Facility permits us
to increase the size of the facility by up to $125 million subject to obtaining lender commitments to provide such increase. At
December 31, 2011, we had no borrowings under the ABL Facility, but we had $15 million of outstanding letters of credit (primarily
related to insurance obligations, environmental obligations and banking credit facilities) which utilizes available capacity under
the facility. At December 31, 2011 we had approximately $201 million of undrawn availability under the ABL Facility.
 
These facilities contain covenants that limit, among other things,
our ability to enter into certain transactions, such as creating liens, incurring additional indebtedness or repaying certain indebtedness,
making investments, paying dividends, and entering into acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures. The Term Loan requires that
we meet certain quarterly financial maintenance covenants including a maximum Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in the agreement)
of 2.5:1.0 and a minimum Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio (as defined in the agreement) of 3.0:1.0. The ABL Facility contains
a springing financial covenant requiring a minimum trailing 12-month fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0 at all times during
any period from the date when the amount available for borrowings under the ABL Facility falls below the greater of (i) $34 million
and (ii) 12.5% of the aggregate commitments until such date such available amount has been equal to or greater than the greater
of (i) $34 million and (ii) 12.5% of the aggregate commitments for 45 consecutive days. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance
with the covenant requirements of these financing facilities.
 
For further discussion of the financing facilities, see Note 8 –
Debt in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Accounts Receivable Financing Facility
 
On October 26, 2011, certain of our European subsidiaries (the “Sellers”)
entered into a trade receivables financing facility (the “A/R Financing Facility”) with GE Factofrance SAS as purchaser
(the “Purchaser”). Pursuant to the A/R Financing Facility, and subject to certain conditions stated therein, the Purchaser
has agreed to purchase from the Sellers, on a revolving basis, certain trade receivables up to a maximum amount outstanding at
any time of €68 million (approximately $88 million). The A/R Financing Facility is uncommitted and has an indefinite term.
Since availability under the A/R Financing Facility is expected to vary depending on the value of the Seller’s eligible trade
receivables, the Sellers’ availability under the A/R Financing Facility may increase or decrease from time to time. The monthly
financing fee on the drawn portion of the A/R Financing Facility is the applicable Base Rate plus 1.50%. In addition, the A/R Financing
Facility is subject to a minimum commission on the annual volume of transferred receivables. We had no outstanding borrowings under
the A/R Financing Facility, for the period ending December 31, 2011.
 

42
 

 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $182 million in 2011,
net cash used in operating activities was $204 million in 2010 and net cash provided by operating activities was $49 million in
2009. Changes in key accounts are summarized below:
 


Favorable (unfavorable) 
   
   
  

(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Accounts receivable 
$13  
$(77) 
$36 

Impact of accounts receivable facilities 
 -  
 -  
 (103)

Inventories 
 (24) 
 (36) 
 85 

Restricted cash 
 -  
 (38) 
 - 

Accounts payable 
 (11) 
 70  
 16 

Pension and post-retirement health care liabilities 
 (82) 
 (61) 
 (26)

Liabilities subject to compromise 
 (8) 
 (195) 
 (31)

 
During 2011, accounts receivable decreased by $13 million driven
by lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 for the Consumer Products, the antioxidants
product line of Industrial Performance and Chemtura AgroSolutions segments. There was an overall improvement in the our days sales
outstanding. Inventory increased $24 million during 2011 reflecting increased cost of raw materials, lower sales volumes and the
overall decrease in the reserves reflecting the efforts to reduce slow moving and obsolete goods. Accounts payable decreased by
$11 million during 2011 primarily due to the payment of approximately $23 million of Chapter 11 related legal and professional
fees accrued in 2010. There was a slight increase in the days payable outstanding. Pension and post-retirement health care liabilities
decreased due to the funding of benefit obligations. Contributions to our pension plans amounted to $96 million in 2011, including
$34 million for domestic plans and $62 million for the international plans. Liabilities subject to compromise related to operating
activities decreased by $8 million in 2011, primarily due to the payment in cash of certain pre-petition liabilities in accordance
with the Plan. Cash flows from operating activities in 2011 were adjusted by the impact of certain non-cash and other charges,
which primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of $140 million, a gain of the sale of a business of $27 million,
stock-based compensation expense of $26 million, provision for doubtful accounts of $7 million and impairment charges of $4 million.
 
During 2010, accounts receivable increased by $77 million. The increase
in accounts receivable was driven by increased volume principally within the Industrial Performance and Industrial Engineered segments
as the industries we supply in these segments were most severely affected by the economic slowdown in 2009 as demand declined sharply
and customers undertook de-stocking in light of the changes in the economy. With available liquidity in 2010, we were able to resume
our historic practice of building inventory ahead of the higher seasonal demand for some of our products and, as such, inventory
increased $36 million during 2010. Accounts payable increased by $70 million in 2010 primarily a result of growth in raw material
and capital purchases, improved vendor credit terms and timing of professional fee payments related to Chapter 11 proceedings.
Pension and post-retirement health care liabilities decreased by $61 million primarily due to the funding of benefit obligations.
Contributions amounted to $83 million in 2010, which included $69 million for domestic plans (includes a $50 million contribution
in accordance with the Plan) and $14 million for international plans. Liabilities subject to compromise related to operating activities
decreased by $195 million in 2010 (excluding pre-petition debt settlements), primarily due to the payment in cash of certain pre-petition
liabilities as part of the consummation of the Plan. Cash flows from operating activities in 2010 were adjusted by the impact of
certain non-cash and other charges, which primarily included reorganization items, net of $186 million, depreciation and amortization
expense of $175 million, contractual post-petition interest expense of $113 million, a loss on early extinguishment of debt of
$88 million (which included the settlement of certain “make-whole” and “no-call” claims), impairment charges
of $60 million, change in estimates related to expected allowable claims of $35 million, a deferred tax expense of $34 million,
a loss on sale of discontinued operations of $12 million and stock-based compensation expense of $10 million.
 

43
 

 
During 2009, we generated net cash from operating activities of
$49 million. The cash provided was a combination of our net loss of $292 million, adjusted for non-cash amounts during the period
including depreciation and amortization of $173 million, impairment charges of $104 million, changes in estimates related to expected
allowable claims of $73 million and reorganization items of $35 million. In addition, inventory decreased $85 million due to lower
raw material and energy costs as well as the execution of inventory reduction initiatives and lower demand, accounts receivable
decreased $36 million driven by reduced sales and the benefit of our collection efforts and accounts payable increased $16 million
primarily due to the timing of vendor payments. Offsetting these net inflows of cash was a decrease in proceeds from the sale of
accounts receivables under our accounts receivable financing facilities of $103 million (due to the termination of the U.S. accounts
receivable facility and restricted availability and access to our European accounts receivable financing facility), liabilities
subject to compromise were affected by payments of $31 million against prepetition liabilities and pension and post-retirement
healthcare liabilities decreased by $26 million, primarily due to contributions.
 
Cash Flows from Investing and Financing Activities
 
Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities was $181 million for 2011.
Investing activities were primarily related to $154 million in capital expenditures for U.S. and international facilities, environmental
and other compliance requirements, as well as payments related to the formation of joint ventures of $35 million, which included
$29 million for ISEM S.r.l. and $6 million for DayStar Materials, LLC, partially offset by $8 million received from the divestment
of the oleochemical business in 2008.
 
Net cash used in investing activities was $81 million for 2010.
Investing activities were primarily related to capital expenditures of $124 million for U.S. and foreign facilities, including
environmental and other compliance requirements, partially offset by proceeds of $43 million from the sale of the PVC additives
business and the sale of the natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines.
 
Net cash used in investing activities was $58
million for 2009, which reflected capital expenditures amounted to $56 million primarily related to U.S. and foreign facilities,
the enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) initiatives, and environmental and other compliance requirements, and $5 million
of net cash paid as deferred consideration for a prior year acquisition offset by net proceeds from prior year divestments of the
oleochemicals and fluorine chemicals businesses of $3 million.
 
Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities was $18 million for 2011,
which included shares acquired under our share repurchase program of $22 million offset by proceeds from short term borrowings
of $3 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $1 million.
 
Net cash provided by financing activities was
$251 million for 2010, which included proceeds from the Senior Notes of $452 million and proceeds from the Term Loan of $292 million
as part of the Chapter 11 exit financing. These items were offset by the net repayments on the Amended DIP Credit Facility and
DIP Credit facility of $251 million during 2010 which were paid in full; the cash repayment of pre-petition debt of $192 million;
debt issuance and refinancing costs of $40 million; and cash payments for the settlement of certain “make-whole” and
“no-call” claims of $10 million.
 
Net cash provided by financing activities was
$173 million for 2009, which included proceeds from the DIP Credit Facility of $250 million, partially offset by payments of debt
issuance costs on the DIP Credit Facility of $30 million, net repayments on the 2007 Credit Facility of $28 million, and net payments
on other borrowings of $19 million.
 
Settlements of Liabilities Subject to Compromise and Disputed
Claims
 
In 2011, we settled approximately $41 million of disputed claims
asserted in our Chapter 11 cases in $33 million of restricted cash and $8 million of cash. These settlements were comprised of
$27 million for environmental items, $10 million for general unsecured claims, $2 million for disputed cure claims and $2 million
for general unsecured claims subject to segregated reserves. Additionally we issued approximately $33 million of New Common Stock
for the settlement of certain other disputed claims in accordance with the Plan.
 
In 2010, we settled approximately $373 million of liabilities subject
to compromise in cash upon our bankruptcy emergence. Additionally we issued approximately $1.4 billion of New Common Stock for
the settlement of liabilities subject to compromise in accordance with the Plan.
 

44
 

 
Contractual Obligations and Other Cash Requirements
 
We have obligations to make future cash payments under contracts
and commitments, including long-term debt agreements, lease obligations, environmental liabilities, post-retirement health care
liabilities, facility closures, severance and related costs, and other long-term liabilities.
 
The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations
and other cash commitments as of December 31, 2011. Payments associated with bankruptcy claims not yet allowed in the Chapter 11
cases as of the Effective Date (referred to as disputed claims) have been excluded from the table below given the inherent uncertainties
associated with these claims.
 


(In millions) 
   
Payments Due by Period 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
2017 and 

Contractual Obligations* 
   
Total  
2012  
2013  
2014  
2015  
2016  
Thereafter 

Total debt (including capital leases) 
 (a)  
$756  
$6  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$295  
$455 

Operating leases 
 (b)  
 75  
 13  
 12  
 10  
 8  
 8  
 24 

Facility closures, severance and related cost liabilities 
 (c)  
 1  
 1  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Capital expenditures 
 (d)  
 20  
 20  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Interest payments 
 (e)  
 340  
 54  
 54  
 54  
 54  
 52  
 72 

Unconditional purchase obligations 
 (f)  
 6  
 2  
 2  
 1  
 1  
 -  
 - 

Subtotal - Contractual Obligations 
    
 1,198  
 96  
 68  
 65  
 63  
 355  
 551 

Environmental liabilities 
 (g)  
 89  
 19  
 18  
 11  
 8  
 6  
 27 

Post-retirement health care liabilities 
 (h)  
 116  
 10  
 9  
 9  
 9  
 9  
 70 

Unrecognized tax benefits 
 (i)  
 72  
 21  
 1  
 3  
 5  
 -  
 42 

Other long-term liabilities (excluding pension
    liabilities) 
    
 33  
 1  
 5  
 1  
 4  
 2  
 20 

Total cash requirements 
    
$1,508  
$147  
$101  
$89  
$89  
$372  
$710 

 

*Additional information is provided in various footnotes (including Debt, Leases, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, Pension
and Other Post-Retirement Plans, Restructuring and Asset Impairment Activities, and Income Taxes) in our Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 

(a)Our debt agreements include various notes and bank loans for which payments will be payable through 2018. The future minimum
lease payments under capital leases at December 31, 2011 were not significant. Obligations by period reflect stated contractual
due dates.

(b)Represents operating lease obligations primarily related to buildings, land and equipment. Such obligations are net of future
sublease income and will be expensed over the life of the applicable lease contracts.

(c)Represents estimated payments from accruals related to our cost reduction programs.

(d)Represents capital commitments for various open projects.

(e)Represents interest payments and fees related to our Senior Notes, Term Loan, ABL Facility and other debt obligations outstanding
at December 31, 2011. Assumed interest rates are based upon rates in effect at December 31, 2011.

(f)Primarily represents unconditional purchase commitments to purchase raw materials and tolling arrangements with outside vendors.

(g)We have ongoing environmental liabilities for future remediation and operating and maintenance costs directly related to remediation.
We estimate that the ongoing environmental liability could range up to $107 million. We have recorded a liability for ongoing environmental
remediation of $88 million at December 31, 2011.

(h)We have post-retirement health care plans that provide health and life insurance benefits to certain retired and active employees
and their beneficiaries. These plans are generally not pre-funded and expenses are paid by us as incurred, with the exception of
certain inactive government related plans that are paid from plan assets.

(i)We have recorded a liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $72
million at December 31, 2011 which do not reflect competent authority
offsets of $26 million, which are reflected as assets in our balance of unrecognized tax benefits.
 
During 2011, we made payments of $25 million and $2 million for
operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations, respectively.
 
We fund our defined benefit pension plans based on the minimum amounts
required by law plus additional voluntary contribution amounts we deem appropriate. Estimated future funding requirements are highly
dependent on factors that are not readily determinable. These include changes in legislation, returns earned on pension investments,
labor negotiations and other factors related to assumptions regarding future liabilities. In 2011, we made contributions of $83
million to our domestic and international pension plans and $11 million to our post-retirement benefit plans (including payments
made by us directly to plan participants). See “Critical Accounting Estimates” below for details regarding current
pension assumptions. To the extent that current assumptions are not realized, actual funding requirements may be significantly
different from those described below. The following table summarizes the estimated future funding requirements for defined benefit
pension plans under current assumptions:
 

45
 

 


  
Funding Requirements by Period 

(In millions) 
2012  
2013  
2014  
2015  
2016 

Qualified domestic pension plans 
$40  
$40  
$41  
$39  
$35 

International and non-qualified pension plans 
 34  
 23  
 23  
 10  
 10 

Total pension plans 
$74  
$63  
$64  
$49  
$45 

 
As previously disclosed, on December 22, 2010, the UK Pensions Regulator
issued a “warning notice” to us, stating their intent to request authority to issue a “financial support direction”
against us for the support of the benefit obligations under one of our UK pension plans. Our UK subsidiary that is responsible
for this plan has entered into definitive agreements with the trustees of that plan over the terms of a “recovery plan”
which provided for a series of additional cash contributions to be made to reduce its underfunding over time and the UK Pensions
Regulator withdrew the “warning notice.” The agreements provided, among other things, for our UK subsidiary to make
cash contributions of £60 million (approximately $95 million) in just over a three year period, with the initial contribution
of £30 million ($49 million) made in the second quarter of 2011. The agreements also provide for the granting of both a security
interest and a guarantee to support certain of the liabilities under this pension plan. Obligations associated with these payments
have been included in the above funding table.
 
There is also an evaluation being undertaken as to whether additional
benefit obligations exist in connection with the equalization of certain benefits under the UK Pension Plan that occurred in the
early 1990s. Based on the results of the evaluation to date, $8 million of expense has been recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011,
which may be subject to adjustment as further information is gathered as part of the evaluation. Upon completion of the evaluation
and the finalization of the liability with respect to additional benefit obligations, additional cash contributions to the UK Pension
Plan may be required starting in 2013.
 
We have substantial U.S. net operating losses (“NOLs”)
as described in Note 10 - Income Taxes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. While our utilization of these NOLs is subject
to annual federal NOL limitations under Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) Section 382, we expect they will substantially
reduce the amount of U.S. cash tax payments we are required to make in the foreseeable future.
 
Other Sources and Uses of Cash
 
We expect to
finance our continuing operations and capital spending requirements for 2012 with cash flows provided by operating activities,
available cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under our ABL Facility, utilization of the A/R Financing Facility and other sources.
Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011 were $180 million. 
 
Strategic Initiatives
 
We continually review each of our businesses, individually and as
part of our portfolio to determine whether to continue in, consolidate, reorganize, exit or expand our businesses, operations and
product lines. In each case, we examine whether, on a short-term or long-term basis, the business, operation or product line constitutes
a strategic fit with our products, contributed to our financial health and will achieve our business objectives. If it does not,
we will implement initiatives which may include, among other things, limiting or exiting the business, operation or product line,
consolidating operations or facilities or selling or otherwise disposing of the business or asset. Our review process also involves
expanding businesses, investing in innovative and regional growth, product lines and bringing new products to market or changing
the way do business.
 
The following items are the result of our newly implemented and
proposed business initiatives during 2011:
 

·On January 26, 2011, we announced the formation of ISEM S.r.l. (“ISEM”),
a strategic research and development alliance with Isagro S.p.A., which will provide us access to two commercialized products and
accelerate the development and commercialization of new active ingredients and molecules related to our Chemtura AgroSolutions
segment. ISEM is a 50/50 joint venture between us and Isagro S.p.A. and is being accounted for as an equity method investment.
Our investment in the joint venture was €20 million ($29 million), which was made in January 2011. In addition, we and Isagro
S.p.A. have agreed to jointly fund discovery and development efforts for ISEM, which is expected to amount to approximately $2
million per year from each partner for five years, which began in 2011. We will fund our contributions in part by a reduction in
our planned direct research and development spending starting in 2012.
 

46
 

 

·On February 1, 2011, we announced the formation of DayStar Materials,
LLC (“DayStar”), a joint venture with UP Chemical Co. Ltd. that will manufacture and sell high purity metal organic
precursors for the rapidly growing LED market in our Industrial Engineered Products segment. DayStar Materials, LLC is a 50/50
joint venture and is being accounted for as an equity method investment. We made cash contributions of $6 million in 2011, in accordance
with the joint venture agreement.
 

·On May 23, 2011, we announced the signing of a letter of intent with
Archean Group to establish a strategic alliance in bromine and brominated derivatives in India. This alliance is expected to strengthen
the brominated performance products business of our Industrial Engineered Products segment by providing it with a strong position
to respond to customer demand from a cost-competitive and consistent Indian supply.
 

·On June 6, 2011, we announced our intent to build a new multi-purpose
manufacturing facility in Nantong, China to support our growth strategy for the Asia-Pacific region. This new manufacturing capacity
will initially serve the petroleum additives and urethanes businesses within our Industrial Performance segment, and will allow
us to serve the growing regional demand for these product lines.
 

·On July 28, 2011, we announced our plan to establish a European manufacturing
capability for our Synton® line of high-viscosity polyalphaolefin (“HVPAO”) synthetic basestocks. This increased
capacity will support our ability to meet the increasing global demand for these products by locating production capacity in a
region of significant demand growth, and will enhance our service levels to continue to meet our customer commitments. Engineering
work has commenced to enable production of the Synton® 40 and Synton® 100 HVPAO products at our facility in Ankerweg, Amsterdam,
The Netherlands in 2013.
 

·On November 28, 2011, we sold our 50% interest in Tetrabrom Technologies
Ltd. for net consideration of $38 million. The consideration will be paid in equal annual installments over a three year period.
The first payment is due in April 2012. A pre-tax gain of $27 million was recorded on the sale.
 
Reorganization Items 
 
We recorded $19 million, $303 million and $97 million in 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. We incurred substantial expenses resulting from our Chapter 11 cases. Such amounts are presented as reorganization
items, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and represent the direct and incremental costs related to our Chapter 11 cases
such as professional fees, net, impacts related to the resolution of claims in the Chapter 11 cases and rejections or terminations
of executory contracts and real property leases. We will continue to incur reorganization related expenses in 2012 primarily for
professional fees, but at a much reduced amount until all outstanding claims are resolved. For additional information on reorganization
items, net, see Note 18 - Emergence from Chapter 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Guarantees
 
In addition to the letters of credit of $15 million and $12 million
outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, we have guarantees that have been provided to various financial institutions
at December 31, 2011 and 2010, of $10 million and $6 million, respectively. The letters of credit and guarantees were primarily
related to insurance obligations, environmental obligations, banking credit facilities, vendor deposits and European value added
tax (“VAT”) obligations. We also had $8 million and $15 million of third party guarantees at December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively, for which we have reserved $1 million and $2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which representing
the probability weighted fair value of these guarantees.
 
In addition, the Company has a financing agreement with a bank in
Brazil for certain customers under which the Company receives funds from the bank at invoice date, and in turn, the customer agrees
to pay the bank on the due date.  The Company provides a full recourse guarantee to the bank in the event of customer non-payment.
 
Critical Accounting ESTIMATES
 
Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity
with GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts and disclosures reported in our Consolidated
Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Accounting estimates and assumptions described in this section are those we consider
to be the most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because they inherently involve significant judgments and
uncertainties. For all of these estimates, we note that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and the best estimates
routinely require adjustment. Actual results could differ from such estimates. The following discussion summarizes our critical
accounting estimates. Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements are discussed
in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

47
 

 
Carrying
Value of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets
 
We have elected to perform our annual goodwill impairment procedures
for all of our reporting units in accordance with ASC Subtopic 350-20, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other - Goodwill
(“ASC 350-20”) as of July 31, or sooner, if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce
the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units utilizing income
and market approaches through the application of discounted cash flow and market comparable methods (Level 3 inputs as described
in Note 16 – Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements). The assessment is required to be performed in two steps:
step one to test for a potential impairment of goodwill and, if potential impairments are identified, step two to measure the impairment
loss through a full fair value allocation of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit utilizing the acquisition method
of accounting.
 
We continually monitor and evaluate business and competitive conditions
that affect our operations and reflect the impact of these factors in our financial projections. If permanent or sustained changes
in business or competitive conditions occur, they can lead to revised projections that could potentially give rise to impairment
charges.
 
We recorded asset impairment charges of $4 million, $60 million
and $104 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note - 3 Restructuring and Asset Impairment Activities in our Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Environmental Matters
 
We are involved in environmental matters of various types in a number
of jurisdictions. A number of such matters involve claims for material amounts of damages and relate to or allege environmental
liabilities, including cleanup costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites and natural resource damages. As part of the
Chapter 11 cases, under the Plan, the Debtors retained responsibility for environmental cleanup liabilities relating to currently
owned or operated sites (i.e. sites that were part of the Debtors’ estates) and, with certain exceptions, discharged or settled
liabilities relating to formerly owned or operated sites (i.e. sites that were no longer part of the Debtors’ estates) and
third-party sites (i.e. sites that never were part of the Debtors’ estates).
 
Each quarter, we evaluate and review estimates for future remediation,
operation and management costs directly related to remediation, to determine appropriate environmental reserve amounts. For each
site where the cost of remediation is probable and reasonably estimable, we determine the specific measures that are believed to
be required to remediate the site, the estimated total cost to carry out the remediation plan, the portion of the total remediation
costs to be borne by us and the anticipated time frame over which payments toward the remediation plan will occur. At sites where
we expect to incur ongoing operation and maintenance expenditures, we accrue on an undiscounted basis for a period of generally
10 years, those costs which are probable and reasonably estimable.
 
As of December 31, 2011, our reserve for ongoing environmental remediation
activities totaled $88 million. We estimate that ongoing environmental liabilities could range up to $107 million at December 31,
2011. Our ongoing reserves include estimates for determinable clean-up costs. At a number of these sites, the extent of contamination
has not yet been fully investigated or the final scope of remediation is not yet determinable.
 
In addition, it is possible that our estimates for environmental
remediation liabilities may change in the future should additional sites be identified, further remediation measures be required
or undertaken, current laws and regulations be modified or additional environmental laws and regulations be enacted.
 
We intend to assert all meritorious legal defenses and will pursue
other equitable factors that are available with respect to these matters. The resolution of environmental matters asserted against
us could require us to pay remedial costs or damages, which are not currently determinable, that could exceed our present estimates,
and as a result could have, either individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows.
 

48
 

 
Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits Expense
 
As part of our financial restructuring
under Chapter 11, we proposed reductions in the caps on the level of domestic postretirement medical benefits a group of retirees,
the Uniroyal salaried retirees, which the modifications have not yet been approved by the Bankruptcy Court and are therefore not
reflected in the financial position, or in any of the estimates presented in this discussion. In November 2011, we reached
an agreement in principle with the steering committee of the Uniroyal salaried retirees, resolving all disputes concerning our
motion requesting authorization to modify certain post-retirement welfare benefits. The agreement in principle remains subject
to documentation, execution by the parties and Bankruptcy Court approval upon notice to all Uniroyal salaried retirees.
For more information about the proposed settlement, see Note 14 – Pension and Other Post-Retirement Plans in our Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Our calculation of pension and other post-retirement benefits expense
is dependent on a number of assumptions. These assumptions include discount rates, health care cost trend rates, expected long-term
rates of return on plan assets, mortality rates, expected salary and wage increases, and other relevant factors.  Components
of pension and other post-retirement benefits expense include interest and service costs on the pension and other post-retirement
benefit plans, expected return on plan assets and amortization of certain unrecognized costs and obligations.  Actual results
that differ from the assumptions utilized are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect recognized
expense and the recorded obligation in future periods.  While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences
in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions would affect our pension and other post-retirement benefits costs and
obligations.
 
Pension Plans
 
Pension liabilities are measured on a discounted basis and the assumed
discount rate is a significant assumption. At each measurement date, the discount rate is based on interest rates for high-quality,
long-term corporate debt securities with maturities comparable to our liabilities. At December 31, 2011, we utilized a discount
rate of 4.60% for our domestic qualified pension plan compared to 5.10% at December 31, 2010.  For the international
and non-qualified plans, a weighted average discount rate of 4.85% was used at December 31, 2011, compared to 5.25% used at December
31, 2010. As a sensitivity measure, a 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate for all plans would result in less than a million
decrease in pre-tax earnings for 2012.
 
Domestic discount rates adopted at December 31, 2011 utilized an
interest rate yield curve to determine the discount rate pursuant to guidance codified under ASC Topic 715, Defined Benefit
Plans (“ASC 715”). The yield curve is comprised of AAA/AA bonds with maturities between zero and thirty years. 
We discounted the annual cash flows of our domestic pension plans using this yield curve and developed a single-point discount
rate matching the respective plan’s payout structure.
 
A similar approach was used to determine the appropriate discount
rates for the international plans. The actual method used varies from country to country depending on the amount of available information
on bond yields to be able to estimate a single-point discount rate to match the respective plan’s benefit disbursements.
 
Our weighted average estimated rate of compensation increase was
3.88% for applicable domestic and international pension plans combined at December 31, 2011.  As a sensitivity measure, an
increase of 25 basis points in the estimated rate of compensation increase would decrease pre-tax earnings for 2012 by an immaterial
amount.
 
The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our investment
strategy, historical experience, and expectations for long-term rates of return. We determine the expected rate of return on plan
assets for the domestic and international pension plans by applying the expected returns on various asset classes to our target
asset allocation.
 
We utilized a weighted average expected long-term rate of return
of 7.75% on all domestic plan assets and a weighted average rate of 6.80% for the international plan assets for the year ended
December 31, 2011.
 
Historical returns are evaluated based on an arithmetic average
of annual returns derived from recognized passive indices, such as the S&P 500, for the major asset classes. We looked at the
arithmetic averages of annual investment returns from passive indices, assuming a portfolio of investments that follow the current
target asset allocation for the domestic plans over several business cycles, to obtain an indication of the long-term historical
market performance. The arithmetic average return over the past 20 years was 7.99%, and over the past 30 years it was 10.83%. Both
of these values exceeded the 7.75% domestic expected return on assets.
 
The high volatility of stock markets as well as the drop in bond
yields in 2011 impacted the investment performance of our pension plan assets. The actual annualized return on plan assets for
the domestic plans for the 12 months ended December 31, 2011 was approximately 11.3% (net of investment expenses), which was above
the expected return on asset assumption for the year. The international plans realized a weighted average return of approximately
3.9% in local currency terms and approximately 2.7% in U.S. dollar terms . This resulted in currency losses of approximately $4
million on plan assets, which were partially offset by currency gains of approximately $3 million on benefit obligations for the
international pension arrangements.
 


49
 


 
Our target asset allocation for the domestic pension plans is based
on investing 50% of plan assets in equity instruments, 45% of plan assets in fixed income investments and 5% in real estate. At
December 31, 2011, 42% of the portfolio was invested in equities, 51% in fixed income investments and 7% in real estate and other
investments.
 
We have unrecognized actuarial losses relating to our pension plans
which have been included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet, but not in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The extent to
which these unrecognized actuarial losses will impact future pre-tax earnings depends on whether the unrecognized actuarial losses
are deferred through the asset-smoothing mechanism (the market related value as defined by ASC Topic 715-30, Defined Benefit
Plans – Pensions (“ASC 715-30”)), or through amortization in pre-tax earnings to the extent that they exceed
a 10% amortization corridor, as defined by ASC 715-30, which provides for amortization over the average remaining participant career
or life. The amortization of unrecognized net losses existing as of December 31, 2011 will result in a $17 million decrease to
pre-tax earnings for 2012 ($15 million for the qualified domestic plans and $2 million for the international and non-qualified
plans). Since future gains and losses beyond 2011 are a result of various factors described herein, it is not possible to predict
with certainty to what extent the combination of current and future losses may exceed the 10 percent amortization corridor and
thereby be subject to further amortization. At the end of 2011, unrecognized net losses amounted to $399 million for the qualified
domestic plans and $73 million for the international and non-qualified plans. Of these amounts, $5 million of unrecognized gains
for the domestic plans and $4 million of unrecognized losses for the international plans are deferred through the asset smoothing
mechanism as required by ASC 715.
 
The pre-tax pension expense for all pension plans was $12 million
in 2011. Pension (income) expense is calculated based upon certain assumptions including discount rate, expected long-term rate
of return on plan assets, mortality rates and expected salary and wage increases.  Actual results that differ from the current
assumptions utilized are accumulated and amortized over future periods and will affect pension expense in future periods. 
The following table estimates the future pension expense, based upon current assumptions:
 


  
Pension Expense (Income) By Year 

(In millions) 
2012  
2013  
2014  
2015  
2016 

Qualified domestic pension plans 
$4  
$3  
$(2) 
$(8) 
$(13)

International and non-qualified pension plans 
 4  
 4  
 2  
 1  
 (1)

Total pension plans 
$8  
$7  
$-  
$(7) 
$(14)

 
The following tables show the impact of a 100
basis point change in the actual return on assets on the pension (income) expense.
 



  
Change in Pension Expense (Income) By Year 

  
2012  
2013  
2014  
2015  
2016 

Increase (decrease) 
100 Basis Point Increase in Investment
    Returns 

Qualified domestic pension plans 
$-  
$-  
$(1) 
$(1) 
$(2)

International and non-qualified pension plans 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (1) 
 (1)

Total pension plans 
$-  
$-  
$(1) 
$(2) 
$(3)

 


Increase (decrease) 
100 Basis Point Decrease in Investment
    Returns 

Qualified domestic pension plans 
$-  
$-  
$1  
$1  
$2 

International and non-qualified pension plans 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1  
 1 

Total pension plans 
$-  
$-  
$1  
$2  
$3 

 
Other Post-Retirement Benefits
 
We provide post-retirement health and life insurance benefits for
current retired and active employees and their beneficiaries and covered dependents for certain domestic and international employee
groups.
 
The discount rates we adopted for the valuation of the post-retirement
health care plans were determined using the same methodology as for the pension plans. At December 31, 2011, we utilized a weighted
average discount rate of 4.26% for post-retirement health care plans, compared to 4.78% at December 31, 2010. As a sensitivity
measure, a 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate would result in less than a million impact in pre-tax earnings for 2012.
 

50
 

 
Assumed health care cost trend rates are based on past and current
health care cost trends, considering such factors as health care inflation, changes in health care utilization or delivery patterns,
technological advances, and the overall health of plan participants.  We use health care trend cost rates starting with a
weighted average initial level of 7.5% for the domestic arrangements and grading down to an ultimate level of 5%. For the international
arrangements, the weighted average initial rate is 8.50%, grading down to 5%.
 
The pre-tax post-retirement healthcare expense was $2 million in
2011.  The following table summarizes projected post-retirement benefit expense based upon the various assumptions discussed
above.
 


(In millions) 
Pre-Tax Expense by Year 

  
2012  
2013  
2014  
2015  
2016 

Domestic and international post-retirement benefit plans 
$3  
$3  
$2  
$2  
$2 

 
Income
Taxes 
 
Income taxes payable reflect our current tax provision and management’s
best estimate of the current tax liability relating to the outcome of uncertain tax positions. If the actual outcome of uncertain
tax positions differs from our best estimates, an adjustment to income taxes payable could be required, which may result in additional
income tax expense or benefit.
 
We record deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences
between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the
periods in which the deferred tax liability or asset is expected to be settled or realized. We also record deferred tax assets
for the expected future tax benefits of net operating losses and income tax credit carryforwards.
 
Valuation allowances are established when we determine that it is
more likely than not that the results of future operations will not generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred
tax assets. We consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax assets and liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax
planning strategies in making this assessment. Thus, changes in future results of operations could result in adjustments to our
valuation allowances.
 
We consider undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries
to be indefinitely invested in their operations. At December 31, 2011, such undistributed earnings amounted to $753 million. As
a result of our emergence from Chapter 11 in 2010, and the significant reduction in debt, we have determined that we will no longer
need to repatriate certain undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to fund U.S. operations. Also, we have plans to invest
such undistributed earnings indefinitely. As such, the amount of foreign subsidiaries undistributed earnings considered to be indefinitely
invested in their foreign operations has increased. The effect of such change in the year ended December 31, 2011 is a reduction
of $3 million in U.S. deferred income tax liability on such undistributed earnings. In 2011, this reduction in U.S. taxes on unremitted
foreign earnings has been offset by an equal increase in the valuation allowance related to U.S. deferred tax assets, and as such
had no net effect on tax expense recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Repatriation of undistributed earnings,
currently deemed indefinitely reinvested, would require us to accrue and pay taxes in the future. Estimating the tax liability
that would arise if these earnings were repatriated is not practicable at this time.
 
We file income tax returns in the U.S (including federal and state)
and foreign jurisdictions. The income tax returns for our entities taxable in the U.S. and significant foreign jurisdictions are
open for examination and adjustment. We assess our income tax positions and record a liability for all years open to examination
based upon our evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The economic benefit associated
with a tax position will only be recognized if it is more likely than not that a tax position ultimately will be sustained. We
adjust these liabilities, if necessary, upon the completion of tax audits or changes in tax law.
 
We have a liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $46 million
and $41 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This increase is primarily related to a foreign tax matter dating
back to the 1990s.
 

51
 

 
Accounting Developments
 
For information on accounting developments, see Note 1 – Nature
of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
OUTLOOK 
 
Our vision is to create a focused portfolio of global specialty
chemical businesses that provide sustainable competitive advantage and continued growth opportunities through superior innovation,
reliability, and applied science, making Chemtura indispensable to its stakeholders. We will deliver continuous value-accreting
growth by leveraging our in-depth knowledge and expertise in the electronics and energy, transportation and agriculture industries,
achieving geographic balance through investment in the faster growing regions and utilizing a systematic process of product and
application innovation and extension.
 
We ended 2011 with our Industrial segments experiencing softer demand
condition and experiencing reduced demand from the electronics industry, particularly in the production of printed wiring boards.
Demand from our industrial customers so far in 2012 has been comparable to what we saw in the second half of 2011 and we have not
yet seen recovery in the electronics markets. We expect industrial demand to begin to recover before summer and then build in the
second half of the year. In this environment, the challenge for our Industrial segments will be to match 2011 performance in the
first half of 2012 and then surpass 2011 in the second half of the year. Our Industrial segments expect to deliver improvement
for 2012 as a whole. A more positive economic environment will provide more rapid performance improvement.
 
We expect stronger performance from our Consumer Products and Chemtura
AgroSolutions segments in 2012. Our Consumer Products segment has regained the mass market customer it lost for the 2011 season
and introduced new products and brands. The anticipated increase in sales volume is expected to drive stronger performance in 2012.
Chemtura AgroSolutions has extended its product offerings, gained new product registrations and strengthened its distribution channels.
The resulting new product introductions in 2012 is expected to drive further recovery by this segment over that achieved in 2011.
 
With the benefit of these performance trends, we expect 2012 to
be another year of improvement, keeping us on track to achieve our objective of step-change growth in both revenue and profitability.
 
There are a number of risks to achieving our business plans as described
in Item 1A - Risk Factors and summarized below in Forward Looking Statements.
 
Forward-Looking
Statements
 
In addition to historical information, this Report contains “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of Section 27(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21(e) of
the Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. We use words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,”
“estimate,” “expect,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,”
“plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking
statements. Such statements include, among others, those concerning our expected financial performance and strategic and operational
plans, as well as all assumptions, expectations, predictions, intentions or beliefs about future events. You are cautioned that
any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that a number of risks and uncertainties could
cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
 
Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:

·The cyclical nature of the global chemicals industry;

·Increases in the price of raw materials or energy and our ability
to recover cost increases through increased selling prices for our products;

·Disruptions in the availability of raw materials or energy;

·Our ability to implement our growth strategies in rapidly growing
markets;

·Our ability to obtain the requisite regulatory and other approvals
to implement the plan to build a new multi-purpose manufacturing facility in Nantong, China;

·Declines in general economic conditions;

·The European debt crisis;

·The ability to comply with product registration
requirements of regulatory authorities, including the U.S. food and drug administration (the “FDA”) and European Union
REACh legislation; 

·The effect of adverse weather conditions;

·The ability to grow profitability in our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment;
 

52
 

 

·Demand for Chemtura AgroSolutions segment products being affected
by governmental policies;

·Current and future litigation, governmental investigations, prosecutions
and administrative claims;

·Environmental, health and safety regulation matters;

·Federal regulations aimed at increasing security at certain chemical
production plants;

·Significant international operations and interests;

·Our ability to maintain adequate internal controls over financial
reporting;

·Exchange rate and other currency risks;

·Our dependence upon a trained, dedicated sales force;

·Operating risks at our production facilities;

·Our ability to protect our patents or other intellectual property
rights;

·Whether our patents may provide full protection against competing
manufacturers;

·Our ability to remain technologically innovative and to offer improved
products and services in a cost-effective manner;

·The risks to our joint venture investments resulting from lack of
sole decision making authority;

·Our unfunded and underfunded defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement
welfare benefit plans;

·Risks associated with possible climate change legislation, regulation
and international accords;

·The ability to support the carrying value of the goodwill and long-lived
assets related to our businesses;

·Whether we repurchase any additional shares of our common stock that
our Board of Directors has authorized us to purchase over twelve months and the terms on which any such repurchases are made;

·Our ability to execute on our long range plans; and


·Other risks and uncertainties detailed in Item 1A. Risk Factors in
our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
These statements are based on our estimates and assumptions and
on currently available information. The forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future
results of operations, and our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed. Forward-looking information
is intended to reflect opinions as of the date this Form 10-K was filed. We undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements
to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our operations.
 

53
 

 
Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk
 
Our activities expose our earnings, cash flows and financial condition
to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and energy prices.
We have short-term exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates resulting from transactions entered into by us and our
foreign subsidiaries in currencies other than their local currency (primarily trade payables and receivables). We are also exposed
to currency risk on intercompany transactions (including intercompany loans). We manage these transactional currency risks on a
consolidated basis, which allows us to net our exposure. As a result of the Chapter 11 filing, our ability to hedge changes in
foreign currency exchange rates resulting from transactions was restricted beginning in the first quarter of 2009. Now that we
have emerged from Chapter 11, we may implement foreign exchange risk management programs during 2012 within what is permitted under
our financing agreements.
 
When we are permitted by our financing agreements to enter into
foreign currency forward and other contracts, such contracts generally are settled on a monthly basis. Realized and unrealized
gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net, to offset the impact of valuing
recorded foreign currency trade payables, receivables and intercompany transactions. We do not enter into derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. No derivatives were outstanding as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
The net effect of the realized and unrealized foreign currency gains
and losses resulted in a pre-tax loss of $2 million, $11 million and $22 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
The following table provides information about our financial instruments
that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest
rates by stated maturity date for our debt. Weighted-average variable interest rates are based on the applicable floating rate
index as of December 31, 2011.
 
Interest Rate Sensitivity
 


  
   
   
   
   
   
2017 and  
   
Fair Value 

(In millions) 
2012  
2013  
2014  
2015  
2016  
Thereafter  
Total  
at 12/31/11 

Total debt: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Fixed rate debt 
$-  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$455  
$455  
$473 

Average interest rate 
 7.88% 
 7.88% 
 7.88% 
 7.88% 
 7.88% 
 7.88% 
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Variable rate debt 
$6  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$295  
$-  
$301  
$301 

Average interest rate (a) 
 5.57% 
 5.50% 
 5.50% 
 5.50% 
 5.50% 
 0.00% 
    
   

 

(a)Average interest rate is based on rates in effect at December 31, 2011.
 

54
 

 
Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

 
CHEMTURA CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Operations
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
(In millions, except per share data)
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

NET SALES 
$3,025  
$2,760  
$2,300 

  
    
    
   

COSTS AND EXPENSES 
    
    
   

Cost of goods sold 
 2,296  
 2,103  
 1,721 

Selling, general and administrative 
 339  
 315  
 289 

Depreciation and amortization 
 140  
 175  
 162 

Research and development 
 43  
 42  
 35 

Facility closures, severance and related costs 
 3  
 1  
 3 

Antitrust costs 
 -  
 -  
 10 

Gain on sale of business 
 (27) 
 (2) 
 - 

Impairment charges 
 4  
 57  
 39 

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 3  
 35  
 73 

Equity income 
 (3) 
 (4) 
 - 

  
    
    
   

OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) 
 227  
 38  
 (32)

Interest expense (a) 
 (63) 
 (191) 
 (70)

Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
 -  
 (88) 
 - 

Other expense, net 
 -  
 (6) 
 (17)

Reorganization items, net 
 (19) 
 (303) 
 (97)

  
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 
 145  
 (550) 
 (216)

Income tax expense 
 (25) 
 (22) 
 (10)

  
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations 
 120  
 (572) 
 (226)

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (1) 
 (63)

Loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (12) 
 (3)

Net earnings (loss) 
 120  
 (585) 
 (292)

  
    
    
   

Less: net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 
 (1) 
 (1) 
 (1)

  
    
    
   

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$119  
$(586) 
$(293)

  
    
    
   

BASIC AND DILUTED PER SHARE INFORMATION - ATTRIBUTABLE TO CHEMTURA: 
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax 
$1.19  
$(2.58) 
$(0.93)

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 -  
 (0.26)

Loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (0.05) 
 (0.01)

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$1.19  
$(2.63) 
$(1.20)

  
    
    
   

Basic weighted - average shares outstanding 
 100.1  
 223.0  
 242.9 

  
    
    
   

Diluted weighted - average shares outstanding 
 100.3  
 223.0  
 242.9 

  
    
    
   

AMOUNTS ATTRIBUTABLE TO CHEMTURA STOCKHOLDERS: 
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax 
$119  
$(573) 
$(227)

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (1) 
 (63)

Loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (12) 
 (3)

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$119  
$(586) 
$(293)

 

(a)During 2010, $137 million of contractual interest expense was recorded relating to interest obligations on unsecured claims
for the period March 18, 2009 through the November 10, 2010 that, as of the second quarter of 2010, were considered probable of
being paid based on the plan of reorganization filed and later confirmed. Included in this amount is contractual interest expense
of $63 million for 2009.
 
See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

55
 

 
CHEMTURA CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Balance
Sheets
As of December 31, 2011
and 2010
(In millions, except par value data)
 


  
2011  
2010 

ASSETS 
    
   

  
    
   

CURRENT ASSETS 
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$180  
$201 

Restricted cash 
 5  
 32 

Accounts receivable 
 458  
 489 

Inventories 
 542  
 528 

Other current assets 
 136  
 171 

Total current assets 
 1,321  
 1,421 

  
    
   

NON-CURRENT ASSETS 
    
   

Property, plant and equipment 
 752  
 716 

Goodwill 
 174  
 175 

Intangible assets, net 
 392  
 429 

Non-current restricted cash 
 -  
 6 

Other assets 
 216  
 166 

  
    
   

Total Assets 
$2,855  
$2,913 

  
    
   

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
    
   

  
    
   

CURRENT LIABILITIES 
    
   

Short-term borrowings 
$5  
$3 

Accounts payable 
 173  
 191 

Accrued expenses 
 194  
 281 

Income taxes payable 
 18  
 14 

Total current liabilities 
 390  
 489 

  
    
   

NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 
    
   

Long-term debt 
 748  
 748 

Pension and post-retirement health care liabilities 
 460  
 498 

Other liabilities 
 211  
 207 

Total liabilities 
 1,809  
 1,942 

  
    
   

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
    
   

Common stock - $.01 par value 
    
   

Authorized - 500.0 shares 
    
   

Issued - 98.3 shares in 2011 and 95.6 shares in 2010 
 1  
 1 

Additional paid-in capital 
 4,353  
 4,305 

Accumulated deficit 
 (2,949) 
 (3,068)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
 (346) 
 (276)

Treasury stock at cost - 2.0 shares in 2011 
 (22) 
 - 

Total Chemtura stockholders' equity 
 1,037  
 962 

  
    
   

Non-controlling interests 
 9  
 9 

Total stockholders' equity 
 1,046  
 971 

  
    
   

Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity 
$2,855  
$2,913 

 
See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

56
 

 
CHEMTURA CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows
Years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009
 (In millions)
 


Increase (decrease) in cash 
2011  
2010  
2009 

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
   

Net earnings (loss) 
$120  
$(585) 
$(292)

Adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss) to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: 
    
    
   

Gain on sale of business 
 (27) 
 (2) 
 - 

Loss on sale of discontinued operations 
 -  
 12  
 3 

Impairment charges 
 4  
 60  
 104 

Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
 -  
 88  
 - 

Depreciation and amortization 
 140  
 175  
 173 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 26  
 10  
 3 

Reorganization items, net 
 2  
 186  
 35 

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 3  
 35  
 73 

Non-cash contractual post-petition interest expense 
 -  
 113  
 - 

Provision for doubtful accounts 
 7  
 3  
 5 

Equity income 
 (3) 
 (4) 
 - 

Deferred taxes 
 (6) 
 34  
 - 

Changes in assets and liabilities, net: 
    
    
   

Accounts receivable 
 13  
 (77) 
 36 

Impact of accounts receivable facilities 
 -  
 -  
 (103)

Inventories 
 (24) 
 (36) 
 85 

Restricted cash 
 -  
 (38) 
 - 

Other current assets 
 38  
 11  
 (4)

Other assets 
 3  
 (5) 
 (11)

Accounts payable 
 (11) 
 70  
 16 

Accrued expenses 
 (39) 
 36  
 (15)

Income taxes payable 
 5  
 (18) 
 (28)

Pension and post-retirement health care liabilities 
 (82) 
 (61) 
 (26)

Liabilities subject to compromise 
 (8) 
 (195) 
 (31)

Other liabilities 
 25  
 (10) 
 26 

Other 
 (4) 
 (6) 
 - 

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 
 182  
 (204) 
 49 

  
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
   

Net proceeds from divestments 
 8  
 43  
 3 

Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired 
 (35) 
 -  
 (5)

Capital expenditures 
 (154) 
 (124) 
 (56)

Net cash used in investing activities 
 (181) 
 (81) 
 (58)

  
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
   

Proceeds from Senior Notes 
 -  
 452  
 - 

Proceeds fromTerm Loan 
 -  
 292  
 - 

Proceeds from Amended DIP Credit Facility 
 -  
 299  
 - 

Payments on Amended DIP Credit Facility 
 -  
 (300) 
 - 

(Payments on) proceeds from DIP Credit Facility, net 
 -  
 (250) 
 250 

Repayments of 6.875% Notes due 2016 
 -  
 (75) 
 - 

Repayments of 6.875% Debentures due 2026 
 -  
 (19) 
 - 

Repayments of 7% Notes due 2009 
 -  
 (44) 
 - 

Payments on 2007 Credit Facility, net 
 -  
 (54) 
 (28)

Proceeds from long term borrowings 
 -  
 -  
 1 

Payments on long term borrowings 
 -  
 -  
 (18)

Proceeds from (payments on) other short term borrowings, net 
 3  
 -  
 (2)

Payments for debt issuance and refinancing costs 
 -  
 (40) 
 (30)

Payments for make-whole and no-call provisions 
 -  
 (10) 
 - 

Common shares acquired 
 (22) 
 -  
 - 

Proceeds from exercise of stock options 
 1  
 -  
 - 

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities 
 (18) 
 251  
 173 

  
    
    
   

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
    
    
   

Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 
 (4) 
 (1) 
 4 

Change in cash and cash equivalents 
 (21) 
 (35) 
 168 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 201  
 236  
 68 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$180  
$201  
$236 

 
See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

57
 

 
CHEMTURA CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements
of Stockholders’ Equity
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
 (In millions)
 


  
   
   
   
   
   
Accumulated  
   
   
  

  
Common  
   
   
Additional  
   
Other  
   
Non  
  

  
Shares  
Treasury  
Common  
Paid-in  
Accumulated  
Comprehensive  
Treasury  
Controlling  
  

  
Issued  
Shares  
Stock  
Capital  
Deficit  
Loss  
Stock  
Interests  
Total 

Balance, January 1, 2009 
 254.1  
 11.5  
$3  
$3,036  
$(2,189) 
$(208) 
$(167) 
$13  
$488 

Comprehensive loss: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net (loss) earnings 
    
    
    
    
 (293) 
    
    
 1  
 (292)

Equity adjustment for translation of foreign currencies 
    
    
    
    
    
 51  
    
    
 51 

Unrecognized pension and post-retirement plan costs, net of deferred tax expense of $1 
    
    
    
    
    
 (78) 
    
    
 (78)

Changes in fair value of derivatives 
    
    
    
    
    
 1  
    
    
 1 

Total comprehensive loss 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (318)

Other 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (1) 
 (1)

Stock-based compensation 
    
    
    
 3  
    
    
    
    
 3 

Other issuances 
 0.3  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 - 

Balance, December 31, 2009 
 254.4  
 11.5  
 3  
 3,039  
 (2,482) 
 (234) 
 (167) 
 13  
 172 

Comprehensive loss: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net (loss) earnings 
    
    
    
    
 (586) 
    
    
 1  
 (585)

Equity adjustment for translation of foreign currencies 
    
    
    
    
    
 (26) 
    
    
 (26)

Unrecognized pension and post-retirement plan costs, net of deferred tax expense of $4 
    
    
    
    
    
 (16) 
    
    
 (16)

Total comprehensive loss 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (627)

Cancellation of Chemtura previous common stock 
 (254.4) 
    
 (3) 
 3  
    
    
    
    
 - 

Treasury stock cancellation 
    
 (11.5) 
    
 (167) 
    
    
 167  
    
 - 

Issuance of reorganized Chemtura common stock 
 95.5  
    
 1  
 1,423  
    
    
    
    
 1,424 

Dividends attributable to the noncontrolling interest 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (1) 
 (1)

Purchase of subsidiary shares from noncontrolling interest 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (4) 
 (4)

Stock-based compensation 
    
    
    
 7  
    
    
    
    
 7 

Other issuances 
 0.1  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 - 

Balance, December 31, 2010 
 95.6  
 -  
 1  
 4,305  
 (3,068) 
 (276) 
 -  
 9  
 971 

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net earnings 
    
    
    
    
 119  
    
    
 1  
 120 

Equity adjustment for translation of foreign currencies 
    
    
    
    
    
 (35) 
    
    
 (35)

Unrecognized pension and post-retirement plan costs, net of deferred tax expense of $1 million 
    
    
    
    
    
 (35) 
    
    
 (35)

Total comprehensive income 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 50 

Issuance of reorganized Chemtura common stock 
 2.4  
    
    
 19  
    
    
    
    
 19 

Dividends attributable to the noncontrolling interest 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (1) 
 (1)

Stock-based compensation 
    
    
    
 29  
    
    
    
    
 29 

Common shares aquired 
    
 2.0  
    
    
    
    
 (22) 
    
 (22)

Other issuances 
 0.3  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 - 

Balance, December 31, 2011 
 98.3  
 2.0  
$1  
$4,353  
$(2,949) 
$(346) 
$(22) 
$9  
$1,046 

 
See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

58
 

 
CHEMTURA CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements
 

1)NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Nature of Operations
 
Chemtura Corporation, together with our consolidated subsidiaries
is dedicated to delivering innovative, application-focused specialty chemical and consumer product offerings. Our principal executive
offices are located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Middlebury, Connecticut. We operate in a wide variety of end-use industries,
including agriculture, automotive, construction, electronics, lubricants, packaging, plastics for durable and non-durable goods,
pool and spa chemicals, and transportation.
 
When we use the terms “Corporation,” “Company,”
“Chemtura,” “Registrant,” “We,” “Us” and “Our,” unless otherwise indicated
or the context otherwise requires, we are referring to Chemtura Corporation and our consolidated subsidiaries.
 
We are the successor to Crompton & Knowles Corporation (“Crompton
& Knowles”), which was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1900 and engaged in the manufacture and sale of specialty chemicals
beginning in 1954. Crompton & Knowles traces its roots to the Crompton Loom Works incorporated in the 1840s. We expanded the
specialty chemical business through acquisitions in the United States and Europe, including the 1996 acquisition of Uniroyal Chemical
Company, Inc. (“Uniroyal”), the 1999 merger with Witco Corporation (“Witco”) and the 2005 acquisition of
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation (“Great Lakes”).
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts
of Chemtura and our wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries that we control. Other affiliates in which we have a 20% to 50%
ownership interest or a non-controlling majority interest are accounted for in accordance with the equity method. Other investments
in which we have less than 20% ownership are recorded at cost. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.
 
Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), which require us to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to
the current year’s presentation. These changes did not have a material impact on previously reported results of operations,
cash flows or financial position.
 
We operated as a debtor-in-possession (“DIP”) under
the protection of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”)
from March 18, 2009 (the “Petition Date”) through November 10, 2010 (the “Effective Date”). From the Petition
Date through the Effective Date, our Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification
(“ASC”) Section 852-10-45, Reorganizations – Other Presentation Matters (“ASC 852-10-45”)
which requires that financial statements, for periods during the pendency of our voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11
of Title 11 of the United States Code (the “Chapter 11”) filings, distinguish transactions and events that are directly
associated with the reorganization from the ongoing operations of the business. Accordingly, certain income, expenses, realized
gains and losses and expenses for losses that were realized or incurred in the Chapter 11 cases were recorded in Reorganization
items, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In connection with our emergence from Chapter 11 on November 10, 2010,
we recorded certain “plan effect” adjustments to our Consolidated Financial Statements as of the Effective Date in
order to reflect certain expenses of our plan of reorganization (the “Plan”). See Note 18 – Emergence from Chapter
11 for a further discussion.
 

59
 

 
Accounting Policies
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Substantially all of our revenues are derived from the sale of products.
Revenue is recognized when risk of loss and title to the product is transferred to the customer. Revenue is recorded net of taxes
collected from customers that are remitted to governmental authorities with the collected taxes recorded as current liabilities
until remitted to the respective governmental authorities. Our products are sold subject to various shipping terms. Our terms of
delivery are included on our sales invoices and order confirmation documents.
 
Customer Rebates
 
We accrue for the estimated cost of customer rebates as a reduction
of sales. Customer rebates are primarily based on customers achieving defined sales targets over a specified period of time. We
estimate the cost of these rebates based on the likelihood of the rebate being achieved and recognize the cost as a deduction from
sales when such sales are recognized. Rebate programs are monitored on a regular basis and adjusted as required. Our accruals for
customer rebates were $20 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Customer rebates are included as a reduction to
accounts receivable on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
Operating
Costs and Expenses
 
Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes all costs incurred
in manufacturing goods, including raw materials, direct manufacturing costs and manufacturing overhead. COGS also includes warehousing,
distribution, engineering, purchasing, customer service, environmental, health and safety functions, and shipping and handling
costs for outbound product shipments. Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses include costs and expenses
related to the following functions and activities: selling, advertising, legal, provision for doubtful accounts, corporate facilities
and corporate administration. SG&A also includes accounting, information technology, finance and human resources, excluding
direct support in manufacturing operations, which is included as COGS. Research and development (“R&D”) expenses
include basic and applied research and development activities of a technical and non-routine nature. R&D costs are expensed
as incurred. COGS, SG&A and R&D expenses exclude depreciation and amortization expenses which are presented on a separate
line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
Other Expense, Net
 
Other expense, net includes costs associated with our accounts receivable
facilities, foreign exchange losses, interest income and other items.
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Costs of accounts receivable facilities 
$-  
$-  
$(2)

Foreign exchange loss 
 (2) 
 (11) 
 (22)

Interest income 
 4  
 3  
 7 

Other items, individually less than $1 million 
 (2) 
 2  
 - 

  
    
    
   

  
$-  
$(6) 
$(17)

 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 
Included in accounts receivable are allowances for doubtful accounts
in the amount of $20 million in 2011 and $24 million in 2010. The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects a reserve representing
our estimate of the amounts that may not be collectible. In addition to reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, we consider many
factors in estimating our reserves, including historical data, experience, customer types, credit worthiness, and economic trends.
From time to time, we may adjust our assumptions for anticipated changes in any of these or other factors expected to affect collection.
 
Inventory Valuation
 
Inventories are valued
at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method.
 

60
 

 
Property,
Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, less accumulated
depreciation. Depreciation expense from continuing operations is computed on the straight-line method using the following ranges
of asset lives: land improvements - 3 to 20 years; buildings and improvements - 2 to 40 years; machinery and equipment - 2 to 25
years; information systems and equipment - 2 to 10 years; and furniture, fixtures and other - 1 to 10 years. See Note 6 –
Property, Plant and Equipment for further information.
 
Renewals and improvements that significantly extend the useful lives
of the assets are capitalized. Capitalized leased assets and leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of their useful
lives or the remaining lease term. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.
 
Intangible
Assets
 
Patents, trademarks and other intangibles assets
are being amortized principally on a straight-line basis using the following ranges for their estimated useful lives: patents -
5 to 20 years; trademarks - 7 to 40 years; customer relationships - 14 to 30 years; production rights - 9 to 10 years; and other
intangibles - 5 to 20 years. See Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets for further information.
 
Recoverability
of Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill
 
We evaluate the recoverability
of the carrying value of long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. Under such circumstances, we assess whether the projected undiscounted cash flows of our long-lived
assets are sufficient to recover the existing unamortized cost of our long-lived assets. If the undiscounted projected cash flows
are not sufficient, we calculate the impairment amount by discounting the projected cash flows using our weighted-average cost
of capital. The amount of the impairment is written off against earnings in the period in which the impairment is determined.
 
We evaluate the recoverability
of the carrying value of goodwill on an annual basis as of July 31, or when events occur or circumstances change. See Note 7 -
Goodwill and Intangible Assets for further details.
 
Income Taxes
 
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted rates. The effect of a change in tax rates on
deferred tax assets is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
 
We recognize the financial statement effects of an uncertain income
tax position when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination.
We accrue for other tax contingencies when it is probable that a liability to a taxing authority has been incurred and the amount
of the contingency can be reasonably estimated.
 
Provision is made for taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries and related companies to the extent that such earnings are not deemed to be indefinitely reinvested. 
 
Environmental Liabilities
 
Each quarter we evaluate and review our estimates for future remediation,
operation and management costs directly related to environmental remediation, to determine appropriate environmental reserve amounts.
For each site where the cost of remediation is probable and reasonably estimable, we determine the specific measures that are believed
to be required to remediate the site, the estimated total cost to carry out the remediation plan, the portion of the total remediation
costs to be borne by us and the anticipated time frame over which payments to implement the remediation plan will occur. At sites
where we expect to incur ongoing operations and maintenance expenditures, we accrue on an undiscounted basis, for a period of generally
10 years, those costs which are probable and reasonably estimable. Environmental liabilities related to claims as part of the Chapter
11 cases are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010 at amounts expected to be allowed by the Bankruptcy
Court. These amounts were settled during 2011.
 

61
 

 
Litigation and Contingencies
 
In accordance with guidance now codified under ASC Topic 450, Contingencies,
we record in our Consolidated Financial Statements amounts representing our probable and reasonably estimable liability for claims,
litigation and guarantees. As information about current or future litigation or other contingencies becomes available, management
assesses whether such information warrants the recording of additional expenses relating to those contingencies. See Note 19 -
Legal Proceedings and Contingencies for further information.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
We recognize compensation expense for stock-based awards issued
over the requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche, as if multiple awards were granted. Stock-based compensation
expense is measured at the date of grant, based on the fair value of the award. Stock-based compensation expense recognized was
$26 million, $10 million, and $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Translation
of Foreign Currencies
 
Balance sheet accounts denominated in foreign currencies are translated
at the current rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date, while revenues and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange
during the periods presented. The cumulative foreign currency adjustments resulting from such translation are included in accumulated
other comprehensive income loss.
 
Cash Flows
 
Cash and cash equivalents include bank term deposits with original
maturities of three months or less. Included in cash and cash equivalents in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at both December 31,
2011 and 2010 is $1 million of restricted cash that is required to be on deposit to support certain letters of credit and performance
guarantees, the majority of which will be settled within one year.
 
Included in our restricted cash balance within current assets at
December 31, 2011 is $5 million of cash on deposit for the settlement of disputed bankruptcy claims that existed on the Effective
Date. At December 31, 2010, $32 million and $6 million of restricted cash related to the disputed bankruptcy claims was included
within current assets and non-current assets, respectively.
 
In 2011 and 2010 we settled approximately $41 million and $373 million
of liabilities subject to compromise, respectively, in cash upon our emergence from Chapter 11. Of the $41 million paid in 2011,
$33 million was paid from restricted cash. Additionally, in 2011 and 2010 we issued approximately $33 million and $1.4 billion
of common stock for the settlement of liabilities subject to compromise, respectively, in accordance with the Plan.
 
Cash payments included interest payments of $57 million in 2011,
$56 million in 2010 (which includes $24 million of interest payments in accordance with the Plan) and $45 million in 2009. Cash
payments also included income tax payments, net of refunds of $16 million in 2011, $6 million in 2010 and $33 million in 2009.
 
Accounting Developments 
 
Recently Implemented
 
In May 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”)
issued guidance now codified as ASC Topic 855, Subsequent Events (“ASC 855”), which provides authoritative accounting
literature related to evaluating subsequent events. ASC 855 is similar to the current guidance with some exceptions that are not
intended to result in significant change to current practice. On February 24, 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update
(“ASU”) 2010-09, Amendments to Certain Recognition and Disclosure Requirements (“ASC 2010-09”),
which amends ASC 855. ASU 2010-09 addresses certain implementation issues related to an entity’s requirement to perform and
disclose subsequent event procedures. ASU 2010-09 was effective immediately. We adopted ASU 2010-09 in our Quarterly Report for
the quarter ended March 31, 2010 and as a result of the adoption we no longer are required to disclose the date through which subsequent
events have been evaluated.
 

62
 

 
In June 2009, FASB issued guidance now codified as ASC Topic 105,
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“ASC 105”). ASC 105 establishes only two levels of GAAP, authoritative
and non-authoritative. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (the “Codification”) is the source of authoritative,
nongovernmental GAAP, except for rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”),
which are sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. All other non-grandfathered, non-SEC accounting literature not included
in the Codification will become non-authoritative. The standard was effective for financial statements for interim or annual reporting
periods ending after September 15, 2009. As the Codification was not intended to change or alter existing GAAP, it did not have
any impact on our results of operations, financial condition or disclosures. References made to FASB guidance throughout this document
have been updated for the Codification.
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified as ASC Topic
810, Consolidation (“ASC 810”), which amends certain guidance for determining whether an entity is a variable
interest entity (“VIE”). ASC 810 requires an enterprise to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interests
give it a controlling financial interest in a VIE. Companies are required to assess whether it has an implicit financial responsibility
to ensure that a VIE operates as designed when determining whether it has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most
significantly impact the entity’s economic performance. In addition, ASC 810 requires ongoing reassessments of whether an
enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The standard was effective for financial statements for interim or annual reporting
periods that began after November 15, 2009. Earlier application was prohibited. We adopted the provisions of ASC 810 effective
as of January 1, 2010 and its adoption did not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or disclosures.
 
On January 21, 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-06, Improving Disclosures
About Fair Value Measurements (“ASU 2010-06”), which amends ASC 820 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures
(“ASC820”). ASU 2010-06 adds new requirements for disclosures about transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy
Levels 1 and 2, as defined in ASC 820, and separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements relating to
fair value hierarchy Level 3 measurements. ASU 2010-06 also clarifies existing fair value disclosures about the level of disaggregation
and about inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value. ASU 2010-06 amends guidance on employers’ disclosures
about postretirement benefit plan assets under ASC 715 Compensation-Retirement Benefits to require that disclosures be provided
by classes of assets instead of by major categories of assets. ASU 2010-06 was effective for the first reporting period (including
interim periods) beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the requirement to provide the fair value hierarchy Level 3 activity
mentioned above. We adopted the provisions effective as of January 1, 2011. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material
impact on our results of operations, financial condition because it provides enhanced disclosure requirements only.
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve
Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs (“ASU 2011-04”). ASU 2011-04 amends
GAAP to conform it with fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”).
The amendments in ASU 2011-04 changed the wording used to describe the requirements in GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing
information about fair value measurements. The provisions of ASU 2011-04 are effective for the first reporting period (including
interim periods) beginning after December 15, 2011. We are currently evaluating the impact this accounting standard update will
have on our results of operations, financial condition or disclosures.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Presentation of
Comprehensive Income (“ASU 2011-05”). ASU 2011-05 requires the presentation of comprehensive income, the components
of net income and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income
or in two separate but consecutive statements. The new standard also requires presentation of adjustments for items that are reclassified
from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive
income are presented. The provisions of ASU 2011-05 are effective for the first reporting period (including interim periods) beginning
after December 15, 2011. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220). This update defers
the effective date for items only relating to the presentation and reclassification adjustments in ASU 2011-05. The adoption of
these standards will not have a material financial statement impact as it only impacts the presentation of our financial statements.
 

63
 

 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles
– Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment (“ASU 2011-08”). The guidance in ASU 2011-08
is intended to reduce complexity and costs by allowing an entity the option to make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood
of goodwill impairment to determine whether it should calculate the fair value of a reporting unit. The amendments also improve
previous guidance by expanding upon the examples of events and circumstances that an entity should consider between annual impairment
tests in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.
The amendments in ASU 2011-08 are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our results
of operations or financial condition.
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-09, Compensation—Retirement
Benefits Multiemployer Plans (Subtopic 715-80) (“ASU 2011-09”). The guidance in ASU 2011-09 is meant to assists
users of financial statements assess the potential future cash flow implications relating to an employer’s participation
in multiemployer pension plans. The disclosures will indicate the financial health of all of the significant plans in which the
employer participates and assist a financial statement user to access additional information that is available outside the financial
statements. The amendments in ASU 2011-09 are effective for annual periods for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011, with
early adoption permitted. We will adopt the provisions of ASU 2011-09 beginning with our interim period ended March 31, 2012. The
adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.
 
Risks and Uncertainties
 
Our revenues are largely dependent on the continued operation of
our manufacturing facilities. There are many risks involved in operating chemical manufacturing plants, including the breakdown,
failure or substandard performance of equipment, operating errors, natural disasters, the need to comply with directives of, and
maintain all necessary permits from, government agencies as well as potential terrorist attacks. Our operations can be adversely
affected by raw material shortages, labor force shortages or work stoppages and events impeding or increasing the cost of transporting
our raw materials and finished products. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the events
described above, may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility.
With respect to certain facilities, such events could have a material effect on Chemtura as a whole.
 
Our operations are also subject to various hazards incident to the
production of industrial chemicals. These include the use, handling, processing, storage and transportation of certain hazardous
materials. Under certain circumstances, these hazards could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction
of property and equipment, environmental damage and suspension of operations. Claims arising from any future catastrophic occurrence
at any one of our facilities may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potential claims.
 
We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial
condition including an assessment of the impact, if any, of prevailing economic conditions. We generally do not require collateral
from our customers. We are exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on derivative instruments
when utilized. The counterparties to these transactions are major financial institutions, which may be adversely affected by global
economic impacts. However, we consider the risk of default to be minimal.
 
International operations are subject to various risks which may
or may not be present in U.S. operations. These risks include political instability, the possibility of expropriation, restrictions
on dividends and remittances, instabilities of currencies, requirements for governmental approvals for new ventures and local participation
in operations such as local equity ownership and workers' councils. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies
in which we conduct business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which may be
material. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations.
 

64
 

 

2)ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
 
Acquisitions
 
On January 26, 2011, we announced the formation of ISEM S.r.l. (“ISEM”),
a strategic research and development alliance with Isagro S.p.A., which will provide us access to two commercialized products and
accelerate the development and commercialization of new active ingredients and molecules related to our Chemtura AgroSolutions
segment. ISEM is a 50/50 joint venture between us and Isagro S.p.A. and is being accounted for as an equity method investment.
Our investment in the joint venture was €20 million ($29 million), which was made in January 2011. In addition, we and Isagro
S.p.A. have agreed to jointly fund discovery and development efforts for ISEM, for approximately $2 million annually from each
partner for five years. During 2011 we funded approximately $2 million as planned. Funding our contributions will be done in part
by reducing our planned direct research and development spending.
 
On February 1, 2011, we announced the formation of DayStar Materials,
LLC (“Daystar”), a joint venture with UP Chemical Co. Ltd. that will manufacture and sell high purity metal organic
precursors for the rapidly growing LED market in our Industrial Engineered Products segment. DayStar is a 50/50 joint venture and
is being accounted for as an equity method investment. We made cash contributions of $6 million in 2011, in accordance with the
joint venture agreement.
 
Divestitures
 
Tetrabrom Joint Venture Divestiture
 
On November 28, 2011, we sold our 50% interest in Tetrabrom Technologies
Ltd. for net consideration of $38 million. The consideration will be paid in equal annual installments over a three year period.
The first payment is due in April 2012. A pre-tax gain of $27 million was recorded on the sale.
 
Sodium Sulfonates Divestiture
 
On July 30, 2010, we completed the sale of our natural sodium sulfonates
and oxidized petrolatum product lines to Sonneborn Holding, LLC for net proceeds of $5 million. The sale included certain assets,
our 50% interest in a European joint venture, the assumption of certain liabilities and the mutual release of obligations between
the parties. The net assets sold consisted of accounts receivable of $3 million, other current assets of $7 million, property,
plant and equipment, net of $2 million, environmental liabilities of $3 million and other liabilities of $6 million. A pre-tax
gain of approximately $2 million was recorded on the sale.
 
PVC Additives Divestiture
 
On April 30, 2010, we completed the sale of our PVC additives business
to Galata Chemicals LLC (formerly known as Artek Aterian Holding Company, LLC) and its sponsors, Aterian Investment Partners Distressed
Opportunities, LP and Artek Surfin Chemicals Ltd. (collectively, “Galata”) for net proceeds of $38 million which included
a working capital adjustment that was received during the fourth quarter of 2010. The net assets sold consisted of accounts receivable
of $47 million, inventory of $42 million, other current assets of $6 million, other assets of $1 million, pension and other post-retirement
health care liabilities of $25 million, accounts payable of $3 million and other accrued liabilities of $1 million. A pre-tax loss
of approximately $13 million was recorded on the sale after the elimination of $16 million of accumulated other comprehensive loss
(“AOCL”) resulting from the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary as part of the transaction.
 
We classified the PVC additives business as discontinued operations
in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented.  We determined the cash flows associated with the
continuation of activities are deemed indirect and we evaluated whether we had significant continued involvement in the operations
of the disposed businesses. Accordingly, we did not deem our involvement with the disposed business subsequent to the sale to be
significant. All applicable disclosures included in the accompanying footnotes have been updated to reflect the PVC additives business
as a discontinued operation.
 

65
 

 
Loss from discontinued operations for periods with activities consists
of the following:
 


  
Year Ended 

(In millions) 
2010  
2009 

  
   
  

Net Sales 
$96  
$241 

  
    
   

Pre-tax loss from discontinued operations 
$(1) 
$(69)(a)

Income tax benefit 
 -  
 6 

Loss from discontinued operations 
$(1) 
$(63)

 

(a)In 2009, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $65 million to write-down the value of property, plant and equipment, net
and intangible assets, net (see Note 3 – Restructuring and Asset Impairment Activities for further information).
 
OrganoSilicones Divestiture
 
On July 31, 2003, we sold certain assets and assigned certain liabilities
of our OrganoSilicones business unit to the Specialty Materials division of General Electric Company (“GE”) and acquired
GE’s Specialty Chemicals business.
 
During 2009, we recorded an accrual of $4 million ($3 million, net
of taxes) which was included in loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax in our Consolidated Statements of Operations,
related to the divestiture of our OrganoSilicones business. This accrual related to a loss contingency for information that became
available during 2009. 
 

3)RESTRUCTURING AND ASSET IMPAIRMENT ACTIVITIES
 
Reorganization
Initiatives
 
In 2009, the Bankruptcy Court approved the implementation of certain
cost savings and growth initiatives, including the closure of a manufacturing facility in Ashley, IN, the consolidation of warehouses
related to our Consumer Products segment, the reduction of leased space at two of our U.S. office facilities, and the rejection
of various unfavorable contracts. Additionally, on January 25, 2010, our Board of Directors (the “Board”) approved
an initiative involving the consolidation and idling of certain assets within the Great Lakes Solutions business operations in
El Dorado, Arkansas, which was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on February 23, 2010 and was expected to be substantially completed
by the first half of 2012. During 2010, the demand for brominated products used in electronic applications grew significantly.
With the evidence that demand has started to recover for our products used in oil and gas applications in the Gulf of Mexico as
well as insulation and furniture foam applications, and recognizing the emerging demand for mercury removal applications, it has
become evident that we will need to produce larger quantities of bromine than were projected when we formulated our consolidation
plan. In addition, in the first quarter of 2011 our partner informed us that they will exercise their right to purchase our interest
in our Tetrabrom joint venture in the Middle East that supplies a brominated flame retardant to us. While under the terms of the
joint venture agreement, the purchaser is obligated to continue to supply the current volumes of the brominated flame retardant
to us for two years following the acquisition, we need to plan for the ultimate production of this product. The sale of our 50%
interest in Tetrabrom Technologies Ltd. was completed in November 2011, with proceeds to be received over a three year period beginning
in April 2012, which will assist in defraying the cost of any required capacity addition that we may be required to make. Our analysis
has indicated that the most cost effective source of the additional bromine we require is to continue to operate many of the bromine
assets we had planned to idle and to invest to improve their operating efficiency. In light of this analysis, on April 20, 2011,
our Board confirmed that we should defer a portion of the El Dorado restructuring plan and continue to operate certain of the bromine
and brine assets that were planned to be idled.
 
As a result of our reorganization initiatives, we recorded pre-tax
charges of $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily for asset impairments and accelerated depreciation. We recorded
pre-tax charges of $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 ($5 million was recorded to reorganization items, net for severance,
asset relocation costs and contract termination costs, $30 million was recorded to depreciation and amortization for accelerated
depreciation, and $2 million was recorded to COGS for accelerated asset retirement obligations and asset write-offs). In 2009,
we recorded pre-tax charges of $9 million ($4 million was recorded to reorganization items, net for severance and real property
lease rejections, $3 million was recorded to depreciation and amortization expense for accelerated depreciation, $1 million was
recorded to COGS and $1 million was recorded to SG&A for asset disposals and accelerated asset retirement obligations).
 

66
 

 
Corporate Restructuring Programs
 
In November 2011, we approved a restructuring plan intended to make
Chemtura AgroSolutions more cost efficient by centralizing certain functions regionally and consolidating laboratory activities
in North America. As a result of this plan, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $3 million for severance to facility closures, severance
and related costs for the year ended December 31, 2011
 
In March 2010, we approved a restructuring plan to consolidate certain
corporate functions internationally to gain efficiencies and reduce costs. As a result of this plan, we recorded a pre-tax charge
of $1 million for severance to facility closures, severance and related costs for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
In December, 2008, we announced a worldwide restructuring program
to reduce cash fixed costs. This initiative involved a worldwide reduction in our professional and administrative staff by approximately
500 people. We recorded a pre-tax charge of $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 to facility closures, severance and
related costs for severance and related costs.
 
A summary of the charges
and adjustments related to these restructuring programs is as follows:
 


  
Severance  
Other  
  

  
and  
Facility  
  

  
Related  
Closure  
  

(In millions) 
Costs  
Costs  
Total 

Balance at January 1, 2009 
$29  
 2  
 31 

Facility closure, severance and related costs 
 2  
 1  
 3 

Reorganization initiatives, net 
 1  
 3  
 4 

Cash payments 
 (23) 
 (2) 
 (25)

Balance at December 31, 2009 
 9  
 4  
 13 

Facility closure, severance and related costs 
 1  
 -  
 1 

Cash payments 
 (9) 
 (4) 
 (13)

Balance at December 31, 2010 
 1  
 -  
 1 

Facility closure, severance and related costs 
 3  
 -  
 3 

Cash payments 
 (3) 
 -  
 (3)

Balance at December 31, 2011 
$1  
 - 
$1 

 
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the balance of these reserves were
included in accrued expenses in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
Asset Impairments
 
In accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles – Goodwill
and Other (“ASC 350”) and ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant and Equipment (“ASC 360”), we recorded
pre-tax charges totaling $4 million, $60 million and $104 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, to impairment charges or
loss from discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded an impairment
charge of $3 million related to intangible assets of the Chemtura AgroSolutions reporting unit with no future use. Additionally,
there was a $1 million impairment charge related to property, plant and equipment of the El Dorado, Arkansas facility reorganization
initiative.
 

67
 

 
During the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded an impairment charge
of $57 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in our Chemtura AgroSolutions segment. During the annual impairment review
as of July 31, 2010, we identified risks inherent in our Chemtura AgroSolutions reporting unit’s forecast given its recent
performance was below expectations. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, this reporting unit’s performance had significantly
fallen below expectations for several consecutive quarters. We concluded that it was appropriate to perform a goodwill impairment
review as of December 31, 2010. We used revised forecasts to compute the estimated fair value of this reporting unit. These projections
indicated that the estimated fair value of the Chemtura AgroSolutions reporting unit was less than the carrying value. Based upon
our preliminary step 2 analysis, an estimated goodwill impairment charge of $57 million was recorded (representing the remaining
goodwill of this reporting unit). Due to the complexities of the analysis, which involves an allocation of the fair value, we finalized
our step 2 analysis and goodwill impairment charge in the first quarter of 2011. The analysis supported our 2010 conclusion that
the goodwill was fully impaired.
 
During the first half of 2010, we recorded an impairment charge
of $3 million, which was included in loss from discontinued operations, net of tax in our Consolidated Statements of Operations,
primarily related to further reducing the carrying value of property, plant and equipment of our PVC additives business, formerly
a component of the Industrial Engineered Products reporting segment, to reflect the revised estimated fair value of the assets.
The decrease in fair value is the result of the definitive agreement entered into with counterparties in December 2009 for the
sale of our PVC additives business.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded an impairment charge
of $7 million, of which $5 million was included in loss from discontinued operations, net of tax in our Consolidated Statements
of Operations, primarily related to further reducing the carrying value of property, plant and equipment of our PVC additives business
to reflect the revised estimated fair value of the assets.
 
In the second quarter of 2009, we experienced continued year-over-year
revenue reductions from the impact of the global recession in the electronic, building and construction industries. In addition,
the Consumer Products segment revenues were impacted by cooler and wetter than normal weather in the northeastern and mid-western
regions of the United States. Based on these factors, we reviewed the recoverability of the long-lived assets for the asset groupings
within our segments.
 
For the PVC additives business, formerly a component of our Industrial
Engineered Products reporting segment, the carrying value of the long-lived assets was in excess of the undiscounted cash flows.
As a result, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $60 million in the second quarter of 2009 to write-down the value of property,
plant and equipment, net by $48 million and intangible assets, net by $12 million. The $60 million charge was included in loss
from discontinued operations, net of tax in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
Due to the factors cited above, we also concluded it was appropriate
to perform a goodwill impairment review as of June 30, 2009. We used the updated projections in our long-range plan to compute
estimated fair values of our reporting units. These projections indicated that the estimated fair value of our Consumer Products
reporting unit was less than its carrying value. Based on our preliminary analysis, an estimated goodwill impairment charge of
$37 million was recorded for this reporting unit in the second quarter of 2009 (representing the remaining goodwill in this reporting
unit). We finalized our analysis of the goodwill impairment charge in the third quarter of 2009 and no change to the estimated
charge was required (see Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets for further information).
 

4)SALE OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
 
On October 26, 2011, certain of our European subsidiaries (the “Sellers”)
entered into a trade receivables financing facility (the “A/R Financing Facility”) with GE Factofrance SAS as purchaser
(the “Purchaser”). Pursuant to the A/R Financing Facility, and subject to certain conditions stated therein, the Purchaser
has agreed to purchase from the Sellers, on a revolving basis, certain trade receivables up to a maximum amount outstanding at
any time of €68 million (approximately $88 million). The A/R Financing Facility is uncommitted and has an indefinite term.
Since availability under the A/R Financing Facility is expected to vary depending on the value of the Seller’s eligible trade
receivables, the Sellers’ availability under the A/R Financing Facility may increase or decrease from time to time. The monthly
financing fee on the drawn portion of the A/R Financing Facility is the applicable Base Rate plus 1.50%. In addition, the A/R Financing
Facility is subject to a minimum commission on the annual volume of transferred receivables. We had no outstanding borrowings under
the A/R Financing Facility for the period ending December 31, 2011.
 

68
 

 
We retain servicing rights and a retained interest in the financed
receivables. We will classify the outstanding trade receivables financing as a secured borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
The agreement governing our A/R Financing Facility does not contain
any financial covenants but does contain customary events of default including certain receivable performance metrics. Any material
failure to meet the applicable A/R Financing facility metrics in the future could lead to an early termination event under the
A/R Financing Facility, which could require us to cease our use of such facilities, prohibiting us from obtaining additional borrowings
against our receivables or, at the discretion of the Purchaser, requiring that we repay the A/R Financing Facility in full.
 
On January 23, 2009, we entered into a U.S. accounts receivable
facility with up to $150 million of capacity and a three-year term with certain lenders. Under the U.S. facility, certain of our
subsidiaries were able to sell their accounts receivable to a special purpose entity (“SPE”) that was created for the
purpose of acquiring such receivables and selling an undivided interest therein to certain purchasers. In accordance with the receivables
purchase agreements, the purchasers were granted an undivided ownership interest in the accounts receivable owned by the SPE. The
facility was terminated on March 23, 2009 as a condition of the Chapter 11 proceedings. All accounts receivable were sold back
by the purchasers and the SPE to their original selling entity using proceeds of $117 million from a credit facility extended to
us during Chapter 11.
 
At January 1, 2009, certain of our European subsidiaries maintained
a separate European Facility to sell up to approximately $244 million (€175 million) of the eligible accounts receivable directly
to a purchaser as of December 31, 2008. At January 1, 2009, $67 million of international accounts receivable had been sold under
this facility. During the second quarter of 2009, with no agreement to restart the European Facility, the remaining balance of
the accounts receivable previously sold under this facility was settled and the facility was terminated.
 
In 2009, the costs
associated with the U.S. and European facilities of $2 million is included in other expense, net in our Consolidated Statements
of Operations. Additionally, following the termination of the U.S. facilities in 2009,
deferred financing costs of approximately $4 million related to this facility were charged to reorganization items, net in our
Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 

5)INVENTORIES
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

Finished goods 
$348  
$325 

Work in process 
 43  
 41 

Raw materials and supplies 
 151  
 162 

  
$542  
$528 

 
Included in the above net inventory balances are inventory obsolescence
reserves of approximately $18 million and $23 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 

6)PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

Land and improvements 
$85  
$79 

Buildings and improvements 
 240  
 231 

Machinery and equipment 
 1,238  
 1,174 

Information systems and equipment 
 175  
 173 

Furniture, fixtures and other 
 31  
 32 

Construction in progress 
 121  
 97 

  
 1,890  
 1,786 

Less: accumulated depreciation 
 1,138  
 1,070 

  
$752  
$716 

 


69
 



Depreciation expense from continuing operations amounted to $102
million, $138 million and $124 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Depreciation expense from continuing operations includes
accelerated depreciation of certain fixed assets associated with our restructuring programs of $2 million, $30 million and $5 million
for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 

7)GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
Goodwill
 
Goodwill by reportable segment is as follows:
 


  
Industrial  
   
  

  
Performance  
Chemtura  
  

(In millions) 
Products  
AgroSolutions  
Total 

  
    
    
   

Goodwill at December 31, 2009 
$268  
$57  
$325 

Accumulated impairments at December 31, 2009 
 (90) 
 -  
 (90)

Net Goodwill at December 31, 2009 
 178  
 57  
 235 

  
    
    
   

Impairment charges 
 -  
 (57) 
 (57)

Foreign currency translation 
 (3) 
 -  
 (3)

  
    
    
   

Goodwill at December 31, 2010 
 265  
 -  
 265 

Accumulated impairments at December 31, 2010 
 (90) 
 -  
 (90)

Net Goodwill at December 31, 2010 
 175  
 -  
 175 

  
    
    
   

Foreign currency translation 
 (1) 
 -  
 (1)

  
    
    
   

Goodwill at December 31, 2011 
 264  
 -  
 264 

Accumulated impairments at December 31, 2011 
 (90) 
 -  
 (90)

Net Goodwill at December 31, 2011 
$174  
$-  
$174 

 
We have elected to perform our annual goodwill impairment procedures
for all of our reporting units in accordance with ASC Subtopic 350-20, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other - Goodwill
(“ASC 350-20”) as of July 31, or sooner, if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce
the fair value of a reporting unit below the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units utilizing income
and market approaches through the application of discounted cash flow and market comparable methods (Level 3 inputs as described
in Note 16 – Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements). The assessment is required to be performed in two steps:
step one to test for a potential impairment of goodwill and, if potential impairments are identified, step two to measure the impairment
loss through a full fair valuing of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit utilizing the acquisition method of accounting.
 
We continually monitor and evaluate business and competitive conditions
that affect our operations and reflects the impact of these factors in our financial projections. If permanent or sustained changes
in business or, competitive conditions occur, they can lead to revised projections that could potentially give rise to impairment
charges.
 
We concluded that no goodwill impairment existed in any of our reporting
units based on the annual reviews as of July 31, 2011 and 2010. However during the annual review as of July 31, 2010, we identified
risks inherent in Chemtura AgroSolutions reporting unit’s forecast given the recent performance of this reporting unit which
was below expectations. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, this reporting unit’s performance had significantly fallen
below expectations for several consecutive quarters. We concluded that it was appropriate to perform a goodwill impairment review
as of December 31, 2010. We used revised forecasts to compute the estimated fair value of this reporting unit. These projections
indicated that the estimated fair value of the Chemtura AgroSolutions reporting unit was less than the carrying value. Based upon
our preliminary step 2 analysis, an estimated goodwill impairment charge of $57 million was recorded, representing the remaining
goodwill of this reporting unit. Due to the complexities of the analysis, which involved an allocation of the fair value, we finalized
our step 2 analysis and goodwill impairment charge in the first quarter of 2011. The analysis supported our 2010 conclusion that
the goodwill was fully impaired.
 

70
 

 
In connection with the continued weakness in global financial markets
and our filing for relief under Chapter 11, we concluded it was appropriate to perform a goodwill impairment review as of March
31, 2009. We used our own estimates of the effects of the macroeconomic changes on the markets we serve to develop an updated view
of our projections. Those updated projections were used to compute updated estimated fair values of our reporting units. Based
on these estimated fair values used to test goodwill for impairment, we concluded that no impairment existed in any of our reporting
units at March 31, 2009.
 
Subsequently in June 2009, we performed another goodwill impairment
review as certain of our reporting unit were negatively impacted versus expectations due to the cold and wet weather conditions
during the first half of 2009. We used the updated projections in our long-range plan to compute estimated fair values of our reporting
units. These projections indicated that the estimated fair value of our Consumer Products reporting unit was less than the carrying
value. Based on our analysis, a goodwill impairment charge of $37 million was recorded for this reporting unit in the second quarter
of 2009, which represented the remaining goodwill in this reporting unit.
 
Intangible Assets
 
Our intangible assets (excluding goodwill) are comprised of the
following:
 


  
2011  
2010 

(In millions) 
Gross Value  
Accumulated
Amortization  
Net
Intangibles  
Gross Value  
Accumulated
Amortization  
Net
Intangibles 

Patents 
$128  
$(70) 
$58  
$127  
$(62) 
$65 

Trademarks 
 262  
 (71) 
 191  
 264  
 (62) 
 202 

Customer relationships 
 146  
 (50) 
 96  
 147  
 (43) 
 104 

Production rights 
 46  
 (28) 
 18  
 46  
 (24) 
 22 

Other 
 70  
 (41) 
 29  
 73  
 (37) 
 36 

Total 
$652  
$(260) 
$392  
$657  
$(228) 
$429 

 
The decrease in gross intangible assets since December 31, 2010
is due to foreign currency translation of $4 million, the write-off of $4 million related to fully amortized intangibles (offset
within accumulated amortization) and impairments of $3 million, partially offset by the capitalization of re-registration costs
of $6 million.
 
Amortization expense from continuing operations related to intangible
assets amounted to $38 million in 2011, $37 million in 2010 and $38 million in 2009. Estimated amortization expense of intangible
assets for the next five fiscal years is as follows: $35 million (2012), $35 million (2013), $29 million (2014) $25 million (2015)
and $18 million (2016).
 

8)DEBT
 
Our debt is comprised of the following:
 



(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

7.875% Senior Notes due 2018, net of unamortized discount of $3 million in 2011 and 2010 with an effective interest rate of 8.17% in 2011 and 8.15% in 2010 
$452  
$452 

Term Loan due 2016, net of unamortized discount of $2 million in 2011 and $3 million in 2010 with an effective interest rate of 5.79% in 2011 and 5.77% in 2010 
 293  
 292 

Other borrowings 
 8  
 7 

Total Debt 
 753  
 751 

  
    
   

Less: Short-term borrowings 
 (5) 
 (3)

  
    
   

Total Long-Term Debt 
$748  
$748 


 

71
 

 
Financing Facilities
 
In 2010, in order to fund our Chapter 11 Plan and provide for future
capital needs, we obtained approximately $1 billion in financing. On August 27, 2010, we completed a private placement offering
under Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Rule 144A of $455 million aggregate principal amount of 7.875% senior
notes due 2018 (the “Senior Notes”) at an issue price of 99.269% in reliance on an exemption pursuant to Section 4(2)
of the Securities Act of 1933. We also entered into a senior secured term facility credit agreement due 2016 (the “Term Loan”)
with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and other lenders party thereto for an aggregate principal amount of $295
million with an original issue discount of 1%. The Term Loan permits us to increase the size of the facility by up to $125 million.
On the Effective Date, we entered into a five year senior secured revolving credit facility available through 2015 (the “ABL
Facility”) with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and the other lenders party thereto for an amount up to $275
million, subject to availability under a borrowing base (with a $125 million letter of credit sub-facility). The ABL Facility permits
us to increase the size of the facility by up to $125 million subject to obtaining lender commitments to provide such increase.
 
Senior Notes
 
At any time prior to September 1, 2014, we may redeem some or all
of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus a make-whole premium (as defined in
the indenture) and accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the redemption date. We may also redeem some or all of the
Senior Notes at any time on or after September 1, 2014, with the redemption prices being, prior to September 1, 2015, 103.938%
of the principal amount, on or after September 1, 2015 and prior to September 1, 2016, 101.969% of the principal amount and thereafter
100% plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, prior to September 1, 2013, we may redeem up to
35% of the Senior Notes from the proceeds of certain equity offerings. If we experience specific kinds of changes in control, we
may be required to offer to repurchase all of the Senior Notes. The redemption price (subject to limitations as described in the
indenture) is equal to accrued and unpaid interest on the date of redemption plus the redemption price as set forth above.
 
Our Senior Notes contain covenants that limit our ability to enter
into certain transactions, such as incurring additional indebtedness, creating liens, paying dividends, and entering into dispositions
and joint ventures. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with the covenant requirements of the Senior Notes.
 
Our Senior Notes are subject to certain events of default, including,
among others, breach of other agreements in the Indenture; any guarantee of a significant subsidiary ceasing to be in full force
and effect; a default by us or our restricted subsidiaries under any bonds, debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness
of a certain amount, resulting in its acceleration; the rendering of judgments to pay certain amounts of money against us or our
significant subsidiaries which remains outstanding for 60 days; and certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency.
 
In connection with the Senior Notes, in June 2011, we consummated
an exchange offer, registered with the SEC, to exchange unregistered Senior Notes originally issued in the private placement offering
for registered Senior Notes. The terms of the registered Senior Notes are substantially identical to the unregistered Senior Notes,
except that transfer restrictions, registration rights and additional interest provisions relating to the unregistered Senior Notes
do not apply to the registered Senior Notes.
 
Term Loan
 
Borrowings under the Term Loan (due in 2016) bear interest at a
rate per annum equal to, at our election, (i) 3.0% plus the Base Rate (defined as the higher of (a) the Federal Funds rate plus
0.5%; (b) Bank of America’s published prime rate; and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1%) or (ii) 4.0% plus the Eurodollar Rate
(defined as the higher of (a) 1.5% and (b) the current LIBOR adjusted for reserve requirements).
 
The Term Loan is secured by a first priority lien on substantially
all of our U.S. tangible and intangible assets (excluding accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts and certain other related
assets), including, without limitation, real property, equipment and intellectual property, together with a pledge of the equity
interests of our first tier subsidiaries and the guarantors of the Term Loan, and a second priority lien on substantially all of
our U.S. accounts receivable and inventory.
 
We may, at our option, prepay the outstanding aggregate principal
amount on the Term Loan advances in whole or ratably in part along with accrued and unpaid interest on the date of the prepayment.
 
Our obligations as borrower under the Term Loan are guaranteed by
certain of our U.S. subsidiaries.
 

72
 

  
The Term Loan contains covenants that limit, among other things,
our ability to enter into certain transactions, such as creating liens, incurring additional indebtedness or repaying certain indebtedness,
making investments, paying dividends, and entering into acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures.
 
Additionally, the Term Loan requires that we meet certain financial
maintenance covenants including a maximum Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in the agreement) of 2.5:1.0 and a minimum Consolidated
Interest Coverage Ratio (as defined in the agreement) of 3.0:1.0. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with the covenant
requirements of the Term Loan.
 
The Term Loan is subject to certain events of default, applicable
to Chemtura, the guarantors and their respective subsidiaries, including, nonpayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts,
violation of covenants, material inaccuracy of representations and warranties (including the existence of a material adverse event
as defined in the agreement), cross-default to material indebtedness, certain events of bankruptcy and insolvency, material judgments,
certain ERISA events, a change in control, and actual or asserted invalidity of liens or guarantees or any collateral document,
in certain cases subject to the threshold amounts and grace periods set forth in the Term Loan agreement.
 
On September 27, 2010, we entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Term
Loan which deleted the requirement that intercompany loans be subordinated, as the requirement was inconsistent with the provisions
for prepayment of other debt which expressly permitted prepayments of intra-group debt. The amendment also clarified, among other
things, language permitting payments and dispositions made pursuant to the Plan.
 
ABL Facility
 
The revolving loans under the ABL Facility (available through 2015)
will bear interest at a rate per annum which, at our option, can be either: (a) a base rate (the highest of (i) Bank of America,
N.A.’s “prime rate,” (ii) the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.5% and (iii) the one-month LIBOR plus 1.00%)
plus a margin of between 2.25% and 1.75% based on the average excess availability under the ABL Facility for the preceding quarter;
or (b) the current reserve adjusted LIBOR plus a margin of between 3.25% and 2.75% based on the average excess availability under
the ABL Facility for the preceding quarter.
 
Our obligations (and the obligations of the other borrowing subsidiaries)
under the ABL Facility are guaranteed on a secured basis by all the guarantors (as defined in the agreement) that are not borrowers,
and by certain of our future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries. The obligations and guarantees under the ABL Facility will
be secured by (i) a first-priority security interest in the borrowers’ and the guarantors’ existing and future inventory
and accounts receivable, together with general intangibles relating to inventory and accounts receivable, contract rights under
agreements relating to inventory and accounts receivable, documents relating to inventory, supporting obligations and letter-of-credit
rights relating to inventory and accounts receivable, instruments evidencing payment for inventory and accounts receivable; money,
cash, cash equivalents, securities and other property held by the Administrative Agent or any lender under the ABL Facility; deposit
accounts, credits and balances with any financial institution with which any borrower or any guarantor maintains deposits and which
contain proceeds of, or collections on, inventory and accounts receivable; books, records and other property related to or referring
to any of the foregoing and proceeds of any of the foregoing (the “Senior Asset Based Priority Collateral”); and (ii)
a second-priority security interest in substantially all of the borrowers’ and the guarantors’ other assets, including
(a) 100% of the capital stock of borrowers’ and the guarantors’ direct domestic subsidiaries held by the borrowers
and the guarantors and 100% of the non-voting capital stock of the borrowers’ and the guarantors’ direct foreign subsidiaries
held by the borrowers and the guarantors, and (b) 65% of the voting capital stock of the borrowers’ and the guarantors’
direct foreign subsidiaries (to the extent held by the borrowers and the guarantors), in each case subject to certain exceptions
set forth in the ABL Facility agreement and the related loan documentation.
 
Mandatory prepayments of the loans under the ABL Facility (and cash
collateralization of outstanding letters of credit) are required (i) to the extent the usage of the ABL Facility exceeds the lesser
of (a) the borrowing base and (b) the then effective commitments and (ii) subject to exceptions, thresholds and reinvestment rights,
with the proceeds of certain sales or casualty events of assets on which the ABL Facility has a first priority security interest.
 
If, at the end of any business day, the amount of unrestricted cash
and cash equivalents held by the borrowers and guarantors (excluding amounts in certain exempt accounts) exceeds $20 million in
the aggregate, mandatory prepayments of the loans under the ABL Facility (and cash collateralization of outstanding letters of
credit) are required on the following business day in an amount necessary to eliminate such excess (net of our known cash uses
on the date of such prepayment and for the 2 business days thereafter).
 

73
 

  
The ABL Facility agreement contains certain affirmative and negative
covenants (applicable to us, the other borrowing subsidiaries, the guarantors and their respective subsidiaries), including, without
limitation, covenants requiring financial reporting and notices of certain events, and covenants imposing limitations on incurrence
of indebtedness and guarantees; liens; loans and investments; asset dispositions; dividends, redemptions, and repurchases of stock
and prepayments, redemptions and repurchases of certain indebtedness; mergers, consolidations, acquisitions, joint ventures or
creation of subsidiaries; material changes in business; transactions with affiliates; restrictions on distributions from subsidiaries
and granting of negative pledges; changes in accounting and reporting; sale leasebacks; and speculative transactions, and a springing
financial covenant requiring a minimum trailing 12-month fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the agreement) of 1.1 to 1.0
at all times during any period from the date when the amount available for borrowings under the ABL Facility falls below the greater
of (i) $34 million and (ii) 12.5% of the aggregate commitments to the date such available amount has been equal to or greater than
the greater of (i) $34 million and (ii) 12.5% of the aggregate commitments for 45 consecutive days. As of December 31, 2011, we
were in compliance with the covenant requirements of the ABL Facility.
 
The ABL Facility agreement contains certain events of default (applicable
to us, the other borrowing subsidiaries, the guarantors and their respective subsidiaries), including nonpayment of principal,
interest, fees or other amounts, violation of covenants, material inaccuracy of representations and warranties (including the existence
of a material adverse event as defined in the agreement), cross-default to material indebtedness, certain events of bankruptcy
and insolvency, material judgments, certain ERISA events, a change in control, and actual or asserted invalidity of liens or guarantees
or any collateral document, in certain cases subject to the threshold amounts and grace periods set forth in the ABL Facility agreement.
 
On March 22, 2011, we entered into Amendment No. 1 to the ABL Facility
which permits us to amend the Term Loan (and refinance those facilities in connection with such an amendment) to provide for principal
amortization not exceeding 1% of the total principal amount of the Term Loan (such percentage calculated as of the date of any
such amendment to the Term Loan). Amendment No. 1 also clarifies that we may, in connection with an otherwise permitted amendment
to the Term Loan that refinances those facilities, increase the Term Loan up to the maximum amount permitted under the debt incurrence
covenant contained in the ABL Facility.
 
On December 22, 2011, we entered into Amendment No. 2 to the ABL
Facility which modifies certain of the negative covenants to provide us with additional flexibility in incurrence of indebtedness,
liens, investments, certain restricted payments and repayment of other debt if certain borrowing availability tests under the ABL
Facility are met.
 
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had no borrowings under the ABL
Facility, but we had $15 million and $12 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of outstanding letters of credit
(primarily related to insurance obligations, environmental obligations and banking credit facilities) which utilizes available
capacity under the facility. At December 31, 2011 and 2010 we had approximately $201 million and $185 million, respectively, of
undrawn availability under the ABL Facility.
 
Maturities
 
At December 31, 2011, the scheduled maturities of debt are as follows:
2012 - $6 million; 2013 - $0 million; 2014 - $0 million; 2015 - $0 million; 2016 - $295 million and thereafter $455 million.
 
Debtor-in-Possession Credit Facility
 
On March 18, 2009, in connection with the Chapter 11 filing, we
entered into a $400 million senior secured super-priority debtor-in-possession DIP Credit Facility (the “DIP Credit Facility”)
arranged by Citigroup Global Markets Inc. with Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent, subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court.
On March 20, 2009, the Bankruptcy Court entered an interim order approving the Debtors’ access to $190 million of the DIP
Credit Facility in the form of a $165 million term loan and a $25 million revolving credit facility. The DIP Credit Facility closed
on March 23, 2009 with the drawing of the $165 million term loan. The initial proceeds were used to fund the termination of the
U.S. accounts receivable facility, pay fees and expenses associated with the transaction and fund business operations. On April
29, 2009, the Bankruptcy Court entered a final order providing full access to the $400 million DIP Credit Facility.
 

74
 

 
 
On February 9, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court gave interim approval
of the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Super-Priority Debtor-in-Possession Credit Agreement (the “Amended DIP Credit
Facility”) by and among the Debtors, Citibank N.A. and the other lenders party thereto (collectively the “Loan Syndicate”).
The Amended DIP Credit Facility replaced the DIP Credit Facility. The Amended DIP Credit Facility provided for a first priority
and priming secured revolving and term loan credit commitment of up to an aggregate of $450 million comprising a $300 million term
loan and a $150 million revolving credit facility. The Amended DIP Credit Facility was scheduled to mature on the earliest of 364
days after the closing, the effective date of a plan of reorganization or the date of termination in whole of the Commitments (as
defined in the credit agreement governing the Amended DIP Credit Facility). The proceeds of the term loan under the Amended DIP
Credit Facility were used to, among other things, refinance the obligations outstanding under the previous DIP Credit Facility
and provide working capital for general corporate purposes. The Amended DIP Credit Facility provided a reduction in our financing
costs through reductions in interest spread and avoidance of the extension fees payable under the DIP Credit Facility in February
and May 2010. The Amended DIP Credit Facility closed on February 12, 2010 with the drawing of the $300 million term loan. On February
9, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving full access to the Amended DIP Credit Facility, which order became final
by its terms on February 18, 2010.
 
The Amended DIP Credit Facility resulted in a substantial modification
for certain lenders within the Loan Syndicate given the reduction in their commitments as compared to the DIP Credit Facility.
Accordingly, we recognized a $13 million charge for the year ended December 31, 2010 for the early extinguishment of debt resulting
from the write-off of deferred financing costs and the incurrence of fees payable to lenders under the DIP Credit Facility. We
also incurred $5 million of debt issuance costs related to the Amended DIP Credit Facility for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
Certain fees were payable to the lenders upon the reduction or termination
of the commitment and upon the substantial consummation of a plan of reorganization as described more fully in the DIP Credit Facility
including an exit fee payable to the Lenders of 2% of “roll-up” commitments and 3% of all other commitments. These
fees, which amounted to $11 million, were paid upon the funding of the term loan under the Amended DIP Credit Facility.
 
Borrowings under the DIP Credit Facility term loans bore interest
at a rate per annum equal to 10.5%. Additionally, we paid an unused commitment fee of 1.5% per annum and a letter of credit fee
of 3.75% per annum. Borrowings under the Amended DIP Credit Facility term loan bore interest at a rate per annum equal to 6%. Additionally,
we paid an unused commitment fee of 1.0% per annum and a letter of credit fee of 4.5% per annum.
 
The Amended DIP Credit Facility was paid in full and terminated
on the Effective Date.
 
Pre-Petition Debt Obligations
 
The Chapter 11 filing constituted an event of default under, or
otherwise triggered repayment obligations with respect to, several of the debt instruments and agreements relating to direct and
indirect financial obligations of the Debtors as of the Petition Date (collectively “Pre-petition Debt”). As a result,
all obligations under the Pre-petition Debt became automatically and immediately due and payable. During the pendency of the Chapter
11 cases, efforts to enforce the payment obligations under the Pre-petition Debt were stayed. Further, interest accruals and payments
for the unsecured Pre-petition Debt were ceased as of the Petition Date. As a result of the estimated claim recoveries reflected
in the Plan filed during the second quarter of 2010, we determined that it was probable that obligations for interest on unsecured
claims would ultimately be paid. As such, interest that had not previously been recorded since the Petition Date was recorded in
the second quarter of 2010. The amount of post-petition interest recorded during the year ended December 31, 2010 was $137 million
which represents the cumulative amount of interest for unsecured claims (including unsecured debt) accruing from the Petition Date
through the Effective Date.
 
As of November 3, 2010, our Plan confirmation date, we recorded
the allowed claims for our “make-whole” settlement on the $500 million of 6.875% Notes Due 2016 (“2016 Notes”)
and our “no-call” settlement on the $150 million 6.875% Debentures due 2026 (“2026 Debentures”). We recorded
these claims in 2010 in the amount of $70 million within loss on early extinguishment of debt in our Consolidated Statements of
Operations.
 
As of December 31, 2010, all claims relating to Pre-petition Debt
have been settled and paid in accordance with the provisions of the Plan.
 

75
 

 

9)LEASES
 
At December 31, 2011, minimum
rental commitments, primarily for buildings, land and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases, net of sublease income,
amounted to $13 million (2012), $12 million (2013), $10 million (2014), $8 million (2015), $8 million (2016), $24 million (2017
and thereafter) and $75 million in the aggregate. Sublease income is not significant in future periods. Rental expenses under operating
leases, net of sublease income were $25 million (2011), $24 million (2010) and $29 million (2009). Sublease income was less than
$1 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
Future minimum lease payments
under capital leases at December 31, 2011 were not significant.
 
Real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance expenses are generally
our obligations and, accordingly, were not included as part of rental payments. It is expected that in the normal course of business,
leases that expire will be renewed or replaced by similar leases.
 

10)Income Taxes
 
The components of earnings
(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and the income tax expense(benefit) are as follows:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Pre-tax Earnings (Loss) from Continuing Operations: 
    
    
   

Domestic 
$27  
$(622) 
$(206)

Foreign 
 118  
 72  
 (10)

  
$145  
$(550) 
$(216)

  
    
    
   

Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 
    
    
   

Domestic 
    
    
   

Current 
$1  
$(26) 
$15 

Deferred 
 3  
 31  
 (22)

  
 4  
 5  
 (7)

Foreign 
    
    
   

Current 
 30  
 14  
 (5)

Deferred 
 (9) 
 3  
 22 

  
 21  
 17  
 17 

Total 
    
    
   

Current 
 31  
 (12) 
 10 

Deferred 
 (6) 
 34  
 - 

  
$25  
$22  
$10 

 
The expense (benefit) for income taxes from continuing operations
differs from the Federal statutory rate for the following reasons:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Income tax expense (benefit) at the U.S. statutory rate 
$50  
$(193) 
$(76)

Antitrust legal settlements 
 -  
 (2) 
 1 

Foreign rate differential 
 (26) 
 (3) 
 22 

State income taxes, net of federal benefit 
 -  
 1  
 1 

Tax audit settlements 
 -  
 (13) 
 - 

Valuation allowances 
 (18) 
 307  
 100 

U.S. tax on foreign earnings 
 28  
 (135) 
 (1)

Nondeductible reorganizational expenses 
 3  
 23  
 15 

Nondeductible expenses, other 
 1  
 1  
 1 

Nondeductible stock compensation 
 1  
 14  
 - 

Depletion 
 (2) 
 (5) 
 (2)

Post-petition interest expense 
 -  
 22  
 (22)

Goodwill 
 -  
 19  
 - 

Income tax credits 
 (14) 
 (9) 
 (7)

Taxes attributable to prior periods 
 2  
 (4) 
 (21)

Other, net 
 -  
 (1) 
 (1)

Income tax expense 
$25  
$22  
$10 

 

76
 

 
Deferred taxes are recorded based on differences between the book
and tax basis of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates and regulations. The components of the deferred tax assets
and liabilities are as follows:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

Deferred tax assets: 
    
   

Pension and other post-retirement liabilities 
$177  
$180 

Net operating loss carryforwards 
 422  
 443 

Other accruals 
 44  
 22 

Tax credit carryforwards 
 82  
 64 

Accruals for environmental remediation 
 26  
 37 

Inventories and other 
 29  
 25 

Financial instruments 
 5  
 4 

Total deferred tax assets 
 785  
 775 

Valuation allowance 
 (695) 
 (697)

Net deferred tax assets after valuation allowance 
 90  
 78 

  
    
   

Deferred tax liabilities: 
    
   

Unremitted foreign earnings of subsidiaries 
 (7) 
 (5)

Property, plant and equipment 
 (81) 
 (64)

Intangibles 
 (33) 
 (30)

Other 
 -  
 (16)

Total deferred tax liabilities 
 (121) 
 (115)

Net deferred tax liability after valuation allowance 
$(31) 
$(37)

 
Net current and non-current deferred taxes from each tax jurisdiction
are included in the following accounts:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

Net current deferred taxes 
    
   

Other current assets 
$6  
$9 

Other current liabilities 
 (10) 
 (7)

Net non-current deferred taxes 
    
   

Other assets 
 20  
 21 

Other liabilities 
 (47) 
 (60)

 
We had valuation allowances
related to U.S. operations of $652 million, $652 million and $310 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We
had valuation allowances related to foreign operations of $43 million, $45 million and $70 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. A valuation allowance has been provided for deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not these assets
will expire before we are able to realize their benefit. Of the $2 million reduction in the total valuation allowance during 2011,
$16 million was recorded to the income tax benefit in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and $14 million was recorded to
other comprehensive loss in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Of the $317 million change in the total valuation allowance during
2010, $310 million was recorded to the income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and $7 million was recorded
to other comprehensive loss in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. This valuation allowance will be maintained until it is more likely
than not that remaining deferred assets will be realized. When this occurs, our income tax expense will be reduced by a decrease
in our valuation allowance, which could have a significant impact on our future earnings.
 
The components of our gross
net operating loss (“NOL”) are as follows:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Federal NOL 
$1,057  
$1,050 

State NOL 
$1,237  
$1,313 

Foreign NOL 
$82  
$304 

 

77
 

 
State and foreign NOL and
credits expire 2012-2031, federal credits expire 2013-2031 and federal NOL expire 2024-2031. As a result of our emergence from
Chapter 11 Bankruptcy in 2010, we will be subject to annual federal NOL limitations under Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”)
Section 382 in the future. Our federal NOL annual limitation will be in the range of $59 million to $77 million starting in 2011
and beyond. At December 31, 2011, we had federal and state tax credit carryforwards of $79 million and $3 million, respectively.
At December 31, 2010, we had federal and state tax credit carryforwards of $61 million and $3 million, respectively.
 
We consider undistributed
earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested in their operations. At December 31, 2011, such undistributed
earnings amounted to $753 million. As a result of our emergence from Chapter 11 in 2010, and the significant reduction in debt,
we have determined that we will no longer need to repatriate certain undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to fund
U.S. operations. Also, we have plans to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely. As such, the amount of foreign subsidiaries
undistributed earnings considered to be indefinitely invested in their foreign operations has been increased. The effect of such
change in the year ended December 31, 2011 is a reduction of $3 million in U.S. deferred income tax liability on such undistributed
earnings. In 2011, this reduction in U.S. taxes on unremitted foreign earnings has been offset by an equal increase in the valuation
allowance related to U.S. deferred tax assets, and, as such, had no net effect on tax expense recognized in our Consolidated Statements
of Operations.
 
We also have not recognized
a deferred tax liability for the difference between the book basis and tax basis of investments in the common stock of foreign
subsidiaries. Such differences relate primarily to the unremitted earnings of both Witco’s and Great Lakes’ foreign
subsidiaries prior to their mergers with us. The basis difference in subsidiaries of Witco, acquired on September 1, 1999, is approximately
$237 million and the basis difference in subsidiaries of Great Lakes, acquired on July 1, 2005, is approximately $62 million. Estimating
the tax liability that would arise if these earnings were repatriated is not practicable at this time.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded an increase
to our liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $5 million. This increase was primarily related to a foreign tax
matter dating back to the 1990s. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a decrease to our liability for unrecognized
tax benefits of approximately $35 million. This decrease was primarily related to the completion of our federal IRS examination
for the 2006-2007 tax years. In accordance with ASC 740, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits
as a component of income tax expense.
 
The beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits reconciles
as follows:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Balance at January 1 
$41  
$76  
$85 

  
    
    
   

Gross increases for tax positions taken during current year 
 1  
 -  
 2 

Gross increases for tax positions taken during a prior period 
 13  
 3  
 45 

Gross decreases for tax positions taken during a prior period 
 (5) 
 (10) 
 (44)

Gross decreases due to bankruptcy claims adjustment 
 -  
 -  
 (5)

Decreases from the expiration of the statute of limitations 
 (1) 
 -  
 (1)

Settlements / payments 
 (1) 
 (29) 
 (8)

Foreign currency impact 
 (2) 
 1  
 2 

  
    
    
   

Balance at December 31 
$46  
$41  
$76 

 
We recognized $1 million of interest
expense, $1 million of interest income and $1 million of interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits within tax expense
in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We also recognized, in our Consolidated Balance
Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, a total amount of $12 million and $11 million of interest,
respectively, related to unrecognized tax benefits.We file income tax returns in the U.S., various U.S. states and certain foreign
jurisdictions. We have completed our federal examination through December 31, 2007. The tax years 2008-2010 remain open
to examination.
 
Foreign and United States jurisdictions have statutes of limitations
generally ranging from 3 to 5 years. We have a number of state, local and foreign examinations currently in process. Major foreign
exams in process include Canada, Germany and Switzerland.
 

78
 

 
We believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits
may decrease by approximately $21 million within the next year. This reduction may occur due to the statute of limitations expirations
or conclusion of examinations by tax authorities. We further expect that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will continue
to change as a result of ongoing operations, the outcomes of audits, and the expiration of the statute of limitations. This change
is not expected to have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition.
 

11)CAPITAL STOCK AND EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE
 
Capital Stock
 
New
Shares
 
Pursuant to the Plan, all shares, including shares held in treasury,
of our common stock outstanding prior to the Effective Date were canceled. On November 8, 2010, the NYSE approved for listing 111
million shares of common shares in the capital of the reorganized company authorized pursuant to the Plan, (“the New Common
Stock”), as, comprising: (i) approximately 95.5 million shares of New Common Stock to be issued under the Plan; (ii) approximately
4.5 million shares of New Common Stock reserved for future issuances under the Plan as disputed claims are settled; and (iii) 11
million shares of New Common Stock reserved for issuance under our equity compensation plans.
 
At December 31, 2011, approximately
1.9 million reserved shares of New Common Stock remain to be issued to either settle disputed claims or to holders of previously
issued Chemtura stock (“Holders of Interests”). These shares were not accounted for as of December 31, 2011 and will
be recognized at the date issued and measured based on the fair value of our common stock at that time. For settlements of liabilities,
the difference between the fair value of the stock issued compared to the liability amount will be recognized in our Consolidated
Statements of Operations.
 
We are authorized to issue
500 million shares of $0.01 par value common stock. There were 98.3 million shares issued, of which 2.0 million were held in treasury
at December 31, 2011 and there were 95.6 million shares issued at December 31, 2010. We are authorized to issue 0.3 million shares
of $0.01 par value preferred stock, none of which are outstanding.
 
Old
Shares
 
We were authorized to issue 500 million shares of $0.01 par value
common stock. There were 254.4 million shares issued at December 31, 2009, respectively, of which 11.5 million were held as treasury
stock at December 31, 2009. We were authorized to issue 0.3 million shares of $0.10 par value preferred stock, none of which were
outstanding.
 
The 254.4 million shares of common stock, the 11.5 million shares
of treasury stock and the preferred stock right were all canceled upon the Effective Date.
 
Treasury Stock
 
On October 18, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors (the
“Board”) has authorized us to repurchase up to $50 million of our common stock over the next twelve months. The shares
are expected to be repurchased from time to time through open market purchases. The program, which does not obligate us to repurchase
any particular amount of common stock, may be modified or suspended at any time at the Board’s discretion. The manner, price,
number and timing of such repurchases, if any, will be subject to a variety of factors, including market conditions and the applicable
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). As of December 31, 2011, we had purchased
2.0 million shares for $22 million.
 
Earnings (Loss) per Common Share
 
A portion of the 100 million (which excludes shares reserved for
equity compensation plans) newly authorized common shares were immediately distributed, and the remainder was reserved for distribution
to holders of certain disputed claims that, although unresolved as of the Effective Date, later become allowed. To the extent that
any of the reserved shares remain undistributed upon resolution of the disputed claims, such shares will not be returned to us
but rather will be distributed pro rata to claimants with allowed claims or to holders of our previously outstanding common stock
to increase their recovery under the Plan. Therefore, pursuant to the Plan, all 100 million shares ultimately will be distributed.
Accordingly, although the reserved shares are not yet issued and outstanding, all conditions of distribution had been met for these
reserved shares as of the Effective Date, and such shares are considered issued and are included in our calculation of weighted
average shares outstanding.
 

79
 

 
The computation of basic earnings (loss) per common share is based
on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. The computation of diluted earnings (loss) per common share is based
on the weighted average number of common and common share equivalents outstanding. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share equals the basic earnings (loss) per common share calculation since common
stock equivalents were antidilutive due to losses from continuing operations.
 
The following is a reconciliation of the shares used in the computation
of earnings (loss) per share:
 



  
Year ended 

(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Weighted average shares outstanding - Basic 
 100.1  
 223.0  
 242.9 

Dilutive effect of common share equivalents 
 0.2  
 -  
 - 

Weighted average shares outstanding - Diluted 
 100.3  
 223.0  
 242.9 


 
The weighted average shares outstanding for 2010 were based upon
243 million of old shares outstanding for approximately 10 months and approximately 100 million of new shares outstanding for approximately
2 months. Although EPS information for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, is presented, it is not comparable to the information
presented for the year ended December 31, 2011, due to the changes in our capital structure on the Effective Date.
 

12)COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
 
An analysis of our comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended
2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Net earnings (loss) 
$120  
$(585) 
$(292)

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: 
    
    
   

Foreign currency translation adjustments 
 (35) 
 (26) 
 51 

Unrecognized pension and other post-retirement benefit costs 
 (35) 
 (16) 
 (78)

Change in fair value of derivatives 
 -  
 -  
 1 

Comprehensive income (loss) 
 50  
 (627) 
 (318)

Comprehensive income attributable to the non-controlling interest 
 (1) 
 (1) 
 (1)

Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$49  
$(628) 
$(319)

 
The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss (“AOCL”),
net of tax at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

Foreign currency translation adjustment 
$53  
$88 

Unrecognized pension and other post retirement benefit costs 
 (399) 
 (364)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
$(346) 
$(276)

 

13)STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS
 
We utilize various employee stock-based compensation plans. Awards
under these plans are granted to eligible officers, management employees and non-employee directors. Awards may be made in the
form of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and/or RSUs. Under the
plans, we issue additional shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options or the vesting of RSUs.
 

80
 

 
Description of the Plans
 
When our Plan became effective, we implemented the Chemtura Corporation
2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2010 LTIP”) which had been previously approved by the Bankruptcy Court. All stock-based
compensation plans existing prior to the Effective Date were terminated and any unvested or unexercised shares associated with
these plans were cancelled. We recognized all previously unrecognized compensation expense of $1 million to reorganization items,
net in 2010 upon the cancellation of the existing plans. The 2010 LTIP provides for grants of nonqualified stock options, incentive
stock options, stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalent rights, stock units, bonus stock, performance awards, share awards,
restricted stock and RSUs. The 2010 LTIP provides for the issuance of a maximum of 11 million shares, of which 4.7 million have
been granted. Non-qualified and incentive stock options may be granted under the 2010 LTIP at prices equal to the fair market value
of the underlying common shares on the date of the grant. All outstanding stock options will expire not more than ten years from
the date of the grant. As of December 31, 2011, grants authorized under the 2010 LTIP are being administered through the following
award plans that are described below as the 2009 Emergence Incentive Plan (the “2009 EIP”), the 2010 Emergence Incentive
Plan (the “2010 EIP”), the 2010 Emergence Award Plan (the “2010 EAP”) and the 2011 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (the “2011 LTIP”), as well as other grants made to the Board of Directors.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had 6.3 million
and 9.8 million shares available for grant respectively.
 
Total stock-based compensation expense, including amounts for RSUs
and stock options, was $26 million, $10 million and $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
In 2011, stock-based compensation expense of $22 million and $4
million was reported in SG&A and COGS, respectively. In 2010, stock-based compensation expense of $8 million, $1 million and
$1 million was reported in SG&A, COGS and reorganization items, net, respectively. In 2009, stock-based compensation expense
was primarily reported in SG&A.
 
In 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 30%, 25% and 80%, respectively,
of the stock-based compensation expense was allocated to our operating segments. All other stock-based compensation expense has
been allocated to Corporate.
 
Stock Options
 
In March 2011, we granted under the EIP Settlement Plan approved
by the Bankruptcy Court (“EIP Settlement Plan”) 0.8 million Non-qualified Options (“NQOs”) relating to
the 2010 EIP with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying common stock at the date of grant. One third
vested immediately, one third vests on March 31, 2012 and one third vests on March 31, 2013. The number of employees included in
the 2010 EIP and the size of the award pool are based upon specific consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization expense (“EBITDA”) levels achieved for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2010.
 
In March 2011, our Board of Directors approved the grant of 1.4
million NQOs under our 2011 LTIP. These options will vest ratably over a three-year period.
 
The Committee and the Bankruptcy Court approved a similar emergence
incentive plan in 2009 (the “2009 EIP”) based upon specific consolidated EBTIDA levels for the twelve month period
ending March 31, 2010. In November 2010, we granted under the EIP Settlement Plan 0.8 million NQOs relating to the 2009 EIP with
an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. One third of the options
vested immediately upon emergence from Chapter 11, one third vested on March 31, 2011 and one third vests on March 31, 2012.
 
We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the compensation
expense related to stock options. We have elected to recognize compensation cost for stock option awards granted equally over the
requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche, as if multiple awards were granted. Using this method, the weighted
average fair value of stock options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 was $8.39 and $7.73,
respectively. No stock options were granted in 2009. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the use of various assumptions.
 
The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used:
 



  
Year Ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Dividend yield 
 0.0% 
 0.0% 
 N/A 

Expected volatility 
 53.8% 
 56.0% 
 N/A 

Risk-free interest rate 
 2.5% 
 1.3% 
 N/A 

Expected life (in years) 
 6  
 5  
 N/A 


 
The weighted average expected life of six years for the 2011 grants
and five years for the 2010 grants reflects the simplified method, which defines the expected life as the average of the contractual
term of the options and the weighted average vesting period for all option tranches. We continue to
use the simplified method because there is insufficient data to develop a justifiable expected term. Expected volatility
for the 2011 awards of NQOs is based primarily on a combination of the historical volatility over the five year period prior to
our entering into Chapter 11 and historical volatility since emergence from Chapter 11. Expected volatility for the 2010 option
grants is based primarily on the historical volatility over the five year period prior to our entering into Chapter 11.
 

81
 

 
A summary of our stock option activities for 2011, 2010 and 2009
is summarized as follows:
 


  
   
   
   
Weighted  
  

  
   
   
   
Average  
Aggregate 

  
   
   
   
Remaining  
Intrinsic 

  
Price Per Share  
Shares  
Contractual  
Value 

  
Range  
Average  
(in millions)  
Life  
(in millions) 

Outstanding at 1/1/09 
$  1.50-21.74  
$9.38  
 11.9  
    
   

Lapsed 
 5.85-21.74  
 9.22  
 (5.5) 
    
   

Outstanding at 12/31/09 
 1.50-15.89  
 9.52  
 6.4  
 5.7  
$- 

Cancelled 
 1.50-15.89  
 9.52  
 (6.4) 
    
   

Granted 
 15.50  
 15.50  
 0.8  
    
   

Outstanding at 12/31/10 
 15.50  
 15.50  
 0.8  
 9.8  
 - 

Granted 
 16.03  
 16.03  
 2.2  
    
   

Lapsed 
 15.50-16.03  
 15.91  
 (0.2) 
    
   

Outstanding at 12/31/11 
$  15.50-16.03  
$15.90  
 2.8  
 9.1  
$- 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Exercisable at 12/31/09 
$  1.50-15.89  
$10.05  
 4.4  
    
   

Exercisable at 12/31/10 
$15.50  
$15.50  
 0.3  
    
   

Exercisable at 12/31/11 
$  15.50-16.03  
$15.68  
 0.7  
 9.0  
$- 

 
Total remaining unrecognized compensation cost associated with unvested
stock options at December 31, 2011 was $9 million, which will be recognized over the weighted average period of approximately 2
years.
 
Restricted Stock Awards
 
In March 2011, we granted under the EIP Settlement Plan, 0.4 million
time-based restricted stock units (“RSU’s”) relating to the 2010 EIP with a fair market value of the quoted closing
price of our stock on that date. One third vested immediately, one third vests on March 31, 2012 and one third vests on March 31,
2013.
 
In March 2011, our Board of Directors approved the grant of 0.4
million time-based RSU’s under our 2011 LTIP. These RSU’s will vest ratably over a three-year period.
 
In March 2011, we granted performance based bonus units under the
2010 EAP, which was previously approved by the Bankruptcy Court and carries a performance condition requirement. This performance
award provides designated participants the opportunity to receive fully vested shares of common stock upon the achievement of specified
consolidated EBITDA during the fiscal year 2011. Results of EBITDA will be adjusted to exclude certain categories of income and
expense as defined in the 2010 EAP. Approximately 0.6 million shares will be awarded based upon the achievement against the performance
goal and will vest and be distributed to the participants in March 2012.
 
In February 2011, we granted 0.1 million time-based RSU’s
to non-employee directors with a fair market value of the quoted closing price of our stock on that date. These RSU’s will
vest ratably over a two-year period.
 
In November 2010, we granted under the EIP Settlement Plan 0.4 million
time-based RSU’s relating to the 2009 EIP with a fair market value of the quoted closing price of our stock on that date.
One third vested immediately, one third vested on March 31, 2011 and one third vests on March 31, 2012.
 

82
 

 
RSUs award activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows:
 


  
   
Weighted  
  

  
   
Average  
Aggregate 

  
Shares  
Grant Date  
Fair Value 

  
(in millions)  
Fair Value  
(in millions) 

Unvested RSU awards, January 1, 2009 
 2.0  
$8.58  
   

Canceled or expired 
 (0.8) 
 7.00  
   

Unvested RSU awards, December 31, 2009 
 1.2  
 9.51  
 2 

Cancelled 
 (1.2) 
 9.51  
   

Granted 
 0.4  
 15.50  
   

Vested 
 (0.1) 
 15.50  
 2 

Unvested RSU awards, December 31, 2010 
 0.3  
 15.50  
 5 

Cancelled 
 (0.1) 
 15.97  
   

Granted 
 1.0  
 16.00  
   

Vested 
 (0.3) 
 15.74  
 5 

Unvested RSU awards, December 31, 2011 
 0.9  
$15.91  
$10 

 
Total remaining unrecognized compensation expense associated with
unvested RSUs at December 31, 2011 was $9 million, which will be recognized over the weighted average period of approximately 2
years.
 
Tax Benefits of Stock-Based Compensation Plans
 
ASC 718 Stock Compensation requires the benefits of tax deductions
in excess of grant-date fair value be presented in the cash flows from financing section of our Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows.  We did not obtain any cash tax benefit associated with shares exercised during the year ended December 31, 2011and
2010, as we generated tax net operating losses.  Cash proceeds received from option exercises during 2011 was $1 million.
 

14)PENSION AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT PLANS 
 
We have several defined benefit and defined contribution pension
plans covering substantially all of our domestic employees and certain international employees. Benefits under the defined benefit
plans are primarily based on the employees' years of service and compensation during employment. Effective January 1, 2006, we
eliminated future earnings benefits to participants of our domestic defined benefit plans for non-bargained employees. All active
non-bargained employees would subsequently earn benefits under defined contribution plans for all service incurred on or after
January 1, 2006. Our funding policy for the defined benefit plans is based on contributions at the minimum annual amounts required
by law plus such amounts as we may deem appropriate. Contributions for the defined contribution plans are determined as a percentage
of the covered employee’s salary. Plan assets consist of publicly traded securities and investments in commingled funds administered
by independent investment advisors.
 
International employees are covered by various pension benefit arrangements,
some of which are considered to be defined benefit plans for financial reporting purposes. Assets of these plans are comprised
primarily of equity investments and fixed-income investments. Benefits under these plans are primarily based upon levels of compensation.
Funding policies are based on legal requirements, tax considerations and local practices.
 
We also provide health and life insurance benefits for substantially
all of our active domestic employees and certain retired and international employees. These plans are generally not prefunded and
are paid by us as incurred.
 
In 2009, the Bankruptcy Court authorized us to modify certain benefits
under our sponsored post-retirement health care plans. In March 2010, certain participants of these plans were notified of the
amendments to their benefits. As a result of these amendments, we recognized a $20 million decrease in our U.S. post-retirement
health care plan obligations during 2010, with the offset reflected within AOCL.
 

83
 

 
On November 18, 2009, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order (the
“2009 OPEB Order”) approving, in part, our motion (the “2009 OPEB Motion”) requesting authorization to
modify certain post-retirement welfare benefits (the “OPEB Benefits”) under our post-retirement welfare benefit plans
(the “OPEB Plans”), including the OPEB Benefits of certain Uniroyal salaried retirees (the “Uniroyal Salaried
Retirees”). On April 5, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order denying the Uniroyal Salaried Retirees’ motion
to reconsider the 2009 OPEB Order based, among other things, on the Uniroyal Salaried Retirees’ failure to file a timely
objection to the 2009 OPEB Motion. On April 8, 2010, the Uniroyal Salaried Retirees appealed the Bankruptcy Court's April 5, 2010
order and on April 14, 2010, sought a stay pending their appeal (the “Stay”) of the 2009 OPEB Order as to our right
to modify the OPEB Benefits. On April 21, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court ordered us not to modify the Uniroyal Salaried Retirees’
OPEB Benefits, pending a hearing and decision as to the Stay. After consulting with the official committees of unsecured creditors
and equity security holders, we requested that the Bankruptcy Court have a hearing to decide, as a matter of law, whether we have
the right to modify the OPEB Benefits of the Uniroyal Salaried Retirees as requested in the 2009 OPEB Motion. In November 2011,
we reached an agreement in principle with a steering committee of the Uniroyal Salaried Retirees resolving all disputes concerning
the 2009 OPEB Motion.  The agreement in principle remains subject to documentation, execution by the parties and Bankruptcy
Court approval upon notice to all Uniroyal Salaried Retirees, which is expected in the first quarter of 2012.
 
In addition, on January 6, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court heard arguments
regarding whether we had the right to modify the OPEB Benefits, as requested in the 2009 OPEB Motion, with respect to certain retirees
who were represented by the United Steelworkers, or one of its predecessor unions, while employed by us (the “USW Retirees”)
and as to whom the Bankruptcy Court did not rule as part of the 2009 OPEB Order. The Bankruptcy Court determined that it could
not, without an evidentiary hearing, rule on the 2009 OPEB Motion as it relates to the USW Retirees. After extensive negotiations
with the USW Retirees, the Debtors reached consensual resolution with respect to modification of their OPEB Benefits, eliminating
the need for an evidentiary hearing. On September 17, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court approved the settlement and authorized the Debtors
to modify certain benefits under their sponsored post-retirement health care plans. Such modifications were effectively communicated
to the affected participants in December 2010. As a result of these modifications, we recognized a $7 million decrease in our U.S.
post-retirement health care plan obligations in 2010, with the offset reflected within AOCL.
 
As previously disclosed, on December 22, 2010, the UK Pensions Regulator
issued a “warning notice” to us, stating their intent to request authority to issue a “financial support direction”
against us for the support of the benefit obligations under one of our UK pension plans. Our UK subsidiary that is responsible
for this plan has entered into definitive agreements with the trustees of that plan over the terms of a “recovery plan”
which will provide for additional cash contributions to be made to reduce its underfunding over time and the UK Pensions Regulator
has withdrawn the “warning notice.” The agreements provide, among other things, for our UK subsidiary to make cash
contributions of £60 million (approximately $95 million) in just over a three year period starting with an initial contribution
of £30 million ($49 million) that we made in the second quarter of 2011. The agreements also provide for the granting of
both a security interest and a guarantee to support certain of the liabilities under this pension plan.
 
There is also an evaluation being undertaken as to whether additional
benefit obligations exist in connection with the equalization of certain benefits under the UK Pension Plan that occurred in the
early 1990s. Based on the results of the evaluation to date, $8 million of expense has been recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011,
which may be subject to adjustment as further information is gathered as part of the evaluation. Upon completion of the evaluation
and the finalization of the liability with respect to additional benefit obligations, additional cash contributions to the UK Pension
Plan may be required starting in 2013
 

84
 

 
Benefit Obligations


  
Defined Benefit Pension Plans  
  

  
Qualified  
International and  
Post-Retirement 

  
Domestic Plans  
Non-Qualified Plans  
Health Care Plans 

(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

Change in projected benefit obligation: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year 
$934  
$874  
$425  
$421  
$104  
$150 

Service cost 
 1  
 1  
 3  
 3  
 1  
 - 

Interest cost 
 46  
 48  
 22  
 22  
 5  
 7 

Plan participants' contributions 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 - 

Actuarial (gains) losses 
 50  
 76  
 (12) 
 29  
 18  
 (12)

Benefits paid 
 (60) 
 (60) 
 (19) 
 (20) 
 (11) 
 (15)

Plan amendments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (27)

Business divestitures (a) 
 -  
 (5) 
 -  
 (22) 
 -  
 - 

Foreign currency exchange rate 
 -  
 -  
 (4) 
 (14) 
 (1) 
 1 

Other 
 -  
 -  
 5  
 5  
 -  
 - 

Projected benefit obligation at end of year 
$971  
$934  
$420  
$425  
$116  
$104 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year 
$970  
$933  
$410  
$412  
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Weighted-average year-end assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Discount rate 
 4.60% 
 5.10% 
 4.85% 
 5.25% 
 4.26% 
 4.78%

Rate of compensation increase 
 4.00% 
 4.00% 
 3.22% 
 3.35% 
 N/A  
 N/A 

Health care cost trend rate 
    
    
    
    
 6.86% 
 7.40%

 
(a)
Business divestitures represent the sale of our PVC additives business in April 2010.
 
A 6.86% weighted-average rate of increase in the health care cost
trend rate was assumed for the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2011. The rate was assumed to
decrease gradually to a weighted average rate of 5.0% over approximately the next 6 to 9 years. Assumed health care cost trend
rates have a significant effect on the post-retirement benefit obligation reported for the health care plans. A one percentage
point increase in assumed health care cost trend rates would increase the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation by $5
million for health care benefits as of December 31, 2011. A one percentage point decrease in assumed health care cost trend rates
would decrease the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation by $5 million for health care benefits as of December 31, 2011.
 
Plan Assets
 


  
Defined Benefit Pension Plans  
  

  
Qualified  
International and  
Post-Retirement 

  
Domestic Plans  
Non-Qualified Plans  
Health Care Plans 

(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

Change in plan assets: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 
$700  
$625  
$249  
$230  
$-  
$- 

Actual return on plan assets 
 77  
 86  
 11  
 25  
 -  
 - 

Employer contributions 
 20  
 50  
 63  
 18  
 11  
 15 

Plan participants' contributions 
 -  
 -  
 1  
 1  
 -  
 - 

Benefits paid 
 (60) 
 (60) 
 (19) 
 (20) 
 (11) 
 (15)

Business divestitures 
 -  
 (1) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Foreign currency exchange rate changes 
 -  
 -  
 (4) 
 (5) 
 -  
 - 

Other 
 -  
 -  
 5  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Fair value of plan assets at end of year 
$737  
$700  
$306  
$249  
$-  
$- 

 
Our pension plan assets are managed
by outside investment managers. Assets are monitored monthly to ensure they are within the range of parameters as set forth by
us. Our investment strategy with respect to pension assets is to achieve the expected rate of return within an acceptable or appropriate
level of risk. Our investment strategy is designed to promote diversification, to moderate volatility and to attempt to balance
the expected return with risk levels. The target allocations for qualified domestic plans are 50% equity securities, 45% fixed
income securities and 5% to all other types of investments. The target allocations for international pension plans are 60% equity
securities, 38% fixed income securities and 2% to all other types of investments. 
 

85
 

 
The fair values of our defined
benefit pension plan assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, by asset category are as follows:
 



  
Fair Value Measurements
    at December 31, 2011 

  
Defined Benefit Pension
    Plans 

  
Qualified Domestic
    Plans  
International and
    Non-Qualified Plans 

(In millions) 
Total  
Quoted Prices
    in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Observable
    Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable
    Inputs  (Level 3)  
Total  
Quoted Prices
    in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Observable
    Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable
    Inputs  (Level 3) 

Equity securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

U.S.equities (a) 
$47  
$47  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$- 

International equities (a) 
 56  
 56  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Pooled equity (b) 
 242  
 242  
 -  
 -  
 143  
 20  
 123  
 - 

Preferred stock 
 1  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Fixed income securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government bonds (c) 
 172  
 -  
 172  
 -  
 -  
 -  
    
 - 

International government bonds (c) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 58  
 -  
 58  
 - 

U.S. corporate bonds (d) 
 180  
 -  
 180  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 1  
 - 

International corporate bonds (d) 
 27  
 -  
 27  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Pooled fixed income funds (e) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 97  
 -  
 97  
 - 

Private equity & other insturments (f) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 6  
 -  
 -  
 6 

Money market funds (g) 
 11  
 11  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Cash & cash equivalents 
 1  
 1  
 -  
 -  
 1  
 1  
 -  
 - 

  
$737  
$357  
$380  
$-  
$306  
$21  
$279  
$6 



 



  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010 

  
Defined Benefit Pension Plans 

  
Qualified Domestic Plans  
International and Non-Qualified Plans 

  
   
Quoted  
   
   
   
Quoted  
   
  

  
   
Prices in  
   
   
   
Prices in  
   
  

  
   
Active  
   
   
   
Active  
   
  

  
   
Markets for  
Significant  
Significant  
   
Markets for  
Significant  
Significant 

  
   
Identical  
Observable  
Unobservable  
   
Identical  
Observable  
Unobservable 

  
   
Assets  
Inputs  
Inputs  
   
Assets  
Inputs  
Inputs 

(in millions) 
Total  
(Level 1)  
(Level 2)  
(Level 3)  
Total  
(Level 1)  
(Level 2)  
(Level 3) 

Equity securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

U.S.equities (a) 
$80  
$80  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$-  
$- 

International equities (a) 
 62  
 62  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Pooled equity (b) 
 247  
 247  
 -  
 -  
 154  
 20  
 134  
 - 

Preferred stock 
 1  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Fixed income securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government bonds (c) 
 122  
 -  
 122  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

International government bonds (c) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 2  
 -  
 2  
 - 

U.S. corporate bonds (d) 
 152  
 -  
 152  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

International corporate bonds (d) 
 24  
 -  
 24  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 1  
 - 

Pooled fixed income funds (e) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 89  
 -  
 89  
 - 

Private equity & other insturments (f) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 -  
 1 

Money market funds (g) 
 10  
 10  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Cash & cash equivalents 
 2  
 2  
 -  
 -  
 2  
 2  
 -  
 - 

  
$700  
$401  
$299  
$-  
$249  
$22  
$226  
$1 


 

(a)U.S. and international equities are comprised of shares of common stock in various sized U.S. and international companies from
a diverse set of industries. Common stock is valued at the closing price reported on the U.S. and international exchanges where
the security is actively traded.

(b)Pooled equity funds include mutual and collective funds that invest primarily in marketable equity securities of various sized
companies in a diverse set of industries in various regions of the world. Shares of publicly traded mutual funds are valued at
the closing price reported on the U.S. and international exchanges where the underlying securities are actively traded. Units of
collective funds are valued at the per unit value determined by the fund manager, which is based on market price of the underlying
securities.
 

(c)U.S. and international government bonds include U.S. treasury, municipal and agency obligations and international government
debt. Such instruments are valued at quoted market prices for those instruments or on institutional bid valuations. The increase
in the value of the U.S. bonds is due mainly to improved performance in 2011. The increase in the value of the international bonds
is primarily due to the $49 million contribution we made to one of our UK pension plans.
 

(d)U.S. and international corporate bonds are from a diverse set of industries and regions. Such instruments are valued using
similar securities in active markets and observable data or broker or dealer quotations.

86
 

 

(e)Pooled fixed income funds are fixed income funds that invest primarily in corporate and government bonds. Such instruments
are valued using similar securities in active markets and observable data or broker or dealer quotations.
 

(f)Private equity and other instruments include instruments for which there are significant unobservable inputs. The increase
in the fair value of these assets of $5 million during 2011 primarily related to the addition of annuity contracts related to two
of our international plans.
 

(g)Money market funds primarily include high-grade money market instruments with short maturities (less than 90 days).
 
Funded Status
 
The funded
status at the end of the year, and the related amounts recognized on the statement of financial condition, are as follows: 
 




  
Defined Benefit Pension Plans  
  

  
Qualified  
International and  
Post-Retirement 

  
Domestic Plans  
Non-Qualified Plans  
Health Care Plans 

(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

Funded status, end of year: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Fair value of plan assets 
$737  
$700  
$306  
$249  
$-  
$- 

Benefit obligations 
 971  
 934  
 420  
 425  
 116  
 104 

Net amount recognized 
$(234) 
$(234) 
$(114) 
$(176) 
$(116) 
$(104)

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the end of year consist of: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Noncurrent assets 
$-  
 -  
 12  
 1  
 -  
 - 

Current liability 
 -  
 -  
 (6) 
 (7) 
 (10) 
 (10)

Noncurrent liability 
 (234) 
 (234) 
 (120) 
 (170) 
 (106) 
 (94)

Liabilities subject to compromise 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Liabilities of discontinued operations 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Net amount recognized 
$(234) 
$(234) 
$(114) 
$(176) 
$(116) 
$(104)

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net actuarial loss/(gain) 
$399  
$382  
$73  
$81  
$51  
$35 

Prior service cost/(credit) 
 1  
 1  
 1  
 -  
 (58) 
 (64)

  
$400  
$383  
$74  
$81  
$(7) 
$(29)

 
The estimated amounts that will
be amortized from AOCL into net periodic benefit cost (credit) in 2012 are as follows:
 



  
   
International  
Post- 

  
Qualified  
and Non-  
Retirement 

  
Domestic  
Qualified  
Health Care 

(In millions) 
Plans  
Plans  
Plans 

Actuarial loss 
$15  
$2  
$3 

Prior service credit 
 -  
 -  
 (5)

Total amorization cost (credit) 
$15  
$2  
$(2)


 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the current liabilities positions
are included in accrued expenses in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and the non-current liabilities positions are shown as pension
and post-retirement health care liabilities.
 
Our funding assumptions for our domestic pension plans assume no
significant change with regards to demographics, legislation, plan provisions, or actuarial assumptions or methods to determine
the estimated funding requirements. We contributed approximately $94 million and $83 million to our pension and post retirement
plans in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The 2011 contribution includes $49 million for one of our UK pension plans as required by
the “recovery plan” agreed to with the trustees of that plan. The 2010 contribution included a $50 million voluntary
contribution to our domestic qualified plans, which resulted from an agreement entered into with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
related to our emergence from bankruptcy. There were no discretionary contributions to our domestic qualified plan in 2011 or to
our international plans during 2011 and 2010.
 

87
 


 
The projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for
pension and post-retirement plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were
as follows:

 



(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

Projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at end of year: 
    
   

Projected benefit obligation 
$1,305  
$1,452 

Fair value of plan assets 
 829  
 937 


 
The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation
and fair value of plan assets for pension and post-retirement plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets
at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:

 



(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

Accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at end of year: 
    
   

Projected benefit obligation 
$1,133  
$1,347 

Accumulated benefit obligation 
 1,130  
 1,334 

Fair value of plan assets 
 778  
 936 


 
Expected Cash Flows
 
Information about the expected
cash flows for the domestic qualified defined benefit plans, international and non-qualified defined benefit plans and post-retirement
health care plans are as follows:

 



  
Defined Benefit Pension Plans  
  

  
   
International  
Post- 

  
Qualified  
and  
Retirement 

  
Domestic  
Non-Qualified  
Health Care 

(in millions) 
Plans  
Plans  
Plans 

Expected Employer Contributions: 
    
    
   

2012 
$40  
$34  
$10 

  
    
    
   

Expected Benefit Payments (a): 
    
    
   

2012 
 61  
 19  
 10 

2013 
 61  
 19  
 9 

2014 
 61  
 20  
 9 

2015 
 61  
 20  
 9 

2016 
 62  
 20  
 9 

2017-2021 
 310  
 113  
 38 


 

(a)The expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used to measure our benefit obligation at the end of the year
and include benefits attributable to estimated future employee service.
 

88
 

 
Net Periodic Cost
 



  
Defined Benefit Pension Plans  
  

  
Qualified  
International and  
Post-Retirement 

  
Domestic Plans  
Non-Qualified Plans  
Health Care Plans 

(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Components of net periodic benefit cost (credit): 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Service cost 
$1  
$1  
$-  
$3  
$3  
$3  
$1  
$-  
$- 

Interest cost 
 46  
 48  
 50  
 22  
 22  
 22  
 5  
 7  
 9 

Expected return on plan assets 
 (56) 
 (55) 
 (56) 
 (18) 
 (18) 
 (18) 
 -  
 -  
 - 

Amortization of prior service cost 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (6) 
 (5) 
 (6)

Recognized actuarial losses 
 12  
 7  
 5  
 2  
 1  
 1  
 2  
 3  
 2 

Curtailment gain recognized 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Settlement loss recognized 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Other 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1 

Net periodic benefit cost (credit) 
$3  
$1  
$(1) 
$9  
$8  
$8  
$2  
$5  
$6 


 



  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Discount rate 
 5.10% 
 5.70% 
 6.00% 
 5.14% 
 5.66% 
 5.90% 
 5.14% 
 5.49% 
 6.04%

Expected return on plan assets 
 7.75% 
 8.00% 
 7.75% 
 6.80% 
 7.60% 
 7.50% 
    
    
   

Rate of compensation increase 
 4.00% 
 4.00% 
 4.00% 
 3.34% 
 2.96% 
 3.60% 
    
    
   


 
The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our investment
strategy, historical experience, and our expectations for long term rates of return. We determine the long-term rate of return
assumptions for the domestic and international pension plans based on its investment allocation between various asset classes.
The expected rate of return on plan assets is derived by applying the expected returns on various asset classes to our target asset
allocation. The expected returns are based on the expected performance of the various asset classes and are further supported by
historical investment returns. We utilized a weighted average expected long-term rate of 7.75% on all domestic assets and a weighted
average rate of 6.80% for the international plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on
the service and interest cost components reported for the health care plans. A one percentage point increase in assumed health
care cost trend rates increases the service and interest cost components of net periodic post-retirement health care benefit cost
by less than $1 million for 2011. A one percentage point decrease in assumed health care cost trend rates decreases the service
and interest cost components of net periodic post-retirement health care benefit cost by less than $1 million for 2011.
 
Our cost of the defined contribution plans was $13 million for 2011,
$12 million for 2010 and $13 million for 2009.
 

15)DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
 
Our activities expose our earnings, cash flows and financial condition
to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and energy prices.
We maintain a risk management strategy that may utilize derivative instruments to mitigate risk against foreign currency movements
and to manage energy price volatility. In accordance with ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (“ASC 815”),
we recognize in AOCL any changes in the fair value of all derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments. We do not enter
into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
 


89
 


 
 
We have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates resulting
from transactions entered into by us and our foreign subsidiaries in currencies other than their functional currency (primarily
trade payables and receivables). We are also exposed to currency risk on intercompany transactions (including intercompany loans).
We manage these currency risks on a consolidated basis, which allows us to net our exposure. Prior to our Chapter 11 filing, these
contracts were generally recognized in other income (expense), net to offset the impact of valuing recorded foreign currency trade
payables, receivables and intercompany transactions. We had not designated these derivatives as hedges, although we believe these
instruments reduced our exposure to foreign currency risk. In 2009, we recognized a loss of $26 million in other expense, net associated
with the foreign exchange contracts. However, as a result of the changes in our financial condition and our financing agreements,
we were unable to continue our prior practice during the course of our Chapter 11 proceedings. The financing agreements that we
entered into in connection with our emergence from Chapter 11 permit us to purchase contracts and derivatives to manage foreign
exchange and other financial risks subject to certain limitations.
 
The net effect of the realized and unrealized gains and losses recognized
in other expense, net on the foreign exchange derivatives and the underlying transactions resulted in a pre-tax loss of $2 million,
$11 million and $22 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. No derivatives were outstanding as of December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009.
 
16)     FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
 
Financial Instruments
 
The carrying amounts for
cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, other current assets, accounts payable and other current liabilities, excluding
liabilities subject to compromise, approximate their fair value because of the short-term maturities of these instruments. The
fair value of debt is based primarily on quoted market values. 
 
The following table presents
the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of material financial instruments used by us in the normal course of our business:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
Carrying  
Fair  
Carrying  
Fair 

(In millions) 
Amount  
Value  
Amount  
Value 

 
    
    
    
   

Total debt 
$753  
$777  
$751  
$786 

  
Fair Value Measurements
 
We apply provisions of
ASC 820 with respect to our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value within the financial statements on
a recurring basis. ASC 820 specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether the inputs to those valuation techniques
are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs
reflect our market assumptions. The fair value hierarchy specified by ASC 820 is as follows:
 

·Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets
for identical assets and liabilities.

·Level 2 – Quoted prices for similar assets
and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active
or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market date.

·Level 3 – Unobservable inputs that are
supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets and liabilities.
 
Level 1 fair value measurements
in 2011 and 2010 included the deferral of compensation, our match and investment earnings related to the Supplemental Savings Plan.
These securities are considered our general assets until distributed to the participant and are included in other assets in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets. A corresponding liability is included in other liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 in our Consolidated
Balance Sheets. Quoted market prices were used to determine fair values of these investments (Level 1) which are held in a trust
with a third-party brokerage firm. The fair value of the asset and corresponding liability was $1 million at December 31, 2011
and 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2011, there were no transfers into or out of Level 1 and Level 2.
 

90
 

  
Level 3 fair value measurements
are utilized in our impairment reviews of Goodwill (see Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets). Fair value measurements
of benefit plan assets included in net benefit plan liabilities are discussed in Note 14 – Pension and Other Post-Retirement
Plans.
 
17)     ASSET
RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS
 
We apply the provisions of ASC Topic 410, Asset Retirements and
Environmental Obligations (“ASC 410”), which require companies to make estimates regarding future events in order
to record a liability for asset retirement obligations in the period in which a legal obligation is created. Such liabilities are
recorded at fair value, with an offsetting increase to the carrying value of the related long-lived assets. The fair value is estimated
by discounting projected cash flows over the estimated life of the assets using our credit adjusted risk-free rate applicable at
the time the obligation is initially recorded. In future periods, the liability is accreted to its present value and the capitalized
cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. We also adjust the liability for changes resulting from revisions
to the timing or the amount of the original estimate. Upon retirement of the long-lived asset, we either settle the obligation
for its recorded amount or incur a gain or loss.
 
Our asset retirement obligations include estimates for all asset
retirement obligations identified for our worldwide facilities. Our asset retirement obligations are primarily the result of legal
obligations for the removal of leasehold improvements and restoration of premises to their original condition upon termination
of leases at approximately 23 facilities; legal obligations to close approximately 89 brine supply, brine disposal, waste disposal,
and hazardous waste injection wells and the related pipelines at the end of their useful lives; and decommissioning and decontamination
obligations that are legally required to be fulfilled upon closure of approximately 33 of our manufacturing facilities.
 
The following is a summary
of the change in the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligations during 2011 and 2010, the net book value of assets related
to the asset retirement obligations at December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the related depreciation expense recorded in 2011 and 2010.
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010 

Asset retirement obligation balance at beginning of year 
$23  
$26 

Revisions (a) 
 1  
 (3)

Accretion expense – cost of goods sold (b) 
 -  
 2 

Accretion expense – loss from discontinued operations (c) 
 -  
 (1)

Payments 
 (3) 
 (1)

Asset retirement obligation balance at end of year 
$21  
$23 

  
    
   

Net book value of asset retirement obligation assets at end of year 
$1  
$1 

  
    
   

Depreciation expense 
$-  
$- 

 

(a)The addition in 2011 primarily relates to a reclassification of asset retirement costs that were previously recorded in another
accrued expense account. The 2010 reversal includes the sale of our natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines
in July 2010.
 

(b)The decrease in accretion expense in 2011 as compared to 2010 is primarily due to the revision of costs related to various
reorganization initiatives implemented in 2009 and 2010, which resulted in the acceleration of certain costs in 2010 and the reduction
of certain costs in 2011.
 

(c)Includes the reversal of asset retirement obligations related to the sale of our PVC additives business in April 2010.
 
At December 31, 2011, $6 million of the asset retirement obligation
balance was included in accrued expenses and $15 million was included in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. At
December 31, 2010, $11 million of the asset retirement obligation balance was included in accrued expenses, $12 million was included
in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 

91
 

 
18)     EMERGENCE
FROM CHAPTER 11
 
The onset of the global recession in the fourth quarter of 2008
caused a rapid deterioration in our operating performance, reductions in availability under our credit facilities and reduced our
liquidity. The crisis in the credit markets that had deepened in the late summer of 2008 compounded the liquidity challenges we
faced. Under normal market conditions, we believed we would have been able to secure additional liquidity and refinance our $370
million notes that were due to mature on July 15, 2009 (the “2009 Notes”) in the debt capital markets. In the first
quarter of 2009, having carefully explored and exhausted all possibilities to gain near-term access to liquidity, we determined
that DIP financing presented the best available alternative for us to meet our immediate and ongoing liquidity needs and preserve
the value of our business. As a result, having obtained the commitment of the $400 million DIP Credit Facility, Chemtura and 26
of our U.S. affiliates (collectively the “U.S. Debtors”, or the “Debtors” when used in relation to matters
before August 8, 2010) filed Chapter 11 on the Petition Date in the Bankruptcy Court.
 
On August 8, 2010, our Canadian subsidiary, Chemtura Canada Co/Cie
(“Chemtura Canada”), filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11. On August 11, 2010, Chemtura Canada commenced
ancillary recognition proceedings under Part IV of the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act (the “CCAA”) in the
Ontario Superior Court of Justice (the “Canadian Court” and such proceedings, the “Canadian Case”). The
U.S. Debtors along with Chemtura Canada after it filed for Chapter 11 (collectively the “Debtors”) requested the Bankruptcy
Court to enter an order jointly administering Chemtura Canada’s Chapter 11 case with the previously filed Chapter 11 cases
and appoint Chemtura Canada as the “foreign representative” for the purposes of the Canadian Case. Such orders were
granted on August 9, 2010. On August 11, 2010, the Canadian Court entered an order recognizing the Chapter 11 cases as a “foreign
proceedings” under the CCAA.
 
On June 17, 2010, the U.S. Debtors filed the initial version of
our plan of reorganization and related disclosure statement (as amended, modified or supplemented, the “Plan” and “Disclosure
Statement”) with the Bankruptcy Court and on July 9, 2010, July 20, 2010, August 5, 2010, September 14, 2010 and September
20, 2010, the Debtors filed revised versions of the Plan and Disclosure Statement with the Bankruptcy Court. The final version
of the Plan was filed with the Bankruptcy Court on October 29, 2010. The Plan organized claims against the Debtors into classes
according to their relative priority and certain other criteria. For each class, the Plan described (a) the type of claim or interest,
(b) the recovery available to the holders of claims or interests in that class under the Plan, (c) whether the class was “impaired”
under the Plan, meaning that each holder would receive less than the full value on account of its claim or interest or that the
rights of holders under law will be altered in some way (such as receiving stock instead of holding a claim) and (d) the form of
consideration (e.g., cash, stock or a combination thereof), if any, that such holders were to receive on account of their respective
claims or interests.
 
Distributions to creditors under the Plan generally included a combination
of New Common Stock, cash, reinstatement or such other treatment as agreed between the Debtors and the applicable creditor. Certain
creditors were eligible to elect, when voting on the Plan, to receive their recovery in the form of the maximum available amount
of cash or the maximum available amount of New Common Stock. Holders of Interests, based upon their vote as a class to reject the
Plan, received their pro rata share of value available for distribution, after all allowed claims have been paid in full and certain
disputed claims reserves required by the Plan have been established in accordance with the terms of the Plan. The Plan provides
that Holders of Interests may also be entitled to supplemental distributions if amounts reserved on account of disputed claims
exceed the value of claims that are ultimately allowed and two such supplemental distributions have been made to date.
 
On October 21, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court entered a bench decision
approving confirmation of the Debtors’ Plan and on November 3, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the
Plan. On the Effective Date, the Debtors substantially consummated their reorganization through a series of transactions contemplated
by the Plan and the Plan became effective. Pursuant to the Plan, on the Effective Date: (i) our common stock, par value $0.01 per
share, outstanding prior to effectiveness of the Plan was cancelled and all of our outstanding publicly registered pre-petition
indebtedness was settled, and (ii) shares of our New Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, were issued for distribution in accordance
with the Plan. On November 8, 2010, the NYSE approved for listing a total of 111 million shares of New Common Stock, as authorized
under the Plan, comprising: (i) approximately 95.5 million shares of New Common Stock to be issued under the Plan; (ii) approximately
4.5 million shares of New Common Stock reserved for future issuances under the Plan; and (iii) 11 million shares of New Common
Stock reserved for issuance under our equity plans. Our New Common Stock started trading on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “CHMT”
on November 11, 2010.
 
The Plan provided for payment in full including interest in certain
circumstances on all allowed claims. Holders of Interests received a pro-rata share of New Common Stock in accordance with the
Plan together with the potential right to receive supplemental distributions in certain circumstances.
 

92
 

 
At the Effective Date, we determined that we did not meet the requirements
under ASC Section 852-10-45 to adopt fresh start accounting because the reorganized value of our assets exceeded the carrying value
of our liabilities. Fresh start accounting would have required us to record assets and liabilities at fair value as of the Effective
Date.
 
Pursuant to the Plan, and by orders of the Bankruptcy Court dated
September 24, 2010, October 19, 2010 and October 29, 2010, the Debtors established the Diacetyl Reserve, the Environmental Reserve
and the Disputed Claims Reserve on account of disputed claims as of the Effective Date. All claims as to which an objection was
filed and ultimately allowed by the Bankruptcy Court regarding Diacetyl and environmental matters have been satisfied through the
Diacetyl and Environmental reserves. To the extent remaining claims are allowed by the Bankruptcy Court, these claims will be paid
from the Disputed Claims Reserve. These reserves have been funded through cash (which is reflected as restricted cash in our Consolidated
Balance Sheet) and shares of common stock reserved for future issuance. Accruals for expected allowed claims relating to these
disputed claims are recorded when the settlement amount is probable and reasonably estimable which may differ from the total of
the approved reserve amount.
 
Pursuant to the Plan and the October 29, 2010 order approving the
Disputed Claims Reserve, Holders of Interests in Chemtura may also be entitled to supplemental distributions (in the form of cash
and/or stock) if amounts reserved on account of disputed claims exceed the value of claims that are ultimately allowed. These Holders
of Interests will be entitled to a portion of any excess value held in specified segregated reserves within the Disputed Claims
Reserve following the resolution of the claims for which the segregated reserves are held. These Holders of Interests will also
be entitled to all excess value held in the Disputed Claims Reserve after all disputed claims are either disallowed or allowed
and satisfied from the Disputed Claims Reserve. If authorized by the Bankruptcy Court, Holders of Interests may also be entitled
to interim distributions from the Disputed Claims Reserve if the Bankruptcy Court determines that the amount held in the reserve
may be reduced before all disputed claims have been allowed or disallowed. In March 2011 and August 2011, we made supplemental
distributions to Holders of Interests in accordance with the Plan and as authorized by the Bankruptcy Court. On January 5, 2012,
we filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court seeking authority to make a third supplemental distribution to Holders of Interests,
which was granted by the Bankruptcy Court on January 26, 2012. The supplemental distribution is scheduled to begin on or before
March 2, 2012 and is currently expected to be approximately $15 million payable in cash and stock.  To the extent we are able
to resolve additional remaining disputed claims before that date, we may seek Court approval to modify the date of the supplemental
distribution, further increase the supplemental distribution and/or combine the supplemental distribution with the final distribution
to Holders of Interests.
 
As of December 31, 2011, as a result of distributions pursuant to
the Plan, there were no remaining undisbursed amount in the Environmental Reserve, the Diacetyl Reserve or the segregated reserves,
and the remaining undisbursed amount in the Disputed Claims Reserve was $29 million. Any remaining Disputed Claims, to the extent
they are ultimately allowed by the Bankruptcy Court, will be satisfied (to the extent allowed and not covered by insurance) from
the Disputed Claims Reserve. A summary of the above described approved distributable claims reserves is as follows:
 


  
   
   
Disputed  
   
  

  
Diacetyl  
Environmental  
Claims  
Segregated  
Total 

(In millions) 
Reserve  
Reserve  
Reserve  
Reserves  
Reserves 

Distributable amount approved at Effective Date 
$7  
$38  
$42  
$30  
$117 

Settlements 
 (7) 
 (9) 
 (2) 
 (4) 
 (22)

Distributable balance at December 31, 2010 
 -  
 29  
 40  
 26  
 95 

Settlements 
 -  
 (27) 
 (27) 
 (2) 
 (56)

Supplemental distributions 
 -  
 -  
 (5) 
 (12) 
 (17)

Reclass to disputed claims reserve 
 -  
 (2) 
 14  
 (12) 
 - 

Insurance Reimbursements 
 -  
 -  
 7  
 -  
 7 

Distributable balance at December 31, 2011 
$-  
$-  
$29  
$-  
$29 

 

93
 

 
The reorganization items, net recorded in our Consolidated Statements
of Operations relating to our Chapter 11 cases compromise the following:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Professional fees and other 
$16  
$117  
 60 

Write-off of debt discounts and premiums (a) 
 -  
 (2) 
 24 

Write-off of debt issuance costs (a) 
 -  
 -  
 7 

Write-off of deferred charges related to termination of U.S. accounts receivable facility 
 -  
 -  
 4 

Rejections or terminations of lease and other contract agreements (b) 
 -  
 2  
 9 

Severance - closure of manufacturing plants and warehouses (b) 
 1  
 3  
 1 

Claim settlements, net (c) 
 2  
 183  
 (8)

  
    
    
   

Total reorganization items, net 
$19  
$303  
 97 

  

(a)During 2009, the carrying value of pre-petition debt was adjusted to its respective face value as this represented the expected
allowable claim in the Chapter 11 cases. As a result, unamortized debt issuance costs, discounts and premiums were charged to reorganization
items, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. During 2010, further adjustments were made based on the allowed claim.

(b)Represents charges for cost savings initiatives for which Bankruptcy Court approval has been obtained or requested. For additional
information see Note 3 – Restructuring and Asset Impairment Activities.


(c)Represents the difference between the settlement amount of certain pre-petition obligations (which for obligations settled
in New Common Stock is based on the fair value of our stock at the issuance date) and the corresponding carrying value of the recorded
liabilities.
 
On June 10, 2011, we filed a closing report in Chemtura Canada’s
Chapter 11 case and a motion seeking a final decree closing that Chapter 11 case. On June 23, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court granted
our motion and entered a final decree closing the Chapter 11 case of Chemtura Canada.
 
On December 1, 2011, we filed a motion requesting
entry of an order granting a final decree closing the Chapter 11 cases for the following debtors (the “Fully Administered
Debtors”):
 


· A&M Cleaning Products LLC
· Crompton Colors Incorporated
· Laurel Industries Holdings, Inc.

· Aqua Clear Industries, LLC
· Crompton Holding Corporation
· Monochem, Inc.

· ASEPSIS, Inc.
· Crompton Monochem, Inc.
· Naugatuck Treatment Company

· ASCK, Inc.
· Great Lakes Chemical Global, Inc.
· Recreational Water Products, Inc.

· BioLab Company Store, LLC
· GT Seed Treatment, Inc.
· Weber City Road LLC

· Biolab Franchise Company, LLC
· HomeCare Labs, Inc
· WRL of Indiana, Inc.

· BioLab Textile Additives, LLC
· ISCI, Inc.
 

· CNK Chemical Realty Corporation
· Kem Manufacturing Corporation
 

 
On December 15, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order granting
a final decree closing the Fully Administered Debtors’ Chapter 11 cases.
 
On February 7, 2012, we filed a motion requesting entry of an order
granting a final decree closing the Chapter 11 cases for Bio-Lab, Inc. and GLCC Laurel, LLC.
 

19)LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
We are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings
and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions. A number of such matters involve, or may involve, claims for
a material amount of damages and relate to or allege environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with hazardous
waste disposal sites, natural resource damages, property damage and personal injury.
 
As a result of the Chapter 11 cases, substantially all pre-petition
litigation and claims against Chemtura and our subsidiaries that were Debtors in the Chapter 11 cases have been discharged and
permanently enjoined from further prosecution and are described under the subheading “Prepetition Litigation and Claims Discharged
under the Plan” below.
 

94
 

 
Claims and legal actions asserted against non-Debtors or relating
to events occurring after the Effective Date, certain regulatory and administrative proceedings and certain contractual and other
claims assumed with the authorization of the Bankruptcy Court, were not discharged in the Chapter 11 cases and are described under
the subheading “Litigation and Claims Not Discharged Under the Plan” below.
 
Prepetition Litigation and Claims Discharged Under the Plan
 
Chapter 11 Plan and Establishment of Claims
Reserves
 
On March 18, 2009, the Debtors filed voluntary petitions in the
Bankruptcy Court seeking relief under Chapter 11. The Debtors’ Chapter 11 cases have been assigned to the Honorable Robert
E. Gerber and are being jointly administered as Case No. 09-11233. The Debtors continued to operate their business as debtors in
possession under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court until their emergence from Chapter 11 on November 10, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the Plan, and by orders of the Bankruptcy Court dated
September 24, 2010, October 19, 2010 and October 29, 2010, the Debtors established the Diacetyl Reserve, the Environmental Reserve
and the Disputed Claims Reserve, each as defined in the Plan, on account of claims that were not yet allowed in the Chapter 11
cases as of the Effective Date, including proofs of claim asserted against the Debtors that were subject to objection as of the
Effective Date (the “Disputed Claims”). The Diacetyl Reserve was approved by the Bankruptcy Court in the amount of
$7 million, comprised of separate segregated reserves, and has since been reduced as settlement agreements have been approved by
the Bankruptcy Court. The Environmental Reserve was approved by the Bankruptcy Court in the amount of $38 million, a portion of
which was further segregated into certain separate reserves established to account for settlements that were pending Bankruptcy
Court approval, and has since been reduced as settlement agreements have been approved by the Bankruptcy Court. The Disputed Claims
Reserve was approved by the Bankruptcy Court in the amount of $42 million, plus additional segregated individual reserves for certain
creditors' claims in the aggregate amount of approximately $30 million, all of which have been reduced as settlement agreements
have been approved by the Bankruptcy Court.
 
On June 24, 2011, we resolved the last disputed Environmental Claim.
As a result, under the Plan, the amounts remaining in the Environmental Reserve were transferred to the Disputed Claims Reserve.
Any remaining Disputed Claims, to the extent they are ultimately allowed by the Bankruptcy Court, will be satisfied (to the extent
allowed and not covered by insurance) from the Disputed Claims Reserve, and holders of the Disputed Claims are permanently enjoined
under the Plan from pursuing their claims against us. As of December 31, 2011, as a result of distributions pursuant to the Plan,
there were no remaining undisbursed amount in the Environmental Reserve, the Diacetyl Reserve or the segregated reserves, and the
remaining undisbursed amount in the Disputed Claims Reserve was $29 million.
 
As we complete the process of evaluating and/or resolving the Disputed
Claims, appropriate adjustments to our Consolidated Financial Statements will be made. Adjustments may also result from actions
of the Bankruptcy Court, settlement negotiations, and other events. For additional information, see Note 18 – Emergence from
Chapter 11 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Certain Prepetition Litigation Against the
Debtors
 
Tricor: Our litigation with Tricor Refining, LLC (“Tricor”)
pending in the California Superior Court, Kern County, was settled during the Chapter 11 cases pursuant to a stipulation by which
Tricor agreed to convey certain property and assets to us and, in return, Tricor was granted a general unsecured claim in the Chapter
11 cases in the amount of approximately $2 million.
 

95
 

 
Conyers: Three putative class action lawsuits pending in
the Superior Court of Rockdale County, Georgia pertaining to the fire at our Conyers, Georgia warehouse on May 25, 2004 captioned
James and Carla Brown v. Bio-Lab, Inc., et al., Don Chapman et al. v. Bio-Lab, Inc., et al. and Deborah Davis, et al. v. Bio-Lab,
Inc., et al., one putative federal class action lawsuit captioned Bill Martin, et al. v. Bio-Lab, Inc., et al.
and several remaining individual lawsuits, including the lawsuit captioned Billy R. Brown, et al. v. Bio-Lab, Inc., et al.,
pending in the Superior Court of Rockdale County, Georgia will be resolved under a Class Action Settlement Agreement (the “Settlement
Agreement”) entered into on August 25, 2010. The Settlement Agreement provides for a settlement fund of $7 million to be
paid out to settlement class members on a claim-by-claim basis pursuant to certain procedures and a distribution formula set forth
in the Settlement Agreement. Those persons who have opted out of the settlement class and have filed a proof of claim during the
Chapter 11 cases may continue to pursue such claim in the Bankruptcy Court. We believe those persons who have opted out of the
Settlement Class and have not filed a proof of claim during the Chapter 11 cases will be barred by the Plan and discharge injunction
from pursuing their claims against us. By order dated September 10, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Debtors’ entry
into the Class Action Settlement Agreement, and preliminarily approved the class action settlement. In January 2011, the Bankruptcy
Court entered a final order approving the Settlement Agreement as fair, adequate and reasonable.
 
Diacetyl: Beginning before 2001, food industry factory workers
began alleging that exposure to diacetyl, a butter flavoring ingredient widely used in the food industry between 1982 and 2005,
caused respiratory illness.
 
During the Chapter 11 cases, approximately 373 non-duplicative proofs
of claim involving diacetyl were filed against us, approximately 366 of which were filed by individual claimants, and approximately
7 of which were filed by corporate re-sellers or users of diacetyl seeking contribution or indemnity (the “Corporate Claimants”).
The diacetyl claims included the claims of plaintiffs in 23 diacetyl lawsuits that were then pending against us and/or Chemtura
Canada, our wholly owned subsidiary.
 
We have entered into, and obtained Bankruptcy Court approval of,
settlement agreements to resolve all of the diacetyl claims filed by the individual claimants and the Corporate Claimants, except
for those claims that have been expunged by order of the Bankruptcy Court. We have also entered into and obtained Bankruptcy Court
approval of a settlement agreement with a key insurance carrier, AIG, with respect to the diacetyl claims, which provides for payment
of 50% of the diacetyl settlements entered into during the Chapter 11 cases. Claims subject to approved settlements have been treated
as allowed claims and satisfied pursuant to the Plan.
 
Australian Civil Antitrust Matters
 
On September 27, 2007, Chemtura and one of our subsidiaries who
did not file a Chapter 11 case, as well as Bayer AG and Bayer Australia Ltd., were sued by Wright Rubber Products Pty Ltd. (“Wright”)
in the Federal Court of Australia for alleged price fixing violations with respect to the sale of rubber chemicals in Australia.
On November 21, 2008, Wright filed an amended Statement of Claim and further amended its Statement of Claim on August 2, 2010.
On May 25, 2011, Chemtura and our subsidiary entered into a settlement agreement to resolve the litigation for an agreed allowed
unsecured claim of approximately $1 million which was paid from the Disputed Claim Reserve pursuant to the Plan.
 
Appeals Relating to the Chapter 11 Cases
 
During the Chapter 11 cases, a creditor, Pentair Water Pool &
Spa, Inc. (“Pentair”), appealed three orders of the Bankruptcy Court: (i) the Bankruptcy Court’s order establishing
the Disputed Claims Reserve; (ii) an order partially disallowing the claims asserted by Pentair; and (iii) an order overruling
the late-filed objection of Kurt and Amy Stetler to the Debtors’ motion seeking the establishment of the Disputed Claims
Reserve. On March 24, 2011, we entered into a term sheet for a cost-sharing agreement with Pentair that provides, among other things,
for the sharing of costs in relation to a settlement of the claims of Kurt and Amy Stetler and the dismissal of the appeals upon
our payment of the agreed share of the settlement costs. The parties subsequently negotiated definitive documentation of the agreements
and, on June 23, 2011, we filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court to approve the cost-sharing agreement and the settlement of
the claims of Kurt and Amy Stetler. The Bankruptcy Court approved the settlement on July 14, 2011. The District Court for the Southern
District of New York dismissed the appeals on December 1, 2011.
 

96
 

  
Litigation and Claims
Not Discharged Under the Plan
 
Chemtura Manufacturing UK Limited (“CMUK”) is the principal
employer of the Great Lakes UK Limited Pension Plan (the “UK Pension Plan”), an occupational pension scheme that was
established in the UK to provide pensions and other benefits for its employees. Under the UK Pension Plan, certain employees and
former employees are entitled to pension benefits, most of which are defined benefits in nature, based on pensionable salary. The
UK Pension Plan has approximately 580 pensioners and 690 members entitled to deferred benefits under the defined benefit section.
The estimated funding deficit of the UK Pension Plan as of December 31, 2008, as measured in accordance with Section 75 of the
Pension Act of 1995 (UK), was approximately £95 million.
 
The UK Pension Trustees filed 27 contingent, unliquidated Proofs
of Claim against each of the Debtors (other than Chemtura Canada) in the Chapter 11 cases. By agreement with the UK Pension Trustees,
the proofs of claim were disallowed on the condition that no party may later assert that the Chapter 11 cases operate as a bar
to the UK Pension Trustees asserting claims against any of the Debtors in an appropriate non-bankruptcy forum. Also as previously
disclosed, CMUK had been engaged with the UK Pension Trustees over the terms of a “recovery plan” to reduce the underfunded
deficit in the UK Pension Plan and the applicable regulatory authority, in this case the UK Pensions Regulator (the “Regulator”),
had issued a “warning notice” to CMUK and five other Chemtura affiliates, including Chemtura, stating their intent
to request authority to issue a “financial support direction” against each of them for the support of the benefit obligations
under the UK Pension Plan, potentially up to the amount of the funding deficit. Definitive agreements have now been entered into
between CMUK and the UK Pension Trustees over the terms of a “recovery plan” to reduce the underfunded deficit in the
UK Pension Plan and the Regulator has withdrawn the “warning notice” issued against CMUK and the five other Chemtura
affiliates, including Chemtura. The definitive agreements provide, among other things, for CMUK to make cash contributions of £60
million (approximately $95 million) in just over a three year period starting with an initial contribution of £30 million
($49 million) that we made in the second quarter of 2011. The agreements also provide for the granting of both a security interest
and a guarantee to support certain of the liabilities under this pension plan.
 
There is also an evaluation being
undertaken as to whether additional benefit obligations exist in connection with the equalization of certain benefits under the
UK Pension Plan that occurred in the early 1990s. Based on the results of the evaluation to date, $8 million of expense has been
recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011, which may be subject to adjustment as further information is gathered as part of the evaluation.
Upon completion of the evaluation and the finalization of the liability with respect to additional benefit obligations, additional
cash contributions to the UK Pension Plan may be required starting in 2013
 
Environmental Liabilities
 
We are involved in environmental matters of various types in a number
of jurisdictions. A number of such matters involve claims for material amounts of damages and relate to or allege environmental
liabilities, including clean up costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites and natural resource damages.
 
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”), and comparable state statutes impose strict liability upon various classes of persons
with respect to the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of waste disposal sites. Such persons are typically
referred to as “Potentially Responsible Parties” or PRPs. Chemtura and several of our subsidiaries have been identified
by federal, state or local governmental agencies or by other PRPs, as a PRP at various locations in the United States. Because
in certain circumstances these laws have been construed to authorize the imposition of joint and several liability, the Environmental
Protection Agency (“EPA”) and comparable state agencies could seek to recover all costs involving a waste disposal
site from any one of the PRPs for such site, including Chemtura, despite the involvement of other PRPs. In many cases, we are one
of a large number of PRPs with respect to a site. In a few instances, we are the sole or one of only a handful of PRPs performing
investigation and remediation. Where other financially responsible PRPs are involved, we expect that any ultimate liability resulting
from such matters will be apportioned between us and such other parties. In addition, we are involved with environmental remediation
and compliance activities at some of our current and former sites in the United States and abroad. As described below, certain
environmental liabilities against us have been discharged or settled during the Chapter 11 cases.
 
Discharged and/or Settled Environmental Liabilities
 
As part of the Chapter 11 cases, under the Plan, the Debtors retained
responsibility for environmental cleanup liabilities relating to currently owned or operated sites (i.e. sites that were part of
the Debtors’ estates) and, with certain exceptions, discharged or settled liabilities relating to formerly owned or operated
sites (i.e. sites that were no longer part of the Debtors’ estates) and third-party sites (i.e. sites that never were part
of the Debtors’ estates).
 

97
 

 
As of December 31, 2011, we had obtained Bankruptcy Court approval
of environmental settlements with the United States Department of Justice, the EPA and the Connecticut Commissioner of Environmental
Protection, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the North Carolina
Division of Waste Management, the New York Environmental Protection and Spill Compensation Fund, the Georgia Department of Natural
Resources, the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency, the State of New York and the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, the Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Protection, the California Department of Toxic Substances Control, and the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection, the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Santa Ana Region, the California Regional Water Quality Control
Board, San Francisco Bay Region, and the State Water Resources Board for the State of California. The settlement with the EPA resolved
alleged violations of the Clean Air Act, CERCLA, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, and the Clean Water Act,
with respect to our Conyers facility, which we had previously reported in our periodic reports.
 
All of the above-described settlements have been paid from the Debtors’
estates or the Environmental Reserve established under the Plan. As of December 31, 2011, $36 million has been paid on account
of such environmental settlements. As a result of these settlements, we have voluntarily dismissed an adversary proceeding that
the Debtors initiated during the Chapter 11 cases against the United States and various States seeking a ruling from the Bankruptcy
Court that all of the Debtors’ liabilities with respect to formerly owned or operated sites and third-party sites are dischargeable
claims in the Chapter 11 cases.
 
In view of the offers made to settle environmental liabilities and
the settlements that have been reached with respect to environmental liabilities, estimates relating to environmental liabilities
with respect to formerly owned or operated sites and third-party sites are now classified as accrued expenses and other liabilities
in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
Environmental Liabilities that Have Not Been
Discharged or Settled
 
Each quarter, we evaluate and review estimates for future remediation
and other costs to determine appropriate environmental reserve amounts. For each site where the cost of remediation is probable
and reasonably estimable, we determine the specific measures that are believed to be required to remediate the site, the estimated
total cost to carry out the remediation plan, the portion of the total remediation costs to be borne by us and the anticipated
time frame over which payments toward the remediation plan will occur. At sites where we expect to incur ongoing operation and
maintenance expenditures, we accrue on an undiscounted basis for a period of generally 10 years those costs which we believe are
probable and reasonably estimable.
 
On June 6, 2011, our subsidiary Great Lakes Chemical Corporation,
received a proposed Consent Administrative Order (“CAO”) from the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality alleging
violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act in conjunction with its facility located in El Dorado, Arkansas. The proposed
CAO included a civil penalty. While we believe that a mutually acceptable settlement amount will be negotiated with the agency,
a reasonable estimate of the settlement amount cannot be made at this time. In any event, the ultimate settlement with the agency
will not have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
 

98
 

 
The total amount accrued for environmental liabilities as of December
31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, was $88 million and $119 million (which includes $27 million related to disputed claims), respectively.
At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, $18 million and $43 million, respectively, of these environmental liabilities were
reflected as accrued expenses and $70 million and $76 million, respectively, were reflected as other liabilities in our Consolidated
Balance Sheets. We estimate that ongoing environmental liabilities could range up to $107 million at December 31, 2011. Our accruals
for environmental liabilities include estimates for determinable clean-up costs. We recorded a pre-tax charge of $6 million in
2011, $54 million in 2010, and $20 million in 2009, to increase our environmental liabilities and made payments of $37 million
in 2011 (which included $27 million related to pre-petition liabilities) and $52 million in 2010 (which included $42 million related
to pre-petition liabilities) for clean-up costs, which reduced our environmental liabilities. At certain sites, we have contractual
agreements with certain other parties to share remediation costs. We have a receivable of $10 million at December 31, 2011 and
$11 million at December 31, 2010 to reflect probable recoveries. At a number of these sites, the extent of contamination has not
yet been fully investigated or the final scope of remediation is not yet determinable. We intend to assert all meritorious legal
defenses and will pursue other equitable factors that are available with respect to these matters. However, the final cost of clean-up
at these sites could exceed our present estimates, and could have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect
on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our estimates for environmental remediation liabilities may change
in the future should additional sites be identified, further remediation measures be required or undertaken, current laws and regulations
be modified or additional environmental laws and regulations be enacted, and as negotiations with respect to certain sites continue
or as certain liabilities relating to such sites are resolved as part of the Chapter 11 cases.
 
Other
 
We are routinely subject to other civil claims, litigation and arbitration,
and regulatory investigations, arising in the ordinary course of our business, as well as in respect of our divested businesses.
Some of these claims and litigations relate to product liability claims, including claims related to our current and historic products
and asbestos-related claims concerning premises and historic products of our corporate affiliates and predecessors. We believe
the claims relating to the period before the filing of the Chapter 11 cases are subject to discharge pursuant to the Plan and will
be satisfied, to the extent they were timely filed in the Chapter 11 cases and allowed by the Bankruptcy Court, solely from the
Disputed Claims Reserve. Further, we believe that we have strong defenses to these claims. These claims have not had a material
impact on us to date and we believe the likelihood that a future material adverse outcome will result from these claims is remote.
However, we cannot be certain that an adverse outcome of one or more of these claims, to the extent not discharged in the Chapter
11 cases, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
 
Internal Review of Customer Incentive, Commission and Promotional
Payment Practices
 
Our previously disclosed review of various customer incentive, commission
and promotional payment practices of the Chemtura AgroSolutions segment in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region
(the “EMEA Region”), was completed in 2010.  The review was conducted under the oversight of the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors and with the assistance of outside counsel and forensic accounting consultants.  As disclosed
previously, the review found evidence of various suspicious payments made to persons in certain Central Asian countries and of
activity intended to conceal the nature of those payments. The amounts of these payments were reflected in our books and records
but were not recorded appropriately or in a transparent manner, including payments that were redirected to persons other than the
customer, distributor or agent in the particular transaction. None of these payments were subject to adequate internal control.
We have strengthened our worldwide internal controls relating to customer incentives and sales agent commissions and enhanced our
global policy prohibiting improper payments, which contemplates, among other things, that we monitor our international operations.
Such monitoring may require that we investigate allegations of possible improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which
such transactions are recorded. We have severed our relationship with all of the sales agents and the employees responsible for
the suspicious payments. We are currently in discussions with the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding a possible resolution
of this matter. We cannot reasonably estimate the nature or amount of monetary or other sanctions, if any, that might be imposed
as a result of the review. We have concluded that there is no matter connected with the review that would lead to a material change
to the financial statements presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Guarantees
 
In addition to the letters of credit of $15 million and $12 million
outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, we have guarantees that have been provided to various financial institutions.
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had $10 million and $6 million, respectively. The letters of credit and guarantees were primarily
related to insurance obligations, environmental obligations, banking credit facilities, vendor deposits and European value added
tax (“VAT”) obligations.
 

99
 

 
We have applied the disclosure provisions of ASC Topic 460, Guarantees
(“ASC 460”), to our agreements that contain guarantee or indemnification clauses. We are a party to several agreements
pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify a third party with respect to certain loan obligations of joint venture companies
in which we have an equity interest. These obligations arose to provide initial financing for a joint venture start-up, fund an
acquisition and/or provide project capital. Such obligations mature through August 2016. In the event that any of the joint venture
companies were to default on these loan obligations, we would indemnify the other party up to its proportionate share of the obligation
based upon its ownership interest in the joint venture. At December 31, 2011, the maximum potential future principal and interest
payments due under these guarantees were $8 million. At December 31, 2010, the maximum potential future payments due under these
guarantees were $15 million in principal and $1 million in interest. In accordance with ASC 460, we have accrued $1 million and
$2 million in reserves, which represents the probability weighted fair value of these guarantees at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The reserve has been included in long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011 and
2010 with an offset to the investment included in other assets.
 
We also have a customer guarantee, in which we have contingently
guaranteed certain debt obligations of one of our customers. The amount of this guarantee was $2 million at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010. Based on past experience and on the underlying circumstances, we do not expect to have to perform under this
guarantee.
 
At December 31 2011, unconditional purchase obligations primarily
for commitments to purchase raw materials and tolling arrangements with outside vendors, amounted to $2 million (2012), $2 million
(2013), $1 million (2014), $1 million (2015) and $6 million in the aggregate.
 
In addition, the Company has a financing agreement with a bank in
Brazil for certain customers under which the Company receives funds from the bank at invoice date, and in turn, the customer agrees
to pay the bank on the due date.  The Company provides a full recourse guarantee to the bank in the event of customer non-payment.
 
In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements
under which we may agree to indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they
perform on our behalf or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for
example, litigation, claims or environmental matters relating to our past performance. For any losses that we believe are probable
and estimable, we have accrued for such amounts in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
20)     BUSINESS
SEGMENTS
 
We evaluate a segment’s performance based on several factors,
of which the primary factor is operating income (loss). In computing operating income (loss) by segment, the following items have
not been deducted: (1) general corporate expense; (2) amortization; (3) facility closures, severance and related costs; (4) antitrust
costs; (5) change in useful life of property, plant & equipment; (6) gain (loss) on sale of business; (7) changes in estimates
related to expected allowable claims; and (8) impairment charges. Pursuant to ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting (“ASC
280”), these items have been excluded from our presentation of segment operating income (loss) because they are not reported
to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of allocating resources among reporting segments or assessing segment performance.
 
Industrial
Performance Products 
 
Industrial Performance Products are engineered solutions for our
customers’ specialty chemical needs. Industrial Performance Products include petroleum additives that provide detergency,
friction modification and corrosion protection in automotive lubricants, greases, refrigeration and turbine lubricants; castable
urethane prepolymers engineered to provide superior abrasion resistance and durability in many industrial and recreational applications;
polyurethane dispersions and urethane prepolymers used in various types of coatings such as clear floor finishes, high-gloss paints
and textiles treatments; and antioxidants that improve the durability and longevity of plastics used in food packaging, consumer
durables, automotive components and electrical components. These products are sold directly to manufacturers and through distribution
channels.
 
Industrial Engineered Products
 
Industrial Engineered Products are chemical additives designed to
improve the performance of polymers in their end-use applications. Industrial Engineered Products include brominated performance
products, flame retardants, fumigants and organometallics. The products are sold across the entire value chain ranging from direct
sales to monomer producers, polymer manufacturers, compounders and fabricators, fine chemical manufacturers and oilfield service
companies to industry distributors.
 

100
 

 
Consumer Products 
 
Consumer Products are performance chemicals that are sold to consumers
for in-home and outdoor use. Consumer Products include a variety of branded recreational water purification products sold through
local dealers and large retailers to assist consumers in the maintenance of their pools and spas and branded cleaners and degreasers
sold primarily through mass merchants to consumers for home cleaning.
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 
Chemtura AgroSolutions develops, supplies, registers and sells agricultural
chemicals formulated for specific crops in various geographic regions for the purpose of enhancing quality and improving yields.
The business focuses on specific target markets in six major product lines: seed treatments, fungicides, miticides, insecticides,
growth regulators and herbicides. These products are sold directly to growers and to major distributors in the agricultural sector.
 
General Corporate Expense and Other Charges
 
General corporate expense includes costs and expenses that are of
a general corporate nature or managed on a corporate basis. These costs (net of allocations to the business segments) primarily
represent corporate stewardship and administration activities together with costs associated with legacy activities and intangible
asset amortization. Functional costs are allocated between the business segments and general corporate expense. Accelerated depreciation
relates to certain assets affected by our restructuring programs. Facility closures, severance and related costs are primarily
for severance costs related to our cost savings initiatives. The antitrust costs are primarily for settlements and legal costs
associated with antitrust investigations and related civil lawsuits. The gain on sale of business relates to the sale of our 50%
interest in Tetrabrom Technologies Ltd. in 2011 and the sale of the natural sodium sulfonates and oxidized petrolatum product lines
in 2010. Impairment charges primarily relate to the impairment of intangibles assets and property, plant and equipment related
to our El Dorado, Arkansas facility in 2011, the impairment of goodwill of the Chemtura AgroSolutions segment in 2010, and the
impairment of goodwill of the Consumer Products segment in 2009. Change in estimates related to expected allowable claims relates
to adjustments to liabilities subject to compromise (primarily legal and environmental reserves) as a result of the proofs of claim
evaluation process.
 
Corporate assets are principally cash and cash equivalents, intangible
assets (including goodwill) and other assets (including deferred tax assets) maintained for general corporate purposes
 
A summary of business data for our reportable segments for the years
2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows:
 
Information by Business Segment
(In millions)
 


Net Sales  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Industrial Performance Products 
$1,358  
$1,223  
$999 

Industrial Engineered Products 
 869  
 728  
 512 

Consumer Products 
 422  
 458  
 457 

Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 376  
 351  
 332 

Net Sales 
$3,025  
$2,760  
$2,300 

 

101
 

 


Operating Income (Loss)  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Industrial Performance Products 
$137  
$119  
$91 

Industrial Engineered Products 
 130  
 25  
 3 

Consumer Products 
 26  
 67  
 63 

Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 30  
 21  
 42 

Segment Operating Income 
 323  
 232  
 199 

  
    
    
   

General corporate expense 
 (75) 
 (65) 
 (68)

Amortization 
 (38) 
 (37) 
 (38)

Change in useful life of property, plant and equipment 
 -  
 (1) 
 - 

Facility closures, severance and related costs 
 (3) 
 (1) 
 (3)

Antitrust costs 
 -  
 -  
 (10)

Gain on sale of business 
 27  
 2  
 - 

Impairment charges 
 (4) 
 (57) 
 (39)

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 (3) 
 (35) 
 (73)

Total Operating Income (Loss) 
 227  
 38  
 (32)

  
    
    
   

Interest expense 
 (63) 
 (191) 
 (70)

Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
 -  
 (88) 
 - 

Other expense, net 
 -  
 (6) 
 (17)

Reorganization items, net 
 (19) 
 (303) 
 (97)

  
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 
$145  
$(550) 
$(216)

 


Depreciation and Amortization  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Industrial Performance Products 
$38  
$35  
$41 

Industrial Engineered Products 
 42  
 79  
 57 

Consumer Products 
 9  
 11  
 13 

Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 10  
 9  
 8 

  
 99  
 134  
 119 

Corporate 
 41  
 41  
 43 

Total continuing operations 
 140  
 175  
 162 

Discontinued operations 
 -  
 -  
 11 

  
$140  
$175  
$173 

 


Equity Income (Loss)  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Industrial Performance Products 
$3  
$2  
$1 

Industrial Engineered Products 
 2  
 2  
 (1)

Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 (2) 
 -  
 - 

  
$3  
$4  
$- 

 


Segment Assets  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Industrial Performance Products 
$768  
$778  
$717 

Industrial Engineered Products 
 624  
 532  
 531 

Consumer Products 
 226  
 259  
 272 

Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 326  
 343  
 311 

  
 1,944  
 1,912  
 1,831 

Discontinued operations 
 -  
 -  
 85 

Corporate 
 911  
 1,001  
 1,202 

  
$2,855  
$2,913  
$3,118 

 

102
 

 


Capital Expenditures  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Industrial Performance Products 
$41  
$37  
$16 

Industrial Engineered Products 
 98  
 58  
 16 

Consumer Products 
 6  
 10  
 4 

Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 6  
 11  
 8 

  
 151  
 116  
 44 

Corporate 
 3  
 8  
 9 

Total continuing operations 
 154  
 124  
 53 

Discontinued operations 
 -  
 -  
 3 

  
$154  
$124  
$56 

 


Equity Method Investments  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Industrial Performance Products 
$23  
$21  
$19 

Industrial Engineered Products 
 6  
 9  
 8 

Chemtura AgroSolutions 
 28  
 2  
 2 

  
$57  
$32  
$29 

 


Information by Geographic Area 
   
   
  

(In millions) 
Net sales (based on location of customer) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

United States 
$1,290  
$1,236  
$1,088 

Canada 
 60  
 49  
 42 

Latin America 
 161  
 143  
 126 

Europe/Africa 
 923  
 813  
 703 

Asia/Pacific 
 591  
 519  
 341 

  
$3,025  
$2,760  
$2,300 

  


Property, Plant and Equipment  
2011  
2010  
2009 

United States 
$431  
$391  
$422 

Canada 
 68  
 68  
 59 

Latin America 
 15  
 18  
 16 

Europe/Africa 
 205  
 203  
 219 

Asia/Pacific 
 33  
 36  
 34 

  
$752  
$716  
$750 

 

103
 

 
21)     GUARANTOR
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL DATA
 
Our
obligations under the Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on
a senior unsecured basis, jointly and severally, by each current and future domestic restricted subsidiary, other than excluded
subsidiaries that guarantee any indebtedness of Chemtura or our restricted subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries that do not guarantee
the Senior Notes are referred to as the “Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries.” The Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial
Data presented below presents the statements of operations, balance sheets and statements of cash flow data: (i) for Chemtura Corporation
(the “Parent Company”), the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis (which
is derived from Chemtura historical reported financial information); (ii) for the Parent Company, alone (accounting for our Guarantor
Subsidiaries and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries on an equity basis under which the investments are recorded by each entity owning
a portion of another entity at cost, adjusted for the applicable share of the subsidiary's cumulative results of operations, capital
contributions and distributions, and other equity changes); (iii) for the Guarantor Subsidiaries alone; and (iv) for the Non-Guarantor
Subsidiaries alone.
 
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
Year ended December 31, 2011
 (In
millions)
 


  
   
   
   
   
Non- 

  
   
   
Parent  
Guarantor  
Guarantor 

  
Consolidated  
Eliminations  
Company  
Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Net sales 
$3,025  
$(1,847) 
$1,669  
$743  
$2,460 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Cost of goods sold 
 2,296  
 (1,847) 
 1,368  
 611  
 2,164 

Selling, general and administrative 
 339  
 -  
 133  
 52  
 154 

Depreciation and amortization 
 140  
 -  
 36  
 50  
 54 

Research and development 
 43  
 -  
 18  
 7  
 18 

Facility closures, severance and related costs 
 3  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 2 

Gain on sale of business 
 (27) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (27)

Impairment charges 
 4  
 -  
 1  
 1  
 2 

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 3  
 -  
 3  
 -  
 - 

Equity (income) loss 
 (3) 
 -  
 1  
 -  
 (4)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Operating income 
 227  
 -  
 108  
 22  
 97 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Interest expense 
 (63) 
 -  
 (72) 
 1  
 8 

Other (expense) income, net 
 -  
 -  
 (10) 
 4  
 6 

Reorganization items, net 
 (19) 
 -  
 (19) 
 -  
 - 

Equity in net earnings (loss) of subsidiaries from continuing operations 
 -  
 (114) 
 116  
 (2) 
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 
 145  
 (114) 
 123  
 25  
 111 

Income tax expense 
 (25) 
 -  
 (4) 
 -  
 (21)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net earnings (loss) 
 120  
 (114) 
 119  
 25  
 90 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Less: net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 
 (1) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (1)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net earnings (loss) attributable to Chemtura 
$119  
$(114) 
$119  
$25  
$89 

 

104
 

 

 

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
As of December 31, 2011 
(In millions)
 


  
   
   
   
   
Non- 

  
   
   
Parent  
Guarantor  
Guarantor 

  
Consolidated  
Eliminations  
Company  
Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries 

ASSETS 
    
    
    
    
   

Current assets 
$1,321  
$-  
$372  
$204  
$745 

Intercompany receivables 
 -  
 (7,846) 
 2,727  
 2,230  
 2,889 

Investment in subsidiaries 
 -  
 (14,617) 
 2,011  
 1,734  
 10,872 

Property, plant and equipment 
 752  
 -  
 160  
 271  
 321 

Goodwill 
 174  
 -  
 92  
 3  
 79 

Other assets 
 608  
 -  
 226  
 185  
 197 

Total assets 
$2,855  
$(22,463) 
$5,588  
$4,627  
$15,103 

  
    
    
    
    
   

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
    
    
    
    
   

Current liabilities 
$390  
$-  
$134  
$79  
$177 

Intercompany payables 
 -  
 (7,846) 
 3,201  
 2,491  
 2,154 

Long-term debt 
 748  
 -  
 747  
 -  
 1 

Other long-term liabilities 
 671  
 -  
 460  
 60  
 151 

Total liabilities 
 1,809  
 (7,846) 
 4,542  
 2,630  
 2,483 

Stockholders' equity 
 1,046  
 (14,617) 
 1,046  
 1,997  
 12,620 

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity 
$2,855  
$(22,463) 
$5,588  
$4,627  
$15,103 

  
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash
Flows
Year ended December 31, 2011 
(In millions)
 


  
   
   
   
   
Non- 

  
   
   
Parent  
Guarantor  
Guarantor 

  
Consolidated  
Eliminations  
Company  
Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries 

Increase (decrease) to cash 
    
    
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
    
    
   

Net earnings 
$120  
$(114) 
$119  
$25  
$90 

Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operations: 
    
    
    
    
   

Gain on sale of business 
 (27) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (27)

Impairment charges 
 4  
 -  
 1  
 1  
 2 

Depreciation and amortization 
 140  
 -  
 36  
 50  
 54 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 26  
 -  
 26  
 -  
 - 

Reorganization items, net 
 2  
 -  
 2  
 -  
 - 

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 3  
 -  
 3  
 -  
 - 

Equity income 
 (3) 
 114  
 (115) 
 2  
 (4)

Changes in assets and liabilities, net 
 (83) 
 -  
 (41) 
 5  
 (47)

Net cash provided by operations 
 182  
 -  
 31  
 83  
 68 

  
    
    
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
    
    
   

Net proceeds from divestments 
 8  
 -  
 8  
 -  
 - 

Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired 
 (35) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (35)

Capital expenditures 
 (154) 
 -  
 (24) 
 (83) 
 (47)

Net cash used in investing activities 
 (181) 
 -  
 (16) 
 (83) 
 (82)

  
    
    
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
    
    
   

Payments on short term borrowings, net 
 3  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3 

Common shares acquired 
 (22) 
 -  
 (22) 
 -  
 - 

Proceeds from the exercise of stock options 
 1  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 - 

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities 
 (18) 
 -  
 (21) 
 -  
 3 

  
    
    
    
    
   

CASH 
    
    
    
    
   

Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 
 (4) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (4)

Change in cash and cash equivalents 
 (21) 
 -  
 (6) 
 -  
 (15)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 201  
 -  
$41  
$-  
$160 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$180  
$-  
$35  
$-  
$145 

 

105
 

 Condensed Consolidating Statement
of Operations
Year ended December 31, 2010 
(In millions)


  
   
   
   
   
Non- 

  
   
   
Parent  
Guarantor  
Guarantor 

  
Consolidated  
Eliminations  
Company  
Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Net sales 
$2,760  
$(1,710) 
$1,478  
$794  
$2,198 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Cost of goods sold 
 2,103  
 (1,710) 
 1,312  
 583  
 1,918 

Selling, general and administrative 
 315  
 -  
 137  
 51  
 127 

Depreciation and amortization 
 175  
 -  
 37  
 88  
 50 

Research and development 
 42  
 -  
 17  
 7  
 18 

Facility closures, severance and related costs 
 1  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1 

Gain on sale of business 
 (2) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (2)

Impairment charges 
 57  
 -  
 54  
 -  
 3 

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 35  
 -  
 15  
 (1) 
 21 

Equity income 
 (4) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (4)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Operating income (loss) 
 38  
 -  
 (94) 
 66  
 66 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Interest expense 
 (191) 
 -  
 (165) 
 (35) 
 9 

Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
 (88) 
 -  
 (88) 
 -  
 - 

Other (expense) income, net 
 (6) 
 -  
 (41) 
 37  
 (2)

Reorganization items, net 
 (303) 
 -  
 (300) 
 (2) 
 (1)

Equity in net earnings of subsidiaries from continuing operations 
 -  
 (135) 
 134  
 1  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
   

(Loss) earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 
 (550) 
 (135) 
 (554) 
 67  
 72 

Income tax expense 
 (22) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (22)

  
    
    
    
    
   

(Loss) earnings from continuing operations 
 (572) 
 (135) 
 (554) 
 67  
 50 

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 (1) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (1)

(Loss) gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 (12) 
 -  
 (32) 
 -  
 20 

  
    
   
    
    
   

Net (loss) earnings 
 (585) 
 (135) 
 (586) 
 67  
 69 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Less: net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 
 (1) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (1)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net (loss) earnings attributable to Chemtura 
$(586) 
$(135) 
$(586) 
$67  
$68 

 
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
As of December 31, 2010 
(In millions) 


  
   
   
   
   
Non- 

  
   
   
Parent  
Guarantor  
Guarantor 

  
Consolidated  
Eliminations  
Company  
Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries 

ASSETS 
    
    
    
    
   

Current assets 
$1,421  
$-  
$450  
$201  
$770 

Intercompany receivables 
 -  
 (7,912) 
 2,153  
 2,259  
 3,500 

Investment in subsidiaries 
 -  
 (12,700) 
 2,734  
 1,254  
 8,712 

Property, plant and equipment 
 716  
 -  
 162  
 230  
 324 

Goodwill 
 175  
 -  
 93  
 3  
 79 

Other assets 
 601  
 -  
 134  
 195  
 272 

Total assets 
$2,913  
$(20,612) 
$5,726  
$4,142  
$13,657 

  
    
    
    
    
   

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
    
    
    
    
   

Current liabilities 
$489  
$-  
$244  
$67  
$178 

Intercompany payables 
 -  
 (7,912) 
 3,427  
 1,988  
 2,497 

Long-term debt 
 748  
 -  
 746  
 -  
 2 

Other long-term liabilities 
 705  
 -  
 338  
 61  
 306 

Total liabilities 
 1,942  
 (7,912) 
 4,755  
 2,116  
 2,983 

Stockholders' equity 
 971  
 (12,700) 
 971  
 2,026  
 10,674 

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity 
$2,913  
$(20,612) 
$5,726  
$4,142  
$13,657 



106
 


Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended December 31, 2010 
(In millions) 


  
   
   
   
   
Non- 

  
   
   
Parent  
Guarantor  
Guarantor 

  
Consolidated  
Eliminations  
Company  
Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries 

Increase (decrease) to cash 
   
   
   
   
  

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
    
    
   

Net (loss) earnings 
$(585) 
$(135) 
$(586) 
$67  
$69 

Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) earnings to net cash (used in) provided by operations: 
    
    
    
    
   

Gain on sale of business 
 (2) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (2)

Loss (gain) on sale of discontinued operations 
 12  
 -  
 32  
 -  
 (20)

Impairment charges 
 60  
 -  
 55  
 -  
 5 

Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
 88  
 -  
 88  
 -  
 - 

Depreciation and amortization 
 175  
 -  
 37  
 88  
 50 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 10  
 -  
 10  
 -  
 - 

Reorganization items, net 
 186  
 -  
 186  
 -  
 - 

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 35  
 -  
 15  
 (1) 
 21 

Non-cash contractual post-petition interest expense 
 113  
 -  
 113  
 -  
 - 

Equity income 
 (4) 
 135  
 (134) 
 (1) 
 (4)

Changes in assets and liabilities, net 
 (292) 
 -  
 (168) 
 (60) 
 (64)

Net cash (used in) provided by operations 
 (204) 
 -  
 (352) 
 93  
 55 

  
    
    
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
    
    
   

Net proceeds from divestments 
 43  
 -  
 43  
 -  
 - 

Capital expenditures 
 (124) 
 -  
 (27) 
 (49) 
 (48)

Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities 
 (81) 
 -  
 16  
 (49) 
 (48)

  
    
    
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
    
    
   

Proceeds from Senior Notes 
 452  
 -  
 452  
 -  
 - 

Proceeds fromTerm Loan 
 292  
 -  
 292  
 -  
 - 

Proceeds from Amended DIP Credit Facility 
 299  
 -  
 299  
 -  
 - 

Payments on Amended DIP Credit Facility 
 (300) 
 -  
 (300) 
 -  
 - 

Payments on DIP Credit Facility, net 
 (250) 
 -  
 (250) 
 -  
 - 

Repayments of 6.875% Notes due 2016 
 (75) 
 -  
 (75) 
 -  
 - 

Repayments of 6.875% Debentures due 2026 
 (19) 
 -  
 (19) 
 -  
 - 

Repayments of 7% Notes due 2009 
 (44) 
 -  
 -  
 (44) 
 - 

Payments on 2007 Credit Facility, net 
 (54) 
 -  
 (54) 
 -  
 - 

Payments for debt issuance and refinancing costs 
 (40) 
 -  
 (40) 
 -  
 - 

Payments for make-whole and no-call premiums 
 (10) 
 -  
 (10) 
 -  
 - 

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 
 251  
 -  
 295  
 (44) 
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
   

CASH 
    
    
    
   
   

Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 
 (1) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (1)

Change in cash and cash equivalents 
 (35) 
 -  
 (41) 
 -  
 6 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 236  
 -  
 82  
 -  
 154 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$201  
$-  
$41  
$-  
$160 



107
 


Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
Year ended December 31, 2009 
(In millions)
 


  
   
   
   
   
Non- 

  
   
   
Parent  
Guarantor  
Guarantor 

  
Consolidated  
Eliminations  
Company  
Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Net sales 
$2,300  
$(1,430) 
$1,161  
$703  
$1,866 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Cost of goods sold 
 1,721  
 (1,430) 
 990  
 522  
 1,639 

Selling, general and administrative 
 289  
 -  
 124  
 57  
 108 

Depreciation and amortization 
 162  
 -  
 39  
 65  
 58 

Research and development 
 35  
 -  
 13  
 7  
 15 

Facility closures, severance and related costs 
 3  
 -  
 (1) 
 1  
 3 

Antitrust costs 
 10  
 -  
 9  
 -  
 1 

Impairment charges 
 39  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 39 

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 73  
 -  
 71  
 2  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Operating (loss) income 
 (32) 
 -  
 (84) 
 49  
 3 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Interest expense 
 (70) 
 -  
 (76) 
 (2) 
 8 

Other (expense) income, net 
 (17) 
 -  
 (20) 
 1  
 2 

Reorganization items, net 
 (97) 
 -  
 (95) 
 (1) 
 (1)

Equity in net loss of subsidiaries from continuing operations 
 -  
 (5) 
 5  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
   

(Loss) earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 
 (216) 
 (5) 
 (270) 
 47  
 12 

Income tax (expense) benefit 
 (10) 
 -  
 26  
 (1) 
 (35)

  
    
    
    
    
   

(Loss) earnings from continuing operations 
 (226) 
 (5) 
 (244) 
 46  
 (23)

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 (63) 
 -  
 (49) 
 (1) 
 (13)

Loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 (3) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (3)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net (loss) earnings 
 (292) 
 (5) 
 (293) 
 45  
 (39)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Less: net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 
 (1) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (1)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net (loss) earnings attributable to Chemtura 
$(293) 
$(5) 
$(293) 
$45  
$(40)

 

108
 

 
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash
Flows
Year ended December 31, 2009 
(In millions)
 


  
   
   
   
   
Non- 

  
   
   
Parent  
Guarantor  
Guarantor 

  
Consolidated  
Eliminations  
Company  
Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries 

Increase (decrease) to cash 
    
    
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
    
    
   

Net (loss) earnings 
$(292) 
$(5) 
$(293) 
$45  
$(39)

Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) earnings to net cash provided by (used in) operations: 
    
    
    
    
   

Loss on sale of discontinued operations 
 3  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3 

Impairment charges 
 104  
 -  
 53  
 -  
 51 

Depreciation and amortization 
 173  
 -  
 48  
 65  
 60 

Stock-based compensation expense 
 3  
 -  
 3  
 -  
 - 

Reorganization items, net 
 35  
 -  
 35  
 -  
 - 

Changes in estimates related to expected allowable claims 
 73  
 -  
 71  
 2  
 - 

Equity loss 
 -  
 5  
 (5) 
 -  
 - 

Changes in assets and liabilities, net 
 (50) 
 -  
 (15) 
 (88) 
 53 

Net cash provided by (used in) operations 
 49  
 -  
 (103) 
 24  
 128 

  
    
    
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
    
    
   

Net proceeds from divestments 
 3  
 -  
 3  
 -  
 - 

Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired 
 (5) 
 -  
 (5) 
 -  
 - 

Capital expenditures 
 (56) 
 -  
 (17) 
 (17) 
 (22)

Net cash used in investing activities 
 (58) 
 -  
 (19) 
 (17) 
 (22)

  
    
    
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
    
    
   

Proceeds from DIP Credit Facility, net 
 250  
 -  
 250  
 -  
 - 

Payments on 2007 Credit Facility, net 
 (28) 
 -  
 (28) 
 -  
 - 

Proceeds from long term borrowings 
 1  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1 

Payments on long term borrowings 
 (18) 
 -  
 (9) 
 (9) 
 - 

Payments on short term borrowings, net 
 (2) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (2)

Payments for debt issuance and refinancing costs 
 (30) 
 -  
 (30) 
 -  
 - 

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 
 173  
 -  
 183  
 (9) 
 (1)

  
    
    
    
    
   

CASH 
    
    
    
    
   

Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 
 4  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 4 

Change in cash and cash equivalents 
 168  
 -  
 61  
 (2) 
 109 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 68  
 -  
 21  
 2  
 45 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$236  
$-  
$82  
$-  
$154 

 

109
 

 

22)SUMMARIZED UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
 
SUMMARIZED UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
 


(In millions, except per share data) 
2011 

  
First  
Second  
Third  
Fourth 

Net sales 
$699  
$876  
$773  
$677 

Gross profit 
$161  
$224  
$174  
$170 

  
    
    
    
   

AMOUNTS ATTRIBUTABLE TO CHEMTURA COMMON SHAREHOLDERS: 
    
    
    
   

Net earnings attributable to Chemtura 
$7(a) 
$69(b) 
$9(c) 
$34(d)

  
    
    
    
   

EARNINGS PER SHARE - BASIC AND DILUTED - ATTRIBUTABLE TO CHEMTURA (i): 
    
    
    
   

Net earnings attributable to Chemtura 
$0.07  
$0.69  
$0.09  
$0.34 

  
    
    
    
   

Basic weighted-average shares outstanding 
 100.1  
 100.3  
 100.3  
 99.6 

  
    
    
    
   

Diluted weighted-average shares outstanding 
 100.1  
 100.5  
 100.5  
 100.1 

  
    
    
    
   

  
 2010 

  
 First  
 Second  
 Third  
 Fourth 

Net sales 
$603  
$767  
$710  
$680 

Gross profit 
$134  
$199  
$160  
$164 

  
    
    
    
   

AMOUNTS ATTRIBUTABLE TO CHEMTURA COMMON SHAREHOLDERS: 
    
    
    
   

(Loss) earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 
$(177)(e) 
$(41)(f) 
$12(g) 
$(367)(h)

(Loss) earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 (2) 
 1  
 -  
 - 

Loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (9) 
 (3) 
 - 

Net (loss) earnings attributable to Chemtura 
$(179) 
$(49) 
$9  
$(367)

  
    
    
    
   

EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE - BASIC AND DILUTED - ATTRIBUTABLE TO CHEMTURA (i): 
    
    
    
   

(Loss) earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 
$(0.73) 
$(0.16) 
$0.05  
$(2.25)

(Loss) earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax 
 (0.01) 
 -  
 -  
 - 

Loss on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax 
 -  
 (0.04) 
 (0.01) 
  -

Net (loss) earnings attributable to Chemtura 
$(0.74) 
$(0.20) 
$0.04  
$(2.25)

  
    
    
    
   

Basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding 
 242.9  
 242.9  
 242.9  
 163.7 

 

(a)The earnings from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2011 included pre-tax charges
for reorganization items, net of $7 million.

(b)The earnings from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2011 included pre-tax charges
reorganization items, net of $6 million.

(c)The earnings from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2011 included pre-tax charges
for reorganization items of $6 million.

(d)The net earnings from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2011 included pre-tax
credit for the gain on the sale of business of $27 million.

(e)The net loss from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2010 included pre-tax charges
for changes in estimates to expected allowable claims of $122 million, reorganization items, net of $21 million and a loss on the
early extinguishment of debt of $13 million.

(f)The net loss from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2010 included pre-tax charges
for contractual interest expense on unsecured pre-petition liabilities of $108 million and reorganization items, net of $26 million.
Also included in the net loss from continuing operations was a pre-tax credit for changes in estimates to expected allowable claims
of $49 million.

(g)The earnings from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2010 included pre-tax charges
for reorganization items of $33 million and contractual interest expense on unsecured pre-petition liabilities of $21 million.
Also included in the earnings from continuing operations were pre-tax credit for changes in estimates to expected allowable claims
of $40 million.

(h)The net loss from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2010 included pre-tax charges
for reorganization items, net of $223 million, a loss on the early extinguishment of debt of $75 million, asset impairments of
$57 million and interest expense on unsecured pre-petition liabilities of $9 million.

(i)The sum of the earnings per common share for the four quarters may not equal the total earnings
per common share for the full year due to quarterly changes in the average number of shares outstanding. Additionally, upon the
effectiveness of our Plan all previously outstanding shares of common stock were cancelled and pursuant to the Plan approximately
96 million shares of New Common Stock were issued. As a result, the average shares outstanding of our New Common Stock may not
be comparable to prior periods.

110
 

  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Chemtura Corporation:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Chemtura Corporation and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2011. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the
financial statement Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.  We also have audited Chemtura Corporation’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible
for these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting (Item 9A(b)).  Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule and an opinion on the Company's internal
control over financial reporting based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements
included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use,
or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Chemtura Corporation and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also in our opinion, Chemtura Corporation maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by COSO. 
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
Stamford, Connecticut
February 27, 2012
 

111
 

 
Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure
 
None.
 
Item 9A: Controls and Procedures
 
(a) Disclosure Controls and Procedures
 
As of December 31, 2011, our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Based on that evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
as of December 31, 2011 were effective.
 
(b) Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting
 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended. Under the supervision of management and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and CFO, we conducted
an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 based on the framework
in Internal Control-Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on our evaluation, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.
 
KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that
audited the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has issued an attestation report, which is included
elsewhere within this Form 10-K, on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
 
(c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting
that occurred in the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting.
 
Item 9B: Other Information
 
Not Applicable.
 

112
 


 
PART III
 
Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
The executive officers of Chemtura are as follows:
 
Craig A. Rogerson, 55, has served as Chairman, President
and Chief Executive Officer of Chemtura since December 2008. Previously, Mr. Rogerson served as President, Chief Executive Officer
and director of Hercules Incorporated from December 2003 until its acquisition by Ashland, Incorporated on November 13, 2008.
 
Chet H. Cross, 53, has served as Executive Vice President
and President Industrial Products since September 2010. From January 2010 to September 2010, Mr. Cross served as Group President
- Engineered Products. From December 2008 to January 2010, Mr. Cross was Vice President of Operations of Ashland Inc’s Ashland
Hercules Water Technologies division. Previously, Mr. Cross served for over 20 years with Hercules Incorporated in a variety of
positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as General Manager of Hercules’ Americas pulp and paper business and
President of Hercules Canada.
 
Stephen C. Forsyth, 56, has served as Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007. Mr. Forsyth was also Treasurer from June 2007 to November 2008. Previously, Mr. Forsyth
served for 26 years with Hexcel Corporation in a variety of executive capacities, most recently as Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer.
 
Billie S. Flaherty, 54, has served as Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary since January 2009. Previously, Ms. Flaherty served as Associate General Counsel for Chemtura, having
joined Chemtura in October 2005. Prior to joining Chemtura, she served as Vice President, Environmental, Health and Safety for
Pitney Bowes Inc.
 
Alan M. Swiech, 53, has served as Senior Vice President,
Human Resources and Support Services since January 2009. Previously Mr. Swiech served as Vice President, Human Resources for Chemtura,
having joined Chemtura in April 2006. Prior to joining Chemtura Mr. Swiech served as Vice President - Administration for Akebono
Corporation NA, and President of AMAK LLC. Before that he served as Vice President, Human Resources for Cambridge Industries Inc.
and various positions of increasing responsibility with United Technologies Corporation.
 
Kevin V. Mahoney, 57, has served as Senior Vice President
and Corporate Controller since October 2006. Previously, Mr. Mahoney spent 18 years with American Express Company, most recently
as Senior Vice President of Corporate Reporting, responsible for financial reporting globally.
 
Dalip Puri, 39, has served as Vice President and Treasurer
since November 2010.  Prior to joining Chemtura, Mr. Puri served as Corporate Treasurer of Hewitt Associates.  Before
that he served for 7 years with Delphi Corporation in various positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as Global Treasury
Director.
 
There is no family relationship between any of such officers, and
there is no arrangement or understanding between any of them and any other person pursuant to which any such officer was selected
as an officer.
 
Information relating to our directors and nominees will be included
under the caption “Election of Directors” in the 2011 Proxy Statement for our Annual Shareholders Meeting to be held
on May 10, 2012 and is incorporated by reference herein. The information required by Items 405, 407(d)(4) and 407(d)(5) of Regulation
S-K will be included under the captions “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” and “Audit
Committee” in the 2011 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated by reference herein.
 

113
 

 
Item 11: Executive Compensation
 
The information required
by Item 402 of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions “Executive Compensation” and “Director Compensation”
in the 2011 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated by reference herein. The information required by Item 407(e)(4) and 407(e)(5)
of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation”
and “Compensation Committee Report” in the 2011 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference
herein.
 
Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
The information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K will be
included under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2011 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated
by reference herein.
 
The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be included
under the caption “Stock Ownership Information” in the 2011 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
Director Independence
 
The information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K will be included
under the caption “Related Person Transactions” in the 2011 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be
included under the caption “Director Independence” in the 2011 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 14: Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 
The information required by this Item will be included under the
caption “Independent Audit Fees for 2011” in the 2011 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated by reference herein.
 

114
 

 
PART IV
 
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 


 
(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this
report:
 

1.Financial statements and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, as required by Item 8 of this form. 
   


(i)Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009;

(ii)Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010;

(iii)Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009;

(iv)Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009;

(v)Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; and

(vi)Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

2.Financial Statement Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, required by Regulation S-X is included herein.

3.The following exhibits are either filed herewith or incorporated herein by reference to the respective reports and registration
statements identified in the parenthetical clause following the description of the exhibit:
  


Exhibit No.
 
Description

2.1
 

Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Chemtura Corporation, et al, dated August
        4, 2010, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s November 4, 2010 Form 8-K).
 

3(i)
 

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Chemtura Corporation
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Chemtura’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the SEC on November
        9, 2010).
 

3(ii)
 

Bylaws of Chemtura Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        3.2 to Chemtura’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the SEC on November 9, 2010).
 

4.1
 

Indenture, dated as of August 27, 2010, among Chemtura Corporation
        and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s August 27, 2010 Form 8-K
        (“August 27, 2010 8-K”)).
 

4.2
 

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 27, 2010 among
        Chemtura Corporation, the subsidiaries named therein and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays
        Capital Inc., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and Goldman, Sachs & Co (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant’s
        August 27, 2010 Form 8-K).
 

4.3
 

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2010, among
        Chemtura Corporation, the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4
        to the Registrant’s November 12, 2010 Form 8-K (“November 12, 2010 8-K”)).
 

4.4
 

Amendment No. 1 to the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility
        Agreement, dated as of March 22, 2011, among Chemtura Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries named therein, as borrowers,
        Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, the other agents party thereto and the Lenders party thereto
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s March 28, 2011 Form 8-K).
 

10.1
 

Letter Agreement, dated March 18, 2009, between the Company and
        Alvarez & Marsal North America, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the March 31, 2009 10-Q).
 

10.2
 

Separation Agreement and General Release, dated as of July 1, 2009,
        between Chemtura Corporation and Robert Wedinger (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s July 9, 2009
        Form 8-K).+
 

10.3
 

2009 Chemtura Corporation Management Incentive Program (incorporated
        by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2009).+
 

10.4
 

Share and Asset Purchase Agreement, dated December 23, 2009, among
        Chemtura Corporation, SK Atlas, LLC and SK Capital Partners II, LP (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s
        December 23, 2009 Form 8-K).
 


115
 

 


Exhibit No.
 
Description

 
 
 

10.5
 

Share and Asset Purchase Agreement between Chemtura Corporation
        and SK Atlas, LLC and SK Capital Partners II, LLP, dated December 15, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.58 to the Registrant’s
        2009 Form 10-K).
 

10.6
 

Share and Asset Purchase Agreement by and among Artek Aterian Holding
        Company, LLC, Aterian Investment Partners Distressed Opportunities, LP, Artek Surfin Chemicals Ltd. and Chemtura Corporation, dated
        February 23, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s February 24, 2010 Form 8-K).
 

10.7
 

Senior Secured Term Facility Credit Agreement, dated as of August
        27, 2010, among Chemtura Corporation, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the other agents party thereto and the Lenders
        party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Registrant’s May 16, 2011 Form 8-K/A).
 

10.8
 

Amendment No. 1 to the Senior Secured Term Facility Credit Agreement,
        dated as of September 27, 2010, among Chemtura Corporation, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the other agents party
        thereto and the Lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s September 30, 2010 Form
        8-K).
 

10.9
 

Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of
        November 9, 2010, among Chemtura Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries named therein, as borrowers, Bank of America, N.A.,
        as administrative agent and collateral agent, the other agents party thereto and the Initial Lenders and other Lenders party thereto
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s May 16, 2011 8-K/A).
 

10.10
 

Guaranty, dated as of November 9, 2010, pursuant to the Senior Secured
        Revolving Facility Credit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s November 12, 2010 8-K).
 

10.11
 

Security Agreement, dated as of November 9, 2010, pursuant to the
        Senior Secured Revolving Facility Credit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant’s November
        12, 2010 8-K).
 

10.12
 

Guaranty, dated as of November 9, 2010, pursuant to the Senior Secured
        Term Facility Credit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Registrant’s November 12, 2010 8-K).
 

10.13
 

Security Agreement, dated as of November 9, 2010, pursuant to the
        Senior Secured Term Facility Credit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Registrant’s November 12,
        2010 8-K).
 

10.14
 

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 9, 2010, between Craig
        Rogerson and Chemtura Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s November 12, 2010 8-K).+
 

10.15
 

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 9, 2010, between Stephen
        Forsyth and Chemtura Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s November 12, 2010 8-K).+
 

10.16
 

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 9, 2010, between Billie
        Flaherty and Chemtura Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s November 12, 2010 8-K).+
 

10.17
 

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 9, 2010, between Chet
        Cross and Chemtura Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Registrant's 2010 Form 10-K). +
 

10.18
 

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 9, 2010, between Alan
        Swiech and Chemtura Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Registrant's 2010 Form 10-K). +
 

10.19
 

Form of Nonqualified Stock Option
        Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s November 12, 2010 8-K). +
 

10.20
 

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant’s November 12, 2010 8-K). +
 

10.21
 

Chemtura Corporation 2010 Long-Term
        Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Chemtura’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the
        Securities and Exchange Commission on November 9, 2010). +
 

10.22
 

Chemtura Corporation EIP Settlement
        Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Chemtura’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the Securities
        and Exchange Commission on November 9, 2010). +
 

10.23
 

Chemtura Corporation Emergence Award
        Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Chemtura’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the Securities
        and Exchange Commission on November 9, 2010). +
 

10.24
 

Chemtura Corporation 2010 Short
        Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the Registrant's 2010 Form 10-K). +

 

116
 

 


Exhibit No.
 
Description

 
 
 

10.25
 
2011 Management Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s March 3, 2011 Form 8-K (“March 3, 2011 8-K”)).+   

 
 
 

10.26
 
Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2011, between Craig Rogerson and Chemtura Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s March 3, 2011 8-K).+

 
 
 

10.27
 
Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2011, between Stephen Forsyth and Chemtura Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s March 3, 2011 8-K).+

 
 
 

10.28
 
Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2011, between Billie Flaherty and Chemtura Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s March 3, 2011 8-K).+

 
 
 

10.29
 
Master Agreement, dated as of October 26, 2011, Relating to Multi-Country Receivables Purchase Facilities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s October 27, 2011 Form 8-K).

 
 
 

10.30
 
Amendment No. 2 to the Senior Secured Revolving Facility Credit Agreement, dated as of December 22, 2011, among Chemtura Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries named therein, as borrowers, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other Lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s December 22, 2011 Form 8-K).

 
 
 

21
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant*  

 
 
 

23
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. *

 
 
 

24
 
Form of Power of Attorney from directors and executive officers of the Registrant authorizing signature of this report (Original on file at principal executive offices of Registrant). *

 
 
 

31.1
 
Certification of Periodic Financial Reports by the Registrant's Chief Executive Officer (Section 302). *  

 
 
 

31.2
 
Certification of Periodic Financial Reports by the Registrant's Chief Financial Officer (Section 302).*  

 
 
 

32.1
 
Certification of Periodic Financial Reports by the Registrant's Chief Executive Officer (Section 906).*  

 
 
 

32.2
 
Certification of Periodic Financial Reports by the Registrant's Chief Financial Officer (Section 906).*

 
 
 

101.INS
 
XBRL Instance Document *

 
 
 

101.SCH
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document *

 
 
 

101.CAL
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document *

 
 
 

101.LAB
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document *

 
 
 

101.PRE
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document *

 
 
 

101.DEF
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document *

 
* Copies of these Exhibits are filed with this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. 
+ This Exhibit is a compensatory plan, contract or arrangement in
which one or more directors or executive officers of the Registrant participate.
 

117
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.
 


 
CHEMTURA CORPORATION

 
(Registrant)

 
 

Date:  February 27, 2012
By:
/s/ Stephen C. Forsyth

 
Stephen C. Forsyth

 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 


Name
Title

Craig A. Rogerson*

Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
        (Principal Executive Officer)
 

Stephen C. Forsyth
By:
/s/ Stephen C. Forsyth

 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 
(Principal Financial Officer)

 
 

Kevin V. Mahoney
By:
/s/ Kevin V. Mahoney

 
Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller (Principal

 
Accounting Officer)

 
 

Jeffrey D. Benjamin*

Director
 

Timothy J. Bernlohr*

Lead Director
 

Anna C. Catalano*

Director
 

Alan S. Cooper*

Director
 

James W. Crownover*

Director
 

Robert A. Dover*

Director
 

Jonathan F. Foster*

Director
 


John K. Wulff*
Director

  



Date:  February 27, 2012
*By:
/s/ Stephen C. Forsyth

 
Stephen C. Forsyth

 
as attorney-in-fact




 

118
 

 
Schedule
II
 
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
(In millions of dollars)
 



  
   
Additions  
   
   
  

  
Balance at  
charged to  
   
   
Balance 

  
beginning  
costs and  
   
   
at end 

  
of year  
expenses  
Deductions  
Other  
of year 

  
    
    
    
    
   

2011: 
    
    
    
    
   

Allowance for doubt ful accounts 
$24  
 7  
 (11)(a) 
 -  
 20 

Reserve for customer rebates 
 20  
 41  
 (41)(b) 
 -  
 20 

  
    
    
    
    
   

2010: 
    
    
    
    
   

Allowance for doubt ful accounts 
$32  
 3  
 (10)(a) 
 (1)(c) 
 24 

Reserve for customer rebates 
 18  
 36  
 (35)(b) 
 1(c) 
 20 

  
    
    
    
    
   

2009: 
    
    
    
    
   

Allowance for doubt ful accounts 
$25  
 5  
 (2)(a) 
 4(c) 
 32 

Reserve for customer rebates 
 19  
 27  
 (30)(b) 
 2(c) 
 18 



 

(a)Primarily represents accounts written off as uncollectible (net of recoveries).
 

(b)Primarily represents payment to the customers.
 

(c)Primarily represents the translation effect of balances denominated
in foreign currencies.
 


119






