
10-K
1
a2210744z10-k.htm
10-K







Use these links to rapidly review the document
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  INDEX TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS












Table of Contents 

 
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549  





 
Form 10-K  













þ
 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
 



 
 
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012
 

 



 
 
 OR
 

 


o
 
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 

 



 
 
For the transition period
from                           to             
              
 

 










Commission File Number: 001-16633  





 
Array BioPharma Inc. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) 











Delaware
 
84-1460811


 (State of Incorporation)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




3200 Walnut Street
Boulder, Colorado 80301 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) 
(303) 381-6600 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) 
Common Stock, Par Value $.001 per Share (Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act) 
The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ Global Market) (Name of Exchange on Which Registered) 
None (Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act) 
Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
Yes o No þ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
Yes o No þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. 
Yes þ No o 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). 
Yes þ No o 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.  þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 















Large accelerated filer o
 
Accelerated filer þ
 
Non-accelerated filer o
(do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 
Smaller reporting company o




Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 
Yes o No þ 
The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of December 31, 2011 (based upon the closing sale price
of such shares as of the last trading day of the second fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011, on the NASDAQ Global Market) was $76,832,196. Shares of the Registrant's common stock held by
each executive officer and director and by each entity that owns 5% or more of the Registrant's outstanding common stock have been excluded in that such persons or entities may be deemed to be
affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes. 
Number
of shares outstanding of the registrant's class of common stock as of August 10, 2012: 92,081,519. 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 14A for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the extent stated therein. 
  

   


 
















Table of Contents 
 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS     
 

 














 
 
 
 
Page No. 


 PART I
 
 
 
1


   Item 1.
 
Business
 
2


   Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
 
33


   Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
 
55


   Item 2.
 
Properties
 
55


   Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
55


   Item 4.
 
Mine Safety Disclosures
 
55


 PART II
 
 
 
56


   Item 5.
 
Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
56


   Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
 
58


   Item 7.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
59


   Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
 
74


   Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
75


   Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
75


   Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
 
75


   Item 9B.
 
Other Information
 
76


 PART III
 
 
 
77


   Item 10.
 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
77


   Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation
 
77


   Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
77


   Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
 
77


   Item 14.
 
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
78


 PART IV
 
 
 
79


   Item 15.
 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
79


 SIGNATURES
 
 
 
80









 











Table of Contents 
 
 
PART I


 
Array BioPharma Inc. and the Array BioPharma Inc. logo are trademarks of Array BioPharma Inc. All other brand names or
trademarks appearing in this report are the property of their respective holders. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "Array," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Array
BioPharma Inc. 
 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  
This Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission contain
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve significant risks and uncertainties. In addition, we may make forward-looking
statements in our press releases or in other oral or written communications with the public. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the future drug
development plans and projected timelines for the initiation and completion of preclinical and clinical trials by Array or our collaborators; the potential for the results of ongoing preclinical or
clinical trials conducted by Array or our collaborators to support regulatory approval or the marketing success of drug candidates; our plans with respect to the timing and scope of the expansion of
our clinical and commercialization capabilities; other statements regarding our future product development and regulatory strategies, including with respect to specific indications; the ability of
third-party contract manufacturing parties to support our drug development activities; any statements regarding our future financial performance, results of operations or sufficiency of capital
resources to fund our operating requirements; and any other statements which are other than statements of historical fact. 
Although
we believe the assumptions upon which our forward-looking statements are based currently to be reasonable, our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these
forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, our ability to continue to fund and successfully progress internal research and development
efforts and to create effective, commercially viable drugs; our ability to effectively and timely conduct clinical trials in light of increasing costs and difficulties in locating appropriate trial
sites and in enrolling patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials; the extent to which the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are willing to in-license drug
candidates for their product pipelines and to collaborate with and fund third parties on their drug discovery activities; our ability to out-license our proprietary candidates on favorable
terms; risks associated with our dependence on our collaborators for the clinical development and commercialization of our out-licensed drug candidates; the ability of our collaborators
and of Array to meet objectives tied to milestones and royalties; our ability to attract and retain experienced scientists and management; our ability to achieve and maintain profitability; and the
risk factors set forth below under the caption Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are providing this information as of the date of this report. We undertake no duty to update any forward-looking
statements to reflect the occurrence of events or circumstances after the date of such statements or of anticipated or unanticipated events that alter any assumptions underlying such statements. 
 Market and Industry Data  
Unless otherwise indicated, information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report concerning the cancer market, the pain market,
the drug market and our other markets, including our general expectations and market position, market opportunity and
market share, is based on information from independent industry analysts and third party sources and management estimates. Management estimates are derived from publicly available information released
by independent industry analysts and third-party sources, as well as data from our internal research, and are based on assumptions made by us based on such data and our knowledge of such industry and
markets, which we believe to be reasonable. 
1



 
Table of Contents
We
have not independently verified or verified with any independent source any third-party information and cannot assure you of its accuracy or completeness. In addition, while we believe the market
position, market opportunity and market share information included in this Annual Report is generally reliable, such information is inherently imprecise. Such data involves risks and uncertainties and
are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed under the heading "Risk Factors." 
 
 
  ITEM 1 — BUSINESS     
 Our Business  
Array BioPharma Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of targeted small-molecule
drugs to treat patients afflicted with cancer and inflammatory diseases. Array is evolving into a late-stage development company, with two wholly-owned programs, ARRY-614 and
ARRY-520, and three partnered programs, selumetinib partnered with AstraZeneca, MEK162 partnered with Novartis, and danoprevir, an NS3 protease inhibitor, partnered with InterMune / Roche,
having the potential to begin pivotal trials by the end of calendar year 2013. 
Array's
most advanced proprietary clinical programs include: 













Proprietary Program
 
Indication
 
Clinical Status


 


 
 

 
 

 


1. ARRY-520
 
Kinesin spindle protein, or KSP, inhibitor for multiple myeloma
 
Phase 2


2. ARRY-614
 
p38/Tie2 dual inhibitor for myelodysplastic syndromes, or MDS
 
Phase 1


3. ARRY-797
 
p38 inhibitor for pain
 
Phase 2


4. ARRY-502
 
CRTh2 antagonist for asthma
 
Phase 2




2



 
Table of Contents
In
addition, Array has 10 partner-funded clinical programs, including two MEK inhibitors in Phase 2 clinical trials, selumetinib with AstraZeneca and MEK162 with Novartis: 















Drug Candidate
 
Indication
 
Partner
 
Clinical Status


 


 
 

 
 

 
 

 


1. Selumetinib
 
MEK inhibitor for cancer
 
AstraZeneca, PLC
 
Phase 2


2. MEK162
 
MEK inhibitor for cancer
 
Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd.
 
Phase 2


3. Danoprevir
 
Hepatitis C virus protease inhibitor
 
InterMune (now owned by Roche Holding AG)
 
Phase 2


4. AMG 151
 
Glucokinase activator for Type 2 diabetes
 
Amgen Inc.
 
Phase 2


5. ARRY-543/ASLAN001
 
HER2/EGFR inhibitor for gastric cancer
 
ASLAN Pharmaceuticals Pte Ltd.
 
Phase 2


6. GDC-0068
 
AKT inhibitor for cancer
 
Genentech Inc.
 
Phase 2


7. LY2603618
 
Chk-1 inhibitor for cancer
 
Eli Lilly and Company
 
Phase 2


8. GDC-0575 and GDC-0425
 
Chk-1 inhibitors for cancer
 
Genentech Inc.
 
Phase 1b


9. ARRY-382
 
cFMS inhibitor for cancer
 
Celgene Corporation
 
Phase 1


10. VTX-2337
 
Toll-like receptor for cancer
 
VentiRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
Phase 1b




We
also have a portfolio of proprietary and partnered drug discovery programs generated by our internal discovery efforts. Our internal drug discovery programs include inhibitors that target Trk
receptors for the treatment of pain and G-protein-coupled receptor 119 for the treatment of diabetes. We may choose to out-license select promising candidates through research
partnerships. 
Any information we report about the development plans or the progress or results of clinical trials or other development activities of our partners is based on information that
is publicly disclosed.
Our
significant collaborators include:


•Amgen – We entered into a worldwide strategic
collaboration with Amgen in December 2009 to develop and commercialize our glucokinase activator, AMG 151, which is currently in Phase 2 development for Type 2 diabetes, and to discover
potential back-up compounds for AMG 151. 
•ASLAN Pharmaceuticals – We entered into a collaboration
and license agreement with ASLAN Pharmaceuticals in July 2011 to develop Array's HER2 / EGFR inhibitor, ARRY-543, or ASLAN001, which is currently in a Phase 2 clinical trial in
patients with gastric cancer. 

3



 
Table of Contents


•AstraZeneca – In December 2003, we entered into a
collaboration and license agreement with AstraZeneca under which AstraZeneca received a license to three of our MEK inhibitors for cancer, including selumetinib, which is currently in multiple
Phase 2 clinical trials. 
•Celgene – We entered into a worldwide strategic
collaboration agreement with Celgene in September 2007 focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapeutics in cancer and inflammation. The most advanced drug is
ARRY-382, a cFMS inhibitor for cancer, which is currently in a Phase 1 clinical trial. 
•Genentech – We entered into a worldwide strategic
collaboration agreement with Genentech in January 2003, which was expanded in 2005, 2008, and 2009, and is focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapeutics. The most
advanced drug is GDC-0068, an AKT inhibitor for cancer, which is currently in a Phase 2 trial. 

In
August 2011, we entered into an oncology partnership with Genentech for the development of each company's small-molecule Checkpoint kinase 1 (Chk-1) program. The programs include
Genentech's compound GDC-0425 (RG7602) and Array's compound, GDC-0575, both of which are in Phase 1 clinical trials in patients with cancer. 


•Novartis – We entered into a worldwide strategic
collaboration with Novartis in April 2010 to develop and commercialize our MEK inhibitor, MEK162, and other MEK inhibitors identified in the agreement. MEK162 is currently in numerous Phase 1b
and Phase 2 clinical trials in patients with cancer. 
•InterMune (program acquired by Roche) – We entered into
a collaboration with InterMune in 2002, which resulted in the joint discovery of danoprevir, a novel small molecule inhibitor of the Hepatitis C Virus NS3/4A protease. Roche Holding AG acquired
danoprevir from InterMune in 2010. Danoprevir is currently in Phase 2b clinical trials. 

 Business History  
We have built our clinical development and drug discovery programs through spending $520.8 million from our inception in 1998 through
June 30, 2012. In fiscal 2012, we spent $56.7 million in research and development expenses for proprietary drug discovery, compared to $63.5 million and $72.5 million for
fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
We
have received a total of $577.9 million in research funding and in up-front and milestone payments from our collaboration partners from inception through June 30, 2012,
including $174 million in initial payments from our strategic collaborations with Amgen, Genentech and Novartis we entered into over the past 32 months. These three collaborations
entitle Array to receive up to over $2.2 billion in additional potential milestone payments if all clinical and commercialization milestones under the agreements are achieved, double digit
royalties and/or commercial co-detailing rights. With our other existing partnered programs, Array is entitled to receive a total of over $3.6 billion in additional potential
milestone payments if we or our collaborators achieve the drug discovery, development and commercialization objectives detailed in those agreements. We also have the potential to earn royalties on any
resulting product sales or share in the proceeds from development or commercialization arrangements resulting from 11 drug research and development programs. 
4



 
Table of Contents
 Our Strategy  
We are building a fully integrated, commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and markets safe and effective small molecule
drugs to treat patients afflicted with cancer and inflammatory diseases. We intend to accomplish this through the following strategies:


•Invent targeted small molecule drugs that are either first-in-class or second generation drugs
that demonstrate a competitive advantage over drugs currently on the market or in clinical development. 
•Selectively develop and commercialize our drugs to maximize their overall value. As our first drug nears approval, we plan
to build a U.S.-based therapeutically-focused sales force to commercialize or co-promote drugs we wholly own or for which we retain development rights in certain geographic areas.  
•Implement a partnering strategy in which we retain U.S. commercial and/or co-promotion rights for drugs that
can be distributed through a therapeutically specialized sales force and partner select early-stage programs for continued research and development to receive research funding plus significant
milestone payments and royalties. 

Our
out-license and collaboration agreements with our partners typically provide for up-front payments, research funding, success-based milestone payments,
co-detailing rights and/or royalties on product sales. These agreements may also be structured to share in the proceeds received from a collaborator resulting from the further development
or commercialization of resulting drugs. 
We
intend to continue to pursue partnering opportunities for our research and development programs to provide funding, development, manufacturing and commercial resources and may seek
co-development or co-commercialization rights worldwide or limited to certain geographic areas. We plan to advance and commercialize our most promising development assets
internally, which we believe will maximize their value. We are also identifying certain programs to partner earlier during discovery or preclinical development with the goal of optimizing the
potential return for Array on these programs. 
 Drug Discovery and Clinical Development Programs  
We have collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies under which we have out-licensed certain proprietary drug
programs for further research, development and commercialization. Our largest or most advanced collaborations include our agreements with Amgen, ASLAN Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Genentech,
InterMune/ Roche and Novartis. Under some of these collaborations, such as with Novartis for MEK162, we continue development work that is funded all or in part by our partners. Under some of our other
partnered programs, our involvement in the development or research phase has ended but we retain the right to receive clinical and commercialization milestones and/or royalties on sales of any
products covered by the collaboration. We also have research partnerships with leading
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for which we design, create and optimize drug candidates and conduct preclinical testing across a broad range of therapeutic areas on targets selected by our
partners. In certain of these partnerships, we also perform process research and development, perform clinical development and manufacture clinical supplies. 
Information
about our collaborators that comprise 10% or more of our total revenue and information about revenue we receive within and outside the U.S. can be found in  Note 2 – Segments, Geographical Information and
Significant Collaborators to the accompanying audited financial statements
included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 
5



 
Table of Contents
 Proprietary Programs  
Below is a description of the four most advanced clinical programs that we are developing, their stage in the drug development process and our
expected future development plans. Each of these programs is wholly-owned by Array. 















Drug Candidates 
 
Current Development Status 
 
Future Development Plan 


ARRY-520
 
KSP
 
Phase 2 single agent and Phase 1b combination trials in patients with multiple myeloma.
 
Complete and report data from the Phase 2 and 1b trials and, if positive results, advance into registration studies.


ARRY-614
 
p38/Tie2
 
Phase 1 dose escalation trial with an optimized formulation in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.
 
Meet with the FDA to discuss development plan to support registration. If continued positive results with the optimized formulation, advance into registration studies.


ARRY-797
 
p38
 
Completed Phase 2 randomized, double blind study in osteoarthritis patients.
 
Seek an appropriate partner to maximize value of ARRY-797, given the scope of a development program in pain.


ARRY-502
 
CRTh2
 
28-day Phase 2 trial in patients with asthma.
 
Report top-line results from Phase 2a trial and seek to partner.




1.     ARRY-520 — KSP Program for Multiple Myeloma  
ARRY-520 is a potent, selective KSP inhibitor; its mechanism of action is distinct from other drugs used to treat MM. In preclinical studies, ARRY-520
treatment resulted in a rapid onset of apoptosis in tumor cells that depend on the MCL-1 survival protein. MM and other hematologic cancers frequently depend on MCL-1 as a key
survival protein, which supports investigation of ARRY-520 in MM. In clinical studies, ARRY-520 has demonstrated durable, single-agent activity in patients with MM that is
refractory to both Velcade® (bortezomib) and Revlimid® (lenalidomide), a population with significant unmet therapeutic needs. ARRY-520 is highly active in animal
models of MM and synergy was observed when combined with Velcade or Revlimid. These data support the ongoing investigation of ARRY-520 in combination with Velcade and KyprolisTM
(carfilzomib), which may enable development opportunities in earlier lines of therapy. 
Array
presented Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical data for ARRY-520 at the December 2011 Annual Meeting of the American Society of Hematology (ASH). In these studies,
ARRY-520 showed preliminary clinical activity in heavily pre-treated patients with MM and was generally well-tolerated. 
In
the Phase 2 trial, ARRY-520 demonstrated promising activity in patients with relapsed or refractory MM who had received both a proteasome inhibitor and an IMiD-based
regimen. Objective responses (³MR) were observed in six patients (19%), with four confirmed partial responses and two minor responses. Importantly,
ARRY-520 demonstrated an 18% response rate (minor response or better) in patients with MM refractory to both Revlimid and Velcade. 
6



 
Table of Contents
 Development Status:    During fiscal 2012, we:


•continued a Phase 2 trial in combination with dexamethasone in patients with MM refractory to Revlimid, Velcade and
dexamethasone therapy; •continued a Phase 1b trial of ARRY-520 in combination with Velcade plus dexamethasone in patients with
relapsed and refractory MM; and •collaborated with M.D. Anderson and Onyx Therapeutics, Inc. on an investigator-sponsored Phase 1b study of
ARRY-520 in combination with Kyprolis™ (carfilzomib) in patients with relapsed or refractory MM who are refractory or intolerant to Velcade. 

During
fiscal 2013, we plan to:


•report results from the Phase 2 study of ARRY-520 in combination with dexamethasone, interim results
from the Phase 1b study of ARRY-520 in combination with Velcade and dexamethasone and interim results from the Phase 1b study of ARRY-520 in combination with
Kyprolis; and •pending positive results in either of the above trials, define a path to late stage development for ARRY-520
in MM. 

2.     ARRY 614 — p38/Tie2 Program for Myelodysplastic Syndromes  
ARRY-614's dual p38/Tie2 inhibitor offers a unique mechanism of action for the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). p38 and Tie2 are dysregulated in the
bone marrow of patients with MDS. ARRY-614 enables the repopulation of red blood cells, platelets and neutrophils and is believed to restore bone marrow function by blocking
myelosuppression. ARRY-614 inhibits inflammation and cytokine-dependent tumor growth in preclinical models. 
MDS
are diseases characterized by over-production of myelosuppressive cytokines leading to aberrant apoptosis in hematologic progenitor cells and peripheral cytopenias. p38 MAP kinase
(p38) is implicated in dysregulation of apoptosis and myelosuppressive cytokine signaling and production. Tie2 may affect this process by promoting cytokine production and altering stromal cell
quiescence. It is hypothesized that disrupting cytokine-driven apoptosis in the normal progenitors and stromal cells may improve hematopoiesis in MDS patients. 
Array
presented positive clinical data for ARRY-614 at the December 2011 ASH and June 2012 European Hematology Association (EHA) meetings. ARRY-614 demonstrated activity
as measured by hematologic improvement (increased neutrophils, platelets and/or red blood cells) in patients with MDS and was generally well-tolerated. 
7




 










Table of Contents 
In a Phase 1 dose-escalation/expansion trial of 44 evaluable patients, ARRY-614 demonstrated activity as a single agent in patients with low or
intermediate-1 risk MDS under the International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) and for whom treatments with approved therapies have failed, including hypomethylating agents and Revlimid.
There was a 38% response rate for hematologic improvement in patients receiving the highest dose of 1200 mg daily (n=16). At this dose, ARRY-614 demonstrated multilineage hematologic
improvement in 67% of the responders, improving more than one cytopenia (neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and/or anemia). 
Hematologic
improvement with ARRY-614 was durable (five-month median response duration), with multiple patients remaining on therapy for over twelve months. Clinically
significant hematologic toxicity was minimal. Observed changes in pharmacodynamic markers included p38-dependent normalization of plasma erythropoietin, as well as decreases in phospho-p38
and disease-related apoptosis in the bone marrow. 
 Development Status:    During fiscal 2012, we initiated a second dose-escalation Phase 1 trial using an optimized formulation in patients with MDS.
During the next fiscal year, we plan to meet with the FDA to discuss the development plan to support registration, finish the ongoing Phase 1 trial and, given continued positive results,
initiate a potential registration study in patients with MDS. 
3.     ARRY-797 — p38 Program for Pain  
p38 regulates production of the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF and IL-1, both mediators of inflammation, and PGE2, a significant mediator of pain.
ARRY-797 is a novel, oral, selective p38 inhibitor with a mechanism of action unique from that of currently approved pain medications. Compared to other p38 inhibitors,
ARRY-797 has distinct properties: it is highly selective, has exceptional potency in whole blood samples, has a differentiated pharmacokinetic profile and is highly water soluble. 
In
two Phase 2 acute dental pain studies, ARRY-797 achieved statistically significant analgesic effects. In the course of clinical development to date, over 450 subjects/patients
have received at least one dose of ARRY-797. In these mostly short-duration studies, ARRY-797 was generally well-tolerated with common adverse events including
dizziness, headache, diarrhea and nausea, mostly mild in severity and with no clear relation to dose or duration of exposure. Post-hoc analyses of a 28-day rheumatoid arthritis
study and a 12-week ankylosing spondylitis study of ARRY-797 in a small number of patients conducted in 2009 suggested pain relief with ARRY-797. 
In
July 2012, Array announced that ARRY-797, a non-opioid, met its primary endpoint in a randomized, placebo-controlled and active-controlled (oxycodone ER) Phase 2
clinical trial in 157 osteoarthritis patients suffering from moderate to severe knee pain despite the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Patients in all
treatment groups continued using NSAIDs throughout the trial. Treatment with ARRY-797 resulted in a statistically significant reduction in pain over a 28-day period compared to
placebo, as measured using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC®) pain subscale (a 0 - 10 numerical pain rating scale). Patients
receiving ARRY-797 experienced a mean reduction in the WOMAC pain subscale score at day 28 vs. baseline that was 0.8 greater than those receiving placebo (2.4 vs. 1.6;
one-sided p = 0.0247). Oxycodone ER was used as the active control for the trial and achieved improvement of 0.28 versus placebo due to a higher discontinuation rate.
ARRY-797 also showed improvement relative to placebo or oxycodone ER in additional measures including, WOMAC physical function, WOMAC stiffness and the Patient's Treatment Satisfaction
Measure. The discontinuation rate due to adverse events was higher in patients treated with oxycodone ER (34%) than for either the ARRY-797 (6%) or placebo (8%) treatment groups. In
patients completing the trial, the reduction in WOMAC pain observed for ARRY-797 was comparable to that seen with oxycodone ER. In this trial,
ARRY-797 was considered overall to be well-tolerated at the selected dose of 
8



 
Table of Contents
400
mg twice-daily. The most common adverse events observed in patients treated with ARRY-797 were dizziness, diarrhea and nausea, which were mainly mild in severity. ARRY-797
treatment was associated with sporadic, transient increases in creatine kinase and aspartate aminotransferase. Mild prolongations of the QTc interval and sustained decreases in systolic and diastolic
blood pressure were also observed. 
To
further explore the safety and tolerability of ARRY-797, Array is currently conducting a multiple ascending dose trial in healthy volunteers at doses up to 2.5-fold higher
than those evaluated in the osteoarthritis pain trial. ARRY-797 has been well-tolerated in this trial to date, and greater QTc prolongations were observed at these higher dose
levels. No subject in either trial exhibited an absolute QTc interval greater than 500 msec or a change from baseline greater than 60 msec, two values cited by regulatory authorities, including the
FDA, as thresholds of particular concern for cardiac arrhythmia. We believe these QTc observations warrant further evaluation. 
 Development Status:    Array believes ARRY-797 has an opportunity to address a significant unmet medical need in both acute and chronic pain. Given the
scope of a development program in pain, Array will seek an appropriate partner to maximize the value of this drug. 
4.     ARRY-502 — CRTh2 Program for Asthma  
ARRY-502, an oral CRTh2 antagonist, has the potential to be an effective treatment for patients with asthma, particularly those with severe disease, and may have
advantages over competitor molecules in development. In various preclinical models of allergic inflammation, ARRY-502 has demonstrated a high level of anti-inflammatory
activity. In a randomized, double-blind, 14-day multiple ascending dose Phase 1 trial when ARRY-502 was dosed to healthy subjects, ARRY-502 was
well-tolerated at all doses evaluated, with all treatment-related adverse events being mild. Dose proportional increases in ARRY-502 exposure were observed with overall low
inter-subject variability. ARRY-502 provided robust and sustained pharmacodynamic activity in this Phase 1 trial. 
Inappropriate
inflammatory responses to environmental allergens underlie allergic reactions such as allergic asthma, allergic rhinitis and atopic dermatitis, which collectively affect up to 20% of the
United States population. Despite the range of treatments used to treat allergic asthma, there remains a significant need for patients with severe asthma as well as for more convenient, safe and
effective therapies for those with mild to moderate persistent asthma. Although severe asthma affects only approximately 10% of the asthmatic population, the condition results in approximately 60% of
total healthcare costs associated with asthma. Currently, few treatment options exist for patients with severe asthma. 
In
severe allergic asthma, there is emerging evidence suggesting that a greater presence of the mediator prostaglandin D2, or PGD2, and an upregulation of CRTh2, the biologically relevant receptor for
PGD2-mediated allergic response, that is expressed on inflammatory cells, may play a particularly important role in more pronounced symptoms of asthma such as coughing, difficulty
breathing, lower lung function and possibly exacerbations. Activation of CRTh2 has been shown to result in chemotaxis and activation of inflammatory cells and stimulate the production of cytokines
that are thought to drive asthma pathophysiology, particularly in the Th2-signature population. 
Based
on the role of CRTh2 in mediating the actions of PGD2, selective antagonism of CRTh2 presents an attractive therapeutic approach to the treatment of allergic diseases spanning the severity
spectrum. In addition, there is a potential for patient selection in allergic asthmatics which would increase the likelihood of successful treatment. There are selective antagonists of CRTh2 in
various stages of clinical development with compounds currently being evaluated in Phase 2 studies in allergic rhinitis, asthma and eosinophilic esophagitis. 
9



 
Table of Contents
 Development Status:    Array is continuing a randomized, double-blind, six week, 180 patient, Phase 2 trial in persistent asthma. Array expects
top-line results from this trial during the second quarter of calendar 2013 and intends to seek a partner for further development of ARRY-502 in this large market disease. 
 Partnered Development Programs  
Below are summaries of our most advanced, ongoing partnered development programs. Any information we report about the development plans or the
progress or results of clinical trials or other development activities of our partners is based on information that has been reported to us or is otherwise publicly disclosed by our collaboration
partners. 
1.     AstraZeneca — Selumetinib and AZD8330 — MEK Program  
In December 2003, we entered into an out-licensing and collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca to develop our MEK program. Under the agreement, AstraZeneca
acquired exclusive worldwide rights to our clinical development candidate, selumetinib (previously known as AZD6244, or ARRY-142886), together with two other compounds for oncology
indications, including AZD8330, which we invented during the collaboration. We retained the rights to all therapeutic indications for MEK compounds not selected by AstraZeneca for development, subject
to the parties' agreement to work exclusively together. In April 2009, the exclusivity of the parties' relationship ended, and both companies are now free to independently research, develop and
commercialize small molecule MEK inhibitors in the field of oncology. To date, we have earned $21.5 million in up-front and milestone payments. The agreement also provided for
research funding, which is now complete, and provides potential additional development milestone payments of approximately $75 million and royalties on product sales. 
Under
this collaboration, we were responsible for Phase 1 clinical testing, which we completed in 2004, and AstraZeneca is responsible for all future development and commercialization of the
compounds under the collaboration. 
MEK
is a key protein kinase in the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway, which signals cancer cell proliferation and survival. MEK has been shown to be frequently activated in cancer, in particular in tumors that
have mutations, including BRAF and NRAS, in the RAS and RAF pathways. Selumetinib is a small molecule MEK inhibitor that targets a key position in this pathway. 
 Development Status:    Selumentinib is currently in Phase 2 development in a range of solid tumors. There were two presentations of significant data for
selumetinib during fiscal 2012, which are summarized below. 
Phase 2 trial in patients with KRAS non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) – Data was presented in June 2012 at the
American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting from a double-blind, randomized Phase 2 study conducted by AstraZeneca comparing the efficacy of selumetinib in combination with
docetaxel versus docetaxel alone in second-line therapy in 87 patients with KRAS-mutation positive locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC (Stage IIIB —
IV). This study showed statistically significant improvement in progression-free survival, objective response rate, and alive and progression-free at six months as well as a
trend for improvement in median overall survival in favor of selumetinib in combination with docetaxel versus docetaxel alone (9.4 mo vs 5.2 mo; 56 events, median follow-up
219 days) but did not reach statistical significance. Hazards were non-proportional (HR 0.80; 80% CI 0.56, 1.14; 1-sided p=0.2069). All secondary endpoints, including
response rate (selumetinib/docetaxel 37%, docetaxel 0%; p<0.0001) and progression free survival (selumetinib/docetaxel 5.3 mo, 
10



 
Table of Contents
docetaxel
2.1 mo; 71 events; HR = 0.58; 80% CI 0.42, 0.79; 1-sided p=0.0138), were significantly improved for selumetinib in combination with docetaxel versus docetaxel alone. 
The
tolerability profile of selumetinib in combination with docetaxel was consistent with previously conducted studies. There was an increased incidence of Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia and febrile
neutropenia and of Grade 1 or 2 diarrhea in patients receiving the selumetinib combination versus docetaxel alone. 
This
study was the first completed randomized combination trial with a MEK inhibitor in KRAS mutant advanced NSCLC and Array believes was the first prospective study to demonstrate clinical benefit as
defined by response rate and progression free survival of a targeted therapy for patients with KRAS mutant cancer of any type. Approximately 20 to 25 percent of the NSCLC patient population has
the KRAS mutation which amounts to approximately 160,000 patients globally. Currently, patients with KRAS NSCLC have a poor prognosis with limited treatment options. Targeting MEK dependent tumors
with selumetinib demonstrates the potential of a personalized approach to medicine in the treatment of cancer and suggests that further clinical evaluation of selumetinib in KRAS mutation positive
NSCLC patients is warranted. 
Phase 2 trial in patients with recurrent low-grade serous ovarian or peritoneal cancer – In April 2012, the
Gynecologic Oncology Group presented results of a Phase 2 trial with selumetinib in women with recurrent low-grade serous ovarian or peritoneal cancer at the American Association
for Cancer Research Annual Meeting. This trial was funded by the National Cancer Institute and run by the Gynecologic Oncology Group. 
In
the reported trial, 52 women each received 100-mg doses of selumetinib orally twice daily in four-week cycles until disease progression or toxicity. The median number of
cycles received was 4.5; 33% received 12 or more cycles. Prior to the trial, 58% of the patients in the trial had received three or more rounds of chemotherapy. The disease control rate, defined as
either complete or partial response or progression-free survival or progression-free survival of greater than 6 months, was 81% of patients. Eight patients had complete
(1) or partial (7) responses, and 34 (63%) had progression-free survival of greater than 6 months. The median survival rate without cancer progression was
11 months. Only three patients experienced grade 4 adverse events. 
There
are 38 on-going trials with selumetinib, including trials in NSCLC, thyroid cancer, melanoma, ocular melanoma, hepatocellular cancer, rectal cancer, colorectal cancer, pancreatic
cancer and breast cancer. 
2.     Novartis — MEK162 and MEK300 — MEK Inhibitor Program  
In April 2010, we granted Novartis, under a License Agreement, the exclusive worldwide right to develop and commercialize MEK162. Under the agreement, we are responsible for
completing the on-going single agent Phase 1 clinical trial of MEK162 and may conduct further development of MEK162 in a specific cancer indication. Novartis is responsible for all
other development activities. Novartis is also responsible for the commercialization of products under the agreement, subject to our option to co-detail approved drugs in the U.S. 
In
connection with signing the agreement, Novartis paid us $45 million, comprising an up-front fee and an initial milestone payment. In April 2011, we received a $10 million
clinical research milestone from Novartis after Novartis had its first patient visit in a Phase 2 clinical trial. We are also eligible under the agreement to receive up to approximately
$412 million in aggregate milestone payments if all clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones specified in the agreement are achieved for MEK162 and additional commercial milestone
payments for MEK300 and other MEK inhibitors Novartis elects to 
11



 
Table of Contents
develop
under the agreement. The agreement provides Array with double- digit royalties on worldwide sales of any approved drugs, with royalties on U.S. sales at a significantly higher level. We will
pay a percentage of development costs up to a maximum amount with annual caps. We may opt out of paying such development costs with respect to one or more products; in which case the U.S. royalty rate
would then be reduced for any such product based on a specified formula,
subject to a minimum that equals the royalty rate on sales outside the U.S. and we would no longer have the right to develop or detail such product. 
The
agreement with Novartis will be in effect on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis until no further payments are due with respect to the
applicable product in the applicable country, unless terminated earlier. Either party may terminate the agreement in the event of a material breach of a material obligation under the agreement by the
other party that remains uncured after 90 days prior notice. Novartis may terminate portions of the agreement following a change in control of Array and may terminate the agreement in its
entirety or on a product-by-product basis with 180 days prior notice. Array and Novartis have each further agreed to indemnify the other party for manufacturing or
commercialization activities conducted by it under the agreement, negligence or willful misconduct or breach of covenants, warranties or representations made by it under the agreement. 
MEK162
has been administered to more than 430 patients/volunteers in clinical trials for either safety assessment or the treatment of oncology or inflammatory disease. The drug has demonstrated an
acceptable safety profile and has shown clinical activity in the ongoing cancer studies. 
 Development Status:    MEK162 was identified by Novartis as reaching clinical proof of concept in November 2011. There are ten clinical trials of MEK162 ongoing,
including two Phase 2 trials, three Phase 1b trials in combination with different PI3 kinase inhibitors and two Phase 1b trials in combination with different RAF inhibitors.
Promising data on MEK162 in an ongoing Phase 2 trial of patients with BRAF and NRAS mutated advanced melanoma were presented at the 2012 ASCO Annual Meeting. In this trial, MEK162 showed
clinical activity and good tolerability in patients with BRAF or NRAS melanoma. This is the first targeted therapy to show activity in patients with NRAS mutated melanoma. The ongoing Phase 2
open-label trial is being conducted by Novartis and continues to enroll patients. As of February 2012, eight of the 35 patients with BRAF mutations evaluable for response had partial
responses, including two confirmed partial responses, and 13 patients demonstrated stable disease. The disease control rate was 60 percent among these patients. Of the 28 patients with NRAS
mutations who were evaluable for response, six had partial responses, including three confirmed partial responses, and 13 patients had stable disease. The disease control rate was 68 percent
among these patients. The median progression-free survival was 3.55 months [95% CI 2.00 - 3.81 months] for patients with
BRAF mutation and 3.65 months [95% CI 2.53 - 5.39 months] for patients with NRAS mutations. 
Common
adverse events of all grades were consistent with data reported for the MEK inhibitor class and included rash, diarrhea, acneiform dermatitis, edema, creatine phosphokinase elevation, central
serous retinopathy-like events, nausea and fatigue. 
3.     InterMune (program now owned by Roche) — Danoprevir Hepatitis C Virus NS3/4 Protease Program  
In 2002, we entered into a collaboration with InterMune for the discovery of novel small molecule inhibitors of the Hepatitis C Virus, or HCV, NS3/4A protease. As a result of
drug discovery activities under this collaboration, scientists at Array and InterMune jointly discovered danoprevir. In October 2010 Roche acquired danoprevir from InterMune for $175 million.
InterMune thereafter ceased all further development efforts under the collaboration. Under the terms of Array's collaboration agreement with InterMune, InterMune has an obligation to make milestone
payments to us based on the selection and progress of 
12



 
Table of Contents
danoprevir,
as well as royalties on commercial sales of danoprevir. To date, we have received $1.8 million in milestone payments and have the potential to earn an additional $9.0 million
if all clinical and commercialization milestones for danoprevir are achieved under the agreement. 
 Development Status:    In 2011, Roche expanded its portfolio of investigational medicines for hepatitis C through the purchase of danoprevir. The hepatitis market is
evolving and, to meet the different needs of people infected with HCV, future treatment options are likely to include interferon-free, as well as interferon-containing triple- and
quadruple-combination therapy regimens. Roche has several oral, direct-acting antiviral agents in late-stage development for HCV, including danoprevir, which is currently in a
Phase 2 clinical trial. Roche is conducting two Phase 2 trials, MATTERHORN and INFORM-SVR, of danoprevir in combination with mericitabine, a nucleoside polymerase inhibitor being
developed by Roche, with and without interferon, or IFN, in two Phase 2 trials. Roche also conducted a Phase 2 trial, DAUPHINE, of danoprevir in IFN-containing regimens for
HCV. 
In
April 2012, Roche announced data at the Annual Meeting of the European Association for the Study of the Liver Congress from the DAUPHINE and INFORM-SVR studies. The DAUPHINE trial
showed high sustained viral response (SVR) rates, maintaining undetectable viral levels 12 weeks after stopping treatment, and good tolerability with danoprevir in
IFN-containing regimens for HCV. In this trial, up to 93% of genotype 1 and 100% of genotype 4 patients achieved SVR12 with ritonavir-boosted danoprevir, IFN and ribavirin,
considered a clinical cure. In the INFORM-SVR Phase 2 trial, 71% of genotype 1b patients achieved SVR12 with boosted danoprevir, mericitabine and ribavirin as part of an
IFN-free regimen. Results from a third MATTERHORN Phase 2 trial evaluating danoprevir in combination with mericitabine are currently expected during the second half of 2012. 
4.     ASLAN Pharmaceuticals — ASLAN001 (ARRY-543) — HER2 /EGFR Program  
In July 2011, we entered into a collaboration agreement with ASLAN Pharmaceuticals to develop Array's HER2 / EGFR inhibitor, ASLAN001 (ARRY-543), which is currently
in Phase 2 development in patients with gastric cancer in Asia. Under the agreement, ASLAN is funding and developing ASLAN001 through clinical proof of concept. Upon achievement of proof of
concept, ASLAN will identify a global partner for Phase 3 development and commercialization. Array will share a significant portion of the proceeds of such partnering transaction. 
The
agreement with ASLAN will remain in effect for two years after conclusion of the initial development plan, unless ASLAN has entered into a license agreement with a third party for the further
development and commercialization of the program, in which case the agreement shall remain in force and effect. Either party may terminate the agreement prior to expiration of the term following
breach of the agreement by the other party. ASLAN is responsible for diligently advancing development ASLAN001 under an agreed upon development plan. 
ASLAN001
is a novel, selective and oral HER2 / EGFR inhibitor, and has shown clinical activity in both HER2-positive and EGFR-positive tumors. Over 200 patients have received
ASLAN001 either as monotherapy or in combination with chemotherapy. 
Gastric
cancer is a major public-health problem in East Asia. Patients with locally advanced, metastatic or recurrent disease have a poor prognosis, with an overall median survival of approximately
11 months. EGFR and HER2 receptors are commonly overexpressed together in gastric cancer. Data from pivotal studies of Herceptin® (trastuzumab), indicate that the activity of this
drug is limited to the subset of patients whose disease has amplified copies of the HER2 gene. We believe ASLAN001 has the potential to augment or supersede the activity of Herceptin in this
population, and in the broader population of gastric cancers that co-express both EGFR and HER2 receptors. 
13



 
Table of Contents
In
a Phase 1 trial, ASLAN001 produced prolonged stable disease in patients with solid tumors who had previously failed prior treatments. Tablets of ASLAN001 were well-tolerated up
to 500 mg twice daily dosing. Systemic concentrations of ASLAN001 increased with escalating doses at all dose levels tested. Sixty percent of patients receiving doses of 200 mg twice daily and higher
had prolonged stable disease. 
In
a Phase 1 expansion cohort in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer or other ErbB-family cancer, ASLAN001 was generally well-tolerated and
demonstrated evidence of tumor regression and prolonged stable disease in EGFR- and HER2-expressing cancers. Twenty-one metastatic breast cancer patients were
evaluated: of the 12 with available biopsies, eight were confirmed HER2-positive. Of the confirmed patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer in this study, 63% had
stable disease. Clinical benefit (measured by tumor regression or stable disease) was demonstrated in five of the eight confirmed HER2 patients and patients with confirmed co-expression of
HER2 and EGFR tended to have the best clinical benefit. In a cohort of patients with other cancers shown to over-express HER2 and EGFR, a patient with cholangiocarcinoma experienced a
tumor marker response that was accompanied by a 25% regression of target lesions. 
 Development Status:    During fiscal 2012, ASLAN initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial with ASLAN001 in Asia in patients with gastric cancer. 
5.     Eli Lilly — LY2603618 — CHK-1 Inhibitor Program  
In 1999 and 2000, Array entered into collaboration agreements involving small molecule ChK-1 inhibitors with ICOS Corporation. IC83 resulted from the collaboration
between Array and ICOS. Eli Lilly and Company acquired ICOS in 2007. Array received a $250 thousand milestone payment after the first patient was dosed with IC83, now LY2603618, in a
Phase 1 clinical trial in early 2007. The agreements provided research funding, which has now ended. Array is entitled to receive additional milestone payments totaling $3.5 million
based on Eli Lilly's achievement of clinical and regulatory milestones with LY2603618. 
 Development Status:    LY2603618 is currently in multiple Phase 1b/2 clinical trials, including four that began in 2011, in cancers such as
non-small cell lung and pancreatic. 
6.     Amgen — AMG 151 — Glucokinase Activator Program for Type 2 Diabetes  
In December 2009, Array granted Amgen the exclusive worldwide rights to our small molecule glucokinase activator (GKA) program, including AMG 151. Under the Collaboration and
License
Agreement with Amgen, we were responsible for completing certain Phase 1 clinical trials of AMG 151, which we completed during fiscal 2011. Amgen also funded an agreed upon number of
full-time Array employees as part of the research collaboration intended to identify and advance second-generation GKAs. Amgen is responsible for the further development and
commercialization of AMG 151 and any resulting second-generation compounds. The agreement also provides Array with an option to co-promote any approved GKAs with Amgen in the U.S. with
certain limitations. 
14




 










Table of Contents 
In partial consideration for the rights granted to Amgen under the agreement, Amgen paid an up-front fee of $60 million. In June 2012, Array received an
$8.5 million milestone payment following achievement of a pre-defined patient enrollment milestone in a Phase 2a trial. Array is entitled to receive up to approximately
$658 million in additional aggregate milestone payments if all clinical and commercialization milestones specified in the agreement for AMG 151 and at least one backup compound are achieved. We
will also receive royalties on sales of any approved drugs developed under the agreement. 
The
agreement with Amgen will remain in effect on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis until no further payments are due under the
agreement unless terminated earlier. Either party may terminate the agreement in the event of a material breach of a material obligation under the agreement by the other party that remains uncured
after 90 days prior notice. Amgen may terminate the agreement at any time upon notice of 60 or 90 days depending on the development activities going on at the time of such notice. The
parties have also agreed to indemnify each other for certain liabilities arising under the agreement. 
GKAs,
such as AMG 151, represent a promising new class of drugs for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. Glucokinase is the enzyme that senses glucose in the pancreas. Glucokinase also increases
glucose utilization and decreases glucose production in the liver. GKAs regulate glucose levels via a dual mechanism of action — working in both the pancreas and the liver.
The activation of glucokinase lowers glucose levels by enhancing the ability of the pancreas to sense glucose, which leads to increased insulin production. Simultaneously, GKAs increase the net uptake
of blood glucose by the liver. In multiple well-established preclinical models of Type 2 diabetes, AMG 151 was highly efficacious in controlling both fasting and
non-fasting blood glucose, with rapid onset of effect and maximal efficacy within five to eight once daily doses. When combined with existing standard-of-care drugs
(metformin, Januvia® (sitagliptin) or Actos® (pioglitazone)), AMG 151 provided additional glucose control, which reached maximal efficacy after five to seven days of
once-daily dosing. AMG 151 did not increase body weight, plasma triglycerides or total cholesterol, whether used as monotherapy or in combination with other diabetes drugs. 
 Development Status:    In October 2011, Amgen initiated a randomized and blinded 28-day Phase 2a trial of AMG 151 in combination with metformin in
approximately 224 patients with Type 2 diabetes. The primary endpoint for this study is change in fasting plasma glucose levels from baseline to end of treatment. 
7.     Genentech — GDC-0068 (RG7440), GDC-0425 (RG7602) and GDC-0575 (RG7741)  
We entered into a licensing and collaboration agreement with Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, in December 2003 to develop small molecule drugs against multiple
therapeutic targets in the field of oncology. We initiated this collaboration to advance two of our proprietary oncology programs into clinical development. These programs included small molecule
leads we had developed along with additional, related intellectual property. Under the agreement, Genentech made an up-front payment, provides research funding and has so far paid us
milestones for nominating a clinical candidate and advancing it into regulated safety assessment testing and Phase 1. In addition, Genentech has agreed to make additional potential development
milestone payments and pay us royalties on certain resulting product sales. Genentech is solely responsible for clinical development and commercialization of the resulting products. 
In
2005 and 2009, we expanded our collaboration with Genentech to develop clinical candidates directed against an additional third, fourth and fifth targets. Under the agreement, we receive additional
research funding, as well as potential research and development milestone payments and product royalties based on the success of each new program. In September 2010, we and Genentech extended the
agreement 
15



 
Table of Contents
for
an additional two years of funded research through January 2013. Genentech may terminate the agreement upon 120 days' notice. Genentech has paid Array a total of $21.3 million in
up-front and milestone payments, and we have the potential to earn an additional $26.3 million for all programs if Genentech continues development and achieves the remaining
clinical milestones set forth in the agreement. 
 Development Status:    In June 2011, Genentech advanced one collaborative drug, GDC-0068 , an AKT inhibitor, into a Phase 1b, open label, dose
escalation trial evaluating the safety and pharmacology of GDC-0068 in combination with either Taxotere (docetaxel) or mFOLFOX6 (fluoropyrimine) plus oxaliplatin in patients with advanced
solid tumors. At the 2012 ASCO Annual Meeting, Genentech presented results from this trial showing that GDC-0068, when combined with Taxotere or mFOLFOX6, was safe and
well-tolerated up to the single agent maximum tolerated dose (600 mg). There were no dose limiting toxicities observed during dose escalations; one out of 47 patients discontinued due to
GDC-0068-related adverse events. There were no pharmacokinetic interactions observed between GDC-0068 and Taxotere or mFOLFOX6. Both combinations show evidence of
clinical benefit, including patients with PI3K/Akt pathway alterations and with prior treatment with taxanes or platinum agents. This trial continues to enroll and evaluate patients in dose expansion
cohorts. 
In
addition, over the past six months, Genentech initiated two trials: 

1.Phase 1b/2
trial with GDC-0068 or GDC-0980, a PI3 Kinase/mTor dual inhibitor, with abiraterone acetate versus abiraterone
acetate in patients with locally advanced castration-resistant prostate cancer.
2.Phase 1
trial with GDC-0068 in combination with GDC-0973, a MEK inhibitor being developed in collaboration with Exelixis, to
evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of GDC-0068 in patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. 
8.     Genentech – GDC-0425 (RG7602) and GDC-0575 (RG7741) — Checkpoint kinase 1 (ChK-1)
inhibitors program  
In August 2011, Array and Genentech entered into an oncology agreement with for the development of each company's small- molecule ChK-1 program. The programs
include Genentech's compound GDC-0425 (RG7602), and Array's compound GDC-0575 (previously known as ARRY-575), both of which are in Phase 1 in patients with
cancer. Under the terms of the agreement, Genentech is responsible for all clinical development and commercialization activities. Array received an up-front payment of $28 million
and is eligible to receive clinical and commercial milestone payments up to $685 million and up to double-digit royalties on sales of any resulting drugs. The agreement will remain in effect
until Genentech's obligations to make milestone or royalty payments have passed or expired. 
Either
party may terminate the agreement prior to expiration of the term following breach of the agreement by the other party, and Genentech may terminate the agreement upon at least 60 days'
prior notice to Array. If Genentech terminates the agreement for breach of the agreement by Array, the license Array granted to Genentech will become irrevocable and the royalty payable to Array will
be reduced to a specified percentage. If the agreement is terminated by Genentech for convenience or by Array for breach of the agreement by Genentech, the licenses Array granted to Genentech will
terminate, Genentech will continue to be required to pay milestone and royalty payments on any programs for which Genentech had initiated clinical development and Array's exclusivity obligations will
continue so long as Genentech is developing or commercializing at least one product subject to the agreement. Array and Genentech have also agreed to indemnify the other party for breaches of
representations or warranties made under the agreement and for certain of their respective activities under the agreement. 
16



 
Table of Contents
 Development Status:    In April 2012, Genentech initiated a Phase 1 multiple ascending dose trial to evaluate GDC-0575 alone and in combination
with Gemzar® (gemcitabine) in approximately 90 patients with refractory solid tumors or lymphoma. In addition, Genentech continued to advance GDC-0425 in a Phase 1
multiple ascending dose trial alone and in combination with Gemzar in approximately 75 patients with refractory solid tumors or lymphoma. 
9.     VentiRx — VTX-2337 /Toll-Like Receptor (TLR) Program  
In February 2007, we entered into a licensing and collaboration agreement with the privately held biopharmaceutical company VentiRx, under which we granted VentiRx exclusive
worldwide rights to certain molecules from our toll-like receptor, or TLR, program. The program contains a number of compounds targeting TLRs to activate innate immunity, including
VTX-2337. We received equity in VentiRx as well as an up-front payment and the right to receive potential milestone payments and royalties on product sales. To date, we have
received $1.1 million in milestone payments and have the potential to earn $57.5 million if VentiRx achieves the remaining clinical and commercial milestones under the agreement. See  Note 5 — Equity
Investment to the accompanying audited financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for a description of the equity interest we received in VentiRx as a result of this agreement. 
 Development Status:    Phase 1 results on VTX-2337 were reported at the American Society of Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting in 2011. Overall,
VTX-2337 was well-tolerated, with the most common drug-related adverse events being mild to moderate in severity and including injection-site reactions
and transient flu-like symptoms. The maximum tolerated dose of VTX-2337 was established to be 3.9 mg/m2. In addition, pharmacodynamic effects—as measured by a
defined panel of biomarkers identified in preclinical studies—provide evidence of the biological activity of VTX-2337 in stimulating an innate immune response in cancer
patients. Twenty five percent of patients (N=8) treated with VTX-2337 experienced disease stabilization based on RECIST criteria at eight weeks. Patients with disease stabilization at
eight weeks received additional doses of VTX-2337, ranging from 1 to 6 additional cycles (3 to 18 additional doses), until disease progression. One patient with metastatic melanoma
demonstrated tumor regression after cessation of VTX-2337 remains disease free at 18 months post-treatment. 
VentiRx
has advanced VTX-2337 into clinical trials designed to evaluate the compound in multiple oncology indications in combination with a variety of anticancer agents, including
chemotherapy and monoclonal antibody therapy. Clinical trials of VTX-2337 currently underway include a combination study with chemotherapy in late stage ovarian cancer and a combination
trial with cetuximab in head and neck cancer patients. 
10.  Celgene — Programs for Oncology and Inflammation, including ARRY-382  
In September 2007, we entered into a worldwide strategic collaboration with Celgene focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapeutics in cancer
and inflammation. Under the agreement, Celgene made an up-front payment of $40 million to us in part to provide research funding for activities conducted by Array. We are
responsible for all discovery and clinical development through Phase 1 or Phase 2a. Celgene has an option to select a limited number of drugs developed under the collaboration that are
directed to up to two of four mutually selected discovery targets and will receive exclusive worldwide rights to the drugs, except for limited co-promotional rights in the U.S. Celgene's
option may be exercised with respect to drugs directed at any of the four targets at any time until the earlier of completion of Phase 1 or Phase 2a trials for the drug or September
2014. In June 2009, the parties amended the agreement to substitute a new discovery target in place of an existing target and Celgene paid Array an up-front fee of $4.5 million in
consideration for the amendment. In September 
17



 
Table of Contents
2009,
Celgene notified us that it was waiving its rights to one of the programs, leaving Celgene the option to select two of the remaining three targets. We retain all rights to the programs Celgene
does not select. 
In
November 2010, Array received a $10 million milestone payment upon filing an IND application for ARRY-382, a cFMS inhibitor, which is currently in a Phase 1 clinical trial
in patients with solid tumors. Under this program, we are entitled to receive potential milestone payments of $190 million if certain discovery, development and regulatory milestones are
achieved and an additional $300 million if certain commercial milestones are achieved. Additionally, under the second program selected, we are entitled to receive potential milestone payments
of $200 million if certain discovery, development and regulatory milestones are achieved and an additional $300 million if certain commercial milestones are achieved. We will also
receive royalties on net sales of any drugs. 
During
fiscal 2012, Array received $1.5 million in payments from Celgene to extend the research activities on one of the preclinical programs. 
Celgene
may terminate the agreement in whole, or in part with respect to individual drug development programs for which Celgene has exercised its option, upon six months' written notice to us. In
addition, either party may terminate the agreement, following certain cure periods, in the event of a breach by the other party of its obligations under the agreement. Celgene can also choose to
terminate its participation in any drug development program for which they have not exercised an option at any time, provided that they must give us prior notice, generally less than 30 days.
In this event, all rights to the program remain with Array and we would no longer be entitled to receive milestone payments for further development or regulatory milestones we achieve if we choose to
continue development of the program. 
 Development Status:    During fiscal 2012, we continued a dose escalation study of ARRY-382 in patients with cancer. 
 Market Opportunity  
Our proprietary pipeline is focused on targeted drugs that treat cancer and inflammatory diseases and related pain. We believe there is a substantial
opportunity in creating drugs for these diseases that meet the demand from the medical community for targeted therapies that treat both the underlying disease as well as control symptoms more
effectively and/or more safely than drugs that are currently available. We believe future patient care will improve with the use of screening to select targeted therapies for more effective disease
treatment. Also, clinical trials aimed at well-defined patient populations may show improved response rates and may thereby increase the chances for approval with regulatory agencies such
as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. This approach may result in a greater number of marketed drugs each aimed at a smaller subset of patients. 
The
worldwide market for targeted cancer drugs—the cancer drug market's fastest growing segment—is forecast to grow from $35.0 billion in 2010 to $81.1 billion in
2018. There remains a large need to address patients with acute or sub-acute pain, such as postoperative pain and musculoskeletal pain, as well as pain from chronic conditions such as
osteoarthritis pain and chronic lower back pain. The worldwide market for key classes of medications used to treat these types of acute, sub-acute and chronic pain conditions,
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs, cyclooxygenase-2, or COX-2, inhibitors, opioids, dual-acting opioids and other
non-narcotic analgesics are forecast to grow from $19.6 billion in 2010 to $21.8 billion in 2018. The inflammatory disease market is highly diverse and includes respiratory
diseases such as asthma, allergic rhinitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; dermatological conditions such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis; gastrointestinal disorders such as Crohn's
disease and ulcerative colitis; musculoskeletal disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and gout; and spondyloarthropathies such as psoriatic arthritis and
ankylosing 
18



 
Table of Contents
spondylitis.
The inflammatory disease market is forecast to grow from $72.1 billion in 2010 to $97.5 billion in 2018. 
In
addition, the pharmaceutical industry has an ongoing need to fill clinical development pipelines with new drugs to drive future revenue growth. Despite increased spending on internal research, the
industry has been unable to meet this demand. As a result, it has become increasingly reliant on biotech companies to acquire new drugs. Due to the scarcity of later-stage clinical assets available
for in-licensing, these companies have been willing to enter into licensing deals at early stages, including the preclinical stage. However, once a drug has entered clinical development,
companies generally require proof-of-concept data, which includes both efficacy and safety data, before they will consider licensing a drug candidate. Accordingly, we believe
there is an opportunity to license drugs at several stages during the drug development process. 
 Cancer Market  
Despite a wide range of available cancer therapies, patients' treatment responses remain limited and variable. As a result, oncologists are
increasingly using combination therapies and drug dosing regimens tailored for individual tumor types and patients. Targeted therapies are able to specifically target the underlying mechanisms of the
disease by regulating discrete aspects of cellular function affecting cancer cells to a greater extent than normal cells. As such, they hold the promise of being more efficacious with fewer side
effects than cytotoxic chemotherapy drugs. Further, biomarkers are increasingly playing a role in both patient prognosis and drug selection. We believe certain cancers will eventually become chronic
diseases, treated with a combination of targeted therapies. Our research strategy in the cancer market is to build a pipeline of targeted therapies. 
According
to estimates contained in the American Cancer Society, Cancer Facts and Figures 2012, in the U.S. there will be an estimated
1.6 million new cases of cancer in 2012 and nearly 600 thousand cancer- related deaths. The five-year relative survival rate for all cancers diagnosed between 2001 and 2007
was 68%, up from 49% in 1975 to 1977. Earlier diagnosis and the use of new and/or better treatments have driven this improvement. 
The
following table shows estimated new cases diagnosed and estimated deaths in the U.S. during 2012 by major cancer types of interest to Array: 
















 
 
Estimated 2012 
 


Type of Cancer 
 
New Cases 
 
Deaths 
 


 Lung
 
 
226,160
 
 
160,340
 


 Breast
 
 
229,060
 
 
39,920
 


 Colorectal
 
 
143,460
 
 
51,690
 


 Melanoma
 
 
76,250
 
 
9,180
 


 Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
 
 
70,130
 
 
18,940
 


 Thyroid
 
 
56,460
 
 
1,780
 


 Myelodysplastic Syndromes
 
 
45,000
 
 
unknown
 


 Pancreas
 
 
43,920
 
 
37,930
 


 Ovarian
 
 
22,280
 
 
15,500
 


 Stomach
 
 
21,320
 
 
10,540
 


 Myeloma
 
 
21,700
 
 
10,710
 


 Acute Myeloid Leukemia
 
 
13,780
 
 
10,200
 


 Gallbladder and Other Biliary
 
 
9,810
 
 
3,200
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
979,330
 
 
369,930
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




19



 
Table of Contents
The
use of targeted therapies has the potential to change the focus of cancer treatment away from categorization and treatment modality by organ type and towards categorization and treatment
modalities by level of gene expression in individual patients, or "personalized medicine." Targeted therapies and personalized medicine hold the promise of increased survival with improved quality of
life. 
Oncology,
both in treating cancer itself and as palliative therapy, has been a major therapeutic category for biotechnology companies since the inception of the industry. Recently, major
pharmaceutical companies have increased their research and development and in-licensing investment in this market, particularly the targeted cancer therapy market. Some of the targeted
therapies currently on the market that have been successful include Avastin® (bevacizumab), Gleevec® (imatinib mesylate), Herceptin, Rituxan® (rituximab), and
Zelboraf® (vemurafenib). 
 Multiple Myeloma (ARRY-520 — KSP inhibitor)  
Multiple Myeloma, or MM, is a hematological cancer in which malignant plasma cells are overproduced in the bone marrow. Plasma cells normally produce
antibodies to fight infection and disease. In multiple myeloma, the malignant plasma cells typically accumulate in the bone marrow, causing a number of disease-related complications, including bone
loss, anemia, infection, renal failure, hypercalcemia and neurological symptoms. 
MM
is the third most common hematologic malignancy, and garners significant sales due to the cost of treatment regimens and relatively long life expectancies among patients. Despite advances in
therapy over the last decade, it remains an incurable, fatal disease in all patients. It primarily afflicts the elderly with median age at diagnosis of 68 for men and 70 for women in the U.S. The
annual incidence of newly diagnosed MM patients is approximately 48 thousand in the seven major global markets (U.S., France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the U.K. and Japan) with approximately
19 thousand in the U.S. Survival has increased in recent years to approximately five years for patients able to undergo stem cell transplant in combination with high-dose targeted
drug therapy. There were over 71 thousand patients with MM in the U.S. in 2009. 
Market
growth of therapies that treat MM is expected to be strong, with sales across the seven major pharmaceutical markets forecasted to grow annually by 5.6% from $3.6 billion in 2010 to
$6.2 billion in 2020. This growth will be driven by three factors: 

1.Increased
efficacy of current treatments, notably the leading targeted therapies (the proteasome inhibitor Velcade, and the IMiDs, Revlimid and Thalomid,
leading to longer life expectancy and allowing for more drug therapy to be administered over the disease course;
2.Increased
use of existing and new drug combinations, particularly combinations with Velcade and Revlimid, leading to higher overall regimen costs; and
3.Introduction
and uptake of new, higher cost therapies, particularly greater uptake of Revlimid and anticipated launch of premium priced next generation
proteasome inhibitors and IMiDs such as Kyprolis and pomalidomide. 
Despite
progress in treating MM, current treatments do not cure the disease and are accompanied by high toxicity. Patients who have become refractory to both IMiD and proteasome inhibitor therapy have
a particularly poor outcome, with a median overall survival of six to nine months. Therefore, opportunities remain for drug therapies with novel mechanisms of action and/or drugs that can treat
refractory patients and can act synergistically with existing leading therapies. 
20




 










Table of Contents 
ARRY-520 targets the mitotic kinesin motor protein KSP, a distinct mechanism of action from current standard of care drugs. Preclinically, ARRY-520
shows significant single-agent activity in disease models resistant to standard of care drugs. Furthermore, ARRY-520 shows additivity and synergy with either Velcade or Revlimid in
multiple preclinical models, supporting the potential for combining with these standard-of-care therapies. In clinical trials, ARRY-520 has shown signs of clinical
activity in heavily pre-treated patients as a single agent; it is one of the few non-IMiD or proteasome inhibitor drugs to show single agent activity in this patient
population. ARRY-520 has also shown activity in patients with disease refractory to Revlimid and Velcade which supports the potential for further development of ARRY-520 in
patients refractory to other therapies. 
Based
on this activity, we believe ARRY-520 has potential in combination with dexamethasone for treating patients with MM who are refractory to both Revlimid and Velcade, and in
combination with other standard of care therapies in relapsed and refractory MM. 
 Myelodysplastic Syndromes (ARRY-614 — p38/Tie2 inhibitor)  
Formerly known as "pre-leukemia", the myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a spectrum of diseases in which the bone marrow does not make
enough normal blood cells. Patients with MDS develop severe anemia, and platelet and neutrophil cytopenias, due to bone marrow failure. As MDS progresses, patients require frequent blood and platelet
transfusions, and are prone to severe and fatal infections and bleeding episodes. Approximately 30% of MDS patients progress to Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) which is estimated at over 1,000 deaths in
2012 in the U.S. MDS primarily afflicts the elderly, with a median age at diagnosis of 71 years. 
According
to an article published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology, June 2010, there were 45,000 new cases of Myelodysplastic Syndromes during 2003 in the U.S. This is four to five times greater
than official estimates of MDS incidence based on the National Cancer Institute Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results Program. The analysis also concluded that MDS patients have debilitating
comorbidities, with significantly greater frequency than the overall population, such as cardiac complications (73%), dyspnea (49%), diabetes (40%) and severe infections (22%). Further, over a
three-year period, 40% of MDS patients died compared with 15% for the overall population of the same age. These findings on the significance of comorbidities have been demonstrated in
other studies. Notably, in a recent subpopulation study of "low" grade MDS patients at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, infections were the most common cause of disease related death (38%), with
hemorrhage (13%) also significant. These findings underscore the importance of addressing aspects of the disease such as neutrophil and platelet deficiencies and may support earlier therapeutic
interventions. 
Market
growth of therapies that treat MDS is forecast to grow rapidly by almost 8% annually from 2010 to 2017; total sales of existing therapies are projected to increase from approximately
$750 million in 2010 to $1.3 billion in 2017 across the seven major pharmaceutical markets. This forecast does not include additional potential growth resulting from any novel, emerging
therapies. Current approved therapies on the market include Vidaza® (azacitidine), Revlimid and Dacogen® (decitabine). Vidaza and Revlimid will have captured 83% of the market
by end of 2011, although a complete response following treatment with these agents is rare. We expect the recent approvals of these agents for MDS to also drive an increase in the overall
drug-treated population, because access to these agents will encourage treatment and because there are no other therapeutic drug options currently available. 
A
limited number of other therapies which target key players in the underlying biology of MDS are being investigated in MDS including p38 MAPK and Tie2. p38 is well-known for its role in
the regulation of cytokine and chemokine signaling and production. There is a growing understanding of the role of p38 in the modulation of apoptosis and survival. Tie2 signaling may promote stromal
cell quiescence and 
21



 
Table of Contents
production
of myelosuppressive cytokines leading to inappropriate apoptosis. We believe ARRY-614, a dual p38/Tie2 inhibitor, may be effective in the treatment of MDS, particularly in
settings where hypomethylating agents such as Vidaza and Dacogen have failed, by providing clinical benefit through multi-lineage hematologic improvement (i.e. an increase in red blood cells,
neutrophil cells and platelets), thereby reducing the need for red blood cell and platelet transfusions. 
 Lung Cancer (MEK162 and Selumetinib — MEK inhibitors)  
Lung cancer is by far the leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the U.S. Lung cancer forms in the tissues of the lung, usually in the cells
lining air passages. The two main types of lung cancer are non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), which represents about 85%, and small cell lung cancer (SCLC), which represents about 15% of
lung cancer. In 2012, the estimated new cases and deaths from all lung cancer in the U.S. were 226,160 and 160,340, respectively. The overall five-year relative survival rate for the
period of 2002 to 2008 for patients with lung cancer was 15.9%. The five-year relative survival rate varies markedly depending on the stage at diagnosis, from 52% to 25% to 4% for patients
with local, regional and metastatic disease, respectively. 
Patients
with resectable disease may be cured by surgery or surgery plus adjuvant chemotherapy. Local control can be achieved with radiation therapy in a large number of patients with unresectable
disease, but a cure is seen only in a small number of patients. Patients with locally advanced, unresectable disease may have long-term survival with radiation therapy combined with
chemotherapy. Patients with advanced metastatic disease may achieve improved survival and palliation of symptoms with chemotherapy, however metastatic NSCLC remains a fatal disease. 
Market
growth of NSCLC drug therapies is expected to grow annually by 2.5% from $4.2 billion in 2010 to $5.4 billion in 2020. Generic price erosion of key agents such as
Alimta® (pemetrexed) we believe will be offset by the recent approval by the FDA of Xalkori® (crizotinib), which is a targeted therapy utilizing the anaplastic lymphoma kinase
biomarker, and the anticipated introduction of several novel classes of agents. 
The
need for more effective and less toxic therapies as alternatives to or in combination with chemotherapy has led to the investigation of targeted therapies. Mutations in the KRAS gene are
amongst the most common mutations in NSCLC, being found in 20% to 25% of patients. Typically, KRAS mutations activate the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway, contributing to unregulated cell growth and survival.
Therapies that target this aberrant pathway, including MEK inhibitors, would therefore be expected to have therapeutic activity in patients with mutated KRAS. Promising data from a double-blind,
randomized Phase 2 study comparing the efficacy of selumetinib, a MEK inhibitor we licensed to AstraZeneca, in combination with docetaxel versus docetaxel alone in second-line
patients with KRAS mutation-positive locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC were presented at the 2012 ASCO Annual Meeting. This study showed statistically significant improvement in
progression-free survival, objective response rate, and alive and progression-free at six months as well as a trend for improvement in overall survival in favor of selumetinib
in combination with docetaxel versus docetaxel alone. 
 Melanoma (MEK162 and Selumetinib — MEK inhibitors)  
Melanoma is the deadliest form of skin cancer. The number of new malignant melanoma cases has been increasing substantially over the past
30 years and at a rate which is among the fastest growing of any human cancer. According to the American Cancer Society, the estimated new cases and deaths from melanoma in the U.S. in 2012 are
76,250 and 9,180, respectively. Prognosis is heavily dependent upon stage of the disease. The outlook for patients with metastatic disease is poor, with the five-year survival rate of
approximately 16%. 
22



 
Table of Contents
The
optimal treatment for melanoma varies with the stage of the disease. In patients with early disease, surgical excision is the treatment of choice with some of these patients receiving adjuvant
therapy with interferon alfa (IFNa). Surgical excision of limited distant metastatic disease can occasionally produce durable benefit, but most patients with distant metastases require systemic
therapy. Systemic therapies include chemotherapy and immunotherapy, used either alone or in combination. 
Market
growth of melanoma drug therapies is expected to be strong, with sales across the seven major pharmaceutical markets forecasted to grow annually by 22% from $210 million in 2010 to
$1.5 billion in 2020. This forecasted growth is driven largely by recent and anticipated launches of several novel, high-priced therapies expected to capture substantial market
share over time. 
Mutations
that activate the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway are common in melanoma, with BRAF mutations in 40% to 60%, and NRAS mutations in 15-20% of melanoma patients, suggesting the therapeutic
potential for agents that target this pathway in melanoma. Following Roche's launch of the BRAF inhibitor Zelboraf (vemurafenib) in 2011, several additional therapies that target this pathway are
under study. Included amongst these are several MEK inhibitors. As MEK inhibitors target the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway which is activated with BRAF mutation, they may also have the potential for
activity not only in patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma, but also in patients with tumors that harbor mutations in the NRAS gene, who currently have no adequate treatment option and poor
prognosis. Promising data on MEK162 in an ongoing Phase 2 trial of patients with BRAF and NRAS mutated advanced melanoma was presented at the 2012 ASCO Annual Meeting. MEK162 showed clinical
activity and good tolerability in this patient population. This is the first targeted therapy to show activity in patients with NRAS mutated melanoma. 
 Thyroid Cancer (Selumetinib — MEK inhibitor)  
Thyroid cancer has become the fastest-increasing cancer in the U.S. with estimates of 56,460 new cases and 1,780 deaths in 2012. The rapid increase
in incidence rates is thought to be largely due to increased and earlier detection. Thyroid cancer strikes relatively young patients, with most initial diagnoses between ages 20 and 54, and occurs 2
to 3 times more often in women than in men, placing it as the fifth most common malignancy diagnosed in women. 
Most
thyroid cancers can be treated successfully with an overall 5-year survival rate of 96%. However, even when therapy is successful, the disease remains burdensome and potentially
lethal: patients must be tested routinely for the rest of their life, with as many as 35% of thyroid cancers recurring, one third of which occur more than 10 years after initial treatment. 
In
disease that has not metastasized, partial or total surgical excision of the thyroid gland is the primary treatment, followed by radioiodine therapy, or RAI, to kill off residual cancer cells, and
usually thyroid hormone suppression therapy for maintenance to prevent recurrence. For metastatic disease, RAI is the leading therapeutic option. However, a significant number of patients have disease
not receptive to RAI therapy, or RAI-refractory disease, and have few effective treatment alternatives. This remains a significant unmet need, as distant metastases are the most frequent
cause of death for patients with papillary or follicular thyroid cancers which account for 90% of thyroid tumors, and decreased RAI incorporation into metastatic sites has been shown to be associated
with higher mortality. 
Novel
therapies that target the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway and specific molecular abnormalities such as BRAF and NRAS mutations have a strong scientific underpinning for activity in this disease, with
BRAF mutations in approximately 39%, and NRAS mutations in approximately 7% of thyroid cancers. In a recent pilot study, selumetinib has shown positive therapeutic activity in patients with
RAI-refractory 
23



 
Table of Contents
disease.
Based on these early results, we believe selumetinib has the potential to treat patients with RAI-refractory thyroid cancer. 
 Pain and Inflammatory Diseases Market  
Pain and inflammation are closely interrelated, yet present distinct challenges and opportunities. Pain remains one of the most pressing as well as
largest therapeutic areas to address, including a wide spectrum of acute, sub-acute and chronic pain conditions ranging from acute postoperative pain to chronic osteoarthritis pain.
Although well established, the pain field continues to evolve and specialize, as the etiology of pain is recognized as being increasingly complex. Many medications, procedures and devices are marketed
to address different forms of pain exist, yet pain remains an area of significant unmet need. In recent years, with the exception of the introduction of antidepressant drugs such as
Cymbalta® (duloxetine) and the antiepileptics Neurontin® (gabapentin) and Lyrica® (pregabalin), drug development in pain has been rather limited. Instead, drug
development has focused largely around reformulations and alternate delivery mechanisms to provide improved safety/tolerability/drug abuse prevention among the leading existing classes of opioids and
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs. 
Inflammation
is a natural biologic response to injury or infection that, under normal conditions, resolves during healing or clearing. Unregulated inflammation results in a broad range of conditions,
most of which are classified by the tissue or organ where the inflammation occurs. These conditions include: respiratory diseases such as asthma, allergic rhinitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease; dermatological conditions such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis; gastrointestinal disorders such as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis; musculoskeletal disorders such as
rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, gout and spondyloarthropathies such as psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis. Similar to the pain market, there are a wide range of drug
treatment options and delivery mechanisms depending on the specific condition. Yet even in acknowledged "crowded" disease areas such as asthma, there still remains significant unmet need in specific
populations such as those with severe, refractory and difficult-to-control asthma. 
 Pain (ARRY-797 — p38 inhibitor)  
Patients are treated for almost 320 million cases per year of acute and sub-acute pain in the U.S. alone. Acute and
sub-acute pain occurs under a broad set of circumstances including bone fractures, postoperative pain in planned surgical or trauma/emergency settings, severe migraine attacks, arthritis
flares, and breakthrough cancer pain. For example, surgical patients typically experience moderate to severe pain up to a few weeks after the procedure. 
Chronic
pain presents perhaps an even more significant burden, with about half of all adults experiencing chronic pain in their lifetime. According to a recent report to the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services by the Institute of Medicine, chronic pain affects an estimated 116 million adults in the U.S. and costs the nation up to $635 billion per year in medical treatment
and lost productivity. Chronic pain, variously defined as a pain condition which persists or recurs for a duration of greater than three or greater than six months depending on the specific condition,
includes a wide range of conditions including arthritic pain, inflammatory pain, chronic low back pain, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain (e.g., post-herpetic neuralgia, painful
diabetic neuropathy), chronic headache, and cancer pain. 
The
major analgesic pain therapies currently on the market, including opioids, NSAIDs and selective COX-2 inhibitors, have side effect and efficacy issues. Opioids are the most commonly
prescribed drug class in the U.S., with 15% to 20% of doctor visits involving an opioid prescription, and four million Americans per year prescribed a long-acting opioid. Opioids are
efficacious in the management of pain, 
24



 
Table of Contents
but
have considerable side effects including nausea, vomiting, constipation, respiratory depression and cognitive dysfunction. Perhaps even more significant, opioid drug abuse is a major concern.
Since 1999, deaths in the U.S. involving opioids have more than tripled to 14,800 in 2008, accounting for over 40% of all drug poisoning deaths. In addition, for every unintentional overdose death
related to an opioid analgesic, nine persons are admitted for substance abuse treatment, 35 visit emergency departments, 161 report drug abuse or dependence, and 461 report nonmedical uses of opioid
analgesics. NSAIDs have demonstrated pain reduction which is modest but less efficacious than opioids. Although NSAIDs have overall a more favorable safety profile than opioids, renal toxicity and
gastrointestinal bleeding are associated with their use. COX-2 inhibitors, though possibly offering less gastrointestinal toxicity than NSAIDs, still result in other side effects
associated with NSAIDs, most notably adverse cardiovascular effects. Most drugs in this class have been withdrawn from the U.S. market, with the notable exception of Celebrex® (celecoxib). 
Market
growth of drug therapies used in acute, sub-acute and chronic pain settings is expected to be moderate. Sales across the seven major pharmaceutical markets for acute and
sub-acute pain are forecasted to grow annually by 3% from $17.4 billion in 2010 to $22.1 billion in 2018. Sales for chronic pain are forecasted to grow annually by 4% from
$21.1 billion in 2010 to $29.0 billion in 2018. 
Few
innovative pain therapeutics have successfully emerged from clinical development in recent years. We believe there is an opportunity for a novel drug with efficacy comparable to opioids, NSAIDs
and COX-2 inhibitors for the treatment of patients who are intolerant of or refractory to these classes of drugs. Further, there is an opportunity in several inflammatory pain conditions
affecting large populations, such as RA and ankylosing spondylitis, to offer additional pain relief over and above what current targeted therapeutics, such as tumor necrosis factor alpha, or
TNFa, inhibitors, may provide. 
Array
is currently developing ARRY-797, a p38 inhibitor. p38 is well-known for its role in the regulation of the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as
TNF and IL-1, as well as PGE2, a significant pain modifier. Based on several past clinical studies and positive results from the recently completed 28-day study evaluating the
analgesic efficacy of ARRY-797 in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee despite the use of NSAIDs, we believe ARRY-797 has good potential to treat a broad range
of pain conditions in acute and chronic settings. 
 Asthma (ARRY-502 — CRTh2 antagonist)  
Asthma is a chronic condition of the airways that currently poses one of the more significant public health burdens. According to the American Lung
Association, in 2009 an estimated 25 million individuals have asthma, resulting in approximately 3,500 deaths per year and nearly $56 billion in medical treatment and lost productivity. 
Asthma
is a heterogeneous disease, caused by a combination of environmental and genetic factors, which can wax and wane, with varying frequency and severity among individual patients. The majority of
asthma patients suffer from allergic asthma, whereby the patient's immune system produces an exaggerated response to allergens (e.g. pollens, pets, dust). This type of asthma is often termed
Th2-mediated asthma (T-helper 2 cells). Mast cells, activated by IgE, release histamine and various other mediators that cause immediate bronchospasm, or a constriction of the
muscles of the airway walls, and vasoconstriction, or narrowing of bronchial blood vessels, thereby resulting in coughing and difficulty breathing. Mast cells also promote tissue damage in the airways
through release of other mediators, notably cytokines, chemokines, and prostanoids such as the mediator prostaglandin D2, or PGD2, which
results in the attraction of more inflammatory cells to the lungs. In severe allergic asthma, there is emerging evidence suggesting that a greater presence of PGD2 and an upregulation of CRTh2, the
biologically relevant receptor for PGD2-mediated allergic disease that is expressed on Th2 cells, 
25



 
Table of Contents
lymphocytes,
eosinophils and basophils, may play a particularly important role in more pronounced symptoms and impairment of lung function. 
Currently,
for chronic treatment of asthma and other respiratory tract diseases, there are a wide range of treatment options with a variety of delivery mechanisms, each of which has drawbacks. Most
notably, safety concerns have arisen with inhaled long-acting beta-2 agonists, or LABAs, and the FDA has required producers of LABAs to describe these concerns on their labels
and to conduct further large-scale randomized trials evaluating cardiac safety. These concerns impact the leading class of LABA/ICS, or inhaled corticosteroid, combination therapies as well. The
LABA/ICS combination is under further pressure due to physician concerns about potential side effects and the long-term safety of ICS. The safety concerns with existing therapies and the
number of asthmatics with uncontrolled disease represent a significant unmet medical need. 
Current
forecasts for asthma drug therapy market growth are flat-to-slightly-declining, with sales across the seven major pharmaceutical markets forecasted to shrink annually
by less than 1% from $14.6 billion in 2010 to $14.1 billion in 2020. This outlook is based on the lack of any new blockbuster drug class entering the market and a potential softening of
the use of LABAs in the U.S. in the short term, and ongoing price erosion due to generic entry and competitive pricing in current therapies. This will be offset somewhat by an expected uptake of
once-daily LABA/ICS combination agents, once approved, and likely increased insurance coverage and expenditures due to healthcare policy changes likely to take place in the U.S. from 2014
onward. 
Although
there are a number of drug classes being explored for the treatment of asthma, there are currently no approved drugs directly targeting PGD2 or CRTh2. Array is developing a novel oral drug,
ARRY-502, an antagonist of the CRTh2 receptor, which, if proven safe and effective, could allow for targeted treatment for patients with the Th2 marker across the asthma severity spectrum,
particularly those with severe disease, who currently have few, if any, options for effective treatment. 
 Research and Development for Proprietary Drug Discovery  
Our primary research efforts are centered on the treatment of cancer and inflammatory disease. Our research focuses on biologic functions, or
pathways, that have been identified as important in the treatment of human disease based on human clinical, genetic or preclinical data. Within these pathways, we seek to create
first-in-class drugs regulating important therapeutic targets to treat patients with serious or life-threatening conditions, primarily in cancer and inflammatory
disease. In addition, we seek to identify opportunities to improve upon existing therapies or drugs in clinical development by creating clinical candidates with superior, or
best-in-class, drug characteristics, including efficacy, tolerability or dosing to provide safer, more effective drugs. During fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, we spent
$56.7 million, $63.5 million and $72.5 million, respectively, on research and development for proprietary drug discovery, which consist of costs associated with our proprietary
drug programs for, among other things, salaries and benefits for scientific personnel, consulting and outsourced services, laboratory supplies, allocated facilities costs and depreciation. 
 Drug Discovery and Development Timeline  
The drug development process is highly uncertain, is subject to a number of risks that are beyond our control and takes many years to complete. The
following table outlines each phase in the drug 
26



 
Table of Contents
development
process. Completion times are difficult to estimate and can vary greatly based on the drug and indication. Therefore, the duration times shown in the table below are estimates only. 













Phase 
 
Objective 
 
Estimated Duration 


Discovery
 
Lead identification and target validation
 
2 to 4 years


Preclinical
 
Initial toxicology for preliminary identification of risks for humans; gather early pharmacokinetic data
 
1 to 2 years


Phase 1
 
Evaluate the safety and tolerability of the drug in human subjects and find the maximum tolerated dose. The pharmacokinetics of the drug are examined after single and multiple doses, the effects of food on the
pharmacokinetics may be evaluated and drug metabolites may be monitored.
 
1 to 2 years


Phase 2
 
Establish effectiveness of the drug and its optimal dosage; continue safety evaluation
 
2 to 4 years


Phase 3
 
Confirm efficacy, dosage regime and safety profile of the drug; submit New Drug Application
 
2 to 4 years


FDA Approval
 
Approval by the FDA to sell and market the drug under approved labeling
 
8 months to 2 years




Animal
and other non-clinical studies are often conducted during each phase of human clinical studies. Proof-of concept for a drug candidate generally occurs during
Phase 2, after initial safety and efficacy data are established. 
 Our Research and Development Technologies and Expertise  
We are continuing to improve our comprehensive research and development capabilities, consisting of four integrated areas of
expertise:


•Discovery Research — Biology, Pharmacology, Toxicology, Chemistry and Translational Medicine  
•Process Research, Development, Formulation and Manufacturing 
•Clinical Development — Clinical Science, Clinical Operations, Drug Safety, Translational Medicine,
Biostatistics & Data Management, Regulatory Affairs and Program Management 
•Information Technology 

 Discovery Research  
We have a broad drug discovery platform with all the necessary capabilities to efficiently invent new chemical compounds. We continue to add to our
breadth of knowledge, refine our processes and hire key scientists who enhance our current capabilities. We have expanded our translational medicine team, 
27



 
Table of Contents
which
designs and runs mechanistic studies in cell biology and pharmacology to provide insight into clinical development strategy, product differentiation and biomarker support for clinical
development. To date, our average cost to invent a new chemical entity and file an IND application is $17.9 million, compared to estimates of up to $100 million spent by major
pharmaceutical companies. Our discovery group has created high quality clinical candidates with every wholly-owned and to our knowledge, every partnered, drug to reach the clinic to date having been
shown to modulate its mechanistic target, as measured by an appropriate clinical biomarker. 
 Process Research, Development, Formulation and Manufacturing  
We have built and we continue to enhance our process research and development and cGMP manufacturing capabilities to accommodate the productivity of
our research platform and support our clinical development plans. Our capabilities include formulations, physical form characterization and aspects of clinical supply manufacturing. 
 Clinical Development  
Our current key capabilities within clinical development include clinical science, clinical operations, clinical pharmacology, safety monitoring,
biostatistics, programming and data management, regulatory strategy and program management. This group leads the development and implementation of our clinical and regulatory strategies. The clinical
group designs, directs and implements all clinical operations, including identifying and selecting clinical investigators, recruiting study subjects to participate in our clinical trials,
biostatistics, data management, drug safety evaluation and adverse event reporting. The clinical group also is responsible for ensuring that our development programs are conducted in compliance with
applicable regulatory requirements. The group also works closely with the cross functional project and clinical teams to facilitate the appropriate and efficient development of our diverse product
pipeline. 
Our
near term focus is on bringing our most promising drugs through proof-of-concept clinical trials. Our proof-of-concept strategy is to efficiently
conduct studies to demonstrate the value of each program in a therapeutic area so that decisions to continue, modify or cease development of a program can be made early in the development process. We
believe that our broad development pipeline and productive discovery platform provide an incentive to design trials for each program with high hurdles to demonstrate the potential of the drug or to
"fail early." 
 Information Technology  
We believe that our information technology, or IT, capabilities provide a competitive advantage in each aspect of our business. Our IT capabilities
are essential to increasing our productivity through capturing, organizing and providing appropriate information to improve decision-making. We accomplished our goal of creating a paperless discovery
research environment, which has empowered our scientists to improve real time decision-making at the bench. Array has
completed a clinical information system that parallels the comprehensive capabilities of our discovery system, providing company-wide access to real-time information for each
clinical trial as well as the entire drug portfolio. In addition to real-time study data, the system's information includes planned and actual screening/enrollment at the site level,
budget and actual costs by types of activities, important events and milestones. 
28




 











Table of Contents 
 Competitors  
The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by rapid and continuous technological innovation. We compete with companies
worldwide that are engaged in the research and discovery, licensing, development and commercialization of drug candidates, including large pharmaceutical companies with internal discovery and
development functions, biotech companies with competing products in the therapeutic areas we are targeting and contract research organizations that perform many of the functions we perform under our
collaborations. In addition, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies seeking to out-license drugs targeting the same disease class or condition as our
drug candidates are based on, among other things, patent position, product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, patient convenience, price and reimbursement potential. Therefore, we may be
unable to enter into collaboration, partnering, or out-licensing agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We also compete with other clinical trials for patients who are
eligible to be enrolled in clinical trials we or our collaborators are conducting, which may limit the number of
patients who meet the criteria for enrollment and delay or prevent us or our collaborators from completing trials when anticipated. Because the timing of entry of a drug in the market presents
important competitive advantages, the speed with which we are able to complete drug development and clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of drugs to the market
will affect our competitive position. Some of our competitors have a broader range of capabilities and have greater access to financial, technical, scientific, regulatory, business development,
recruiting and other resources than we do. Their access to greater resources may allow them to develop processes or products that are more effective, safer or less costly, or gain greater market
acceptance, than products we develop or for which they obtain FDA approval more rapidly than we do. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the
market and advanced technologies become available. 
 Government Regulation  
Biopharmaceutical companies are subject to substantial regulation by governmental agencies in the U.S. and other countries. Virtually all
pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulation by FDA, including regulations that govern the testing, manufacturing, distribution, safety,
efficacy, approval, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting, advertising and promotion of such products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and its implementing regulations, and by
comparable agencies and laws in foreign countries. Prescription drug products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other approval procedures by the FDA and by foreign
regulatory agencies. The FDA must approve any new drug, including a new dosage form or new use of a previously approved drug, prior to marketing in the United States. All applications for FDA approval
must contain, among other things, information relating to safety and efficacy, pharmaceutical formulation, stability, manufacturing, processing, packaging, labeling and quality control information.
The preclinical and clinical testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that the FDA will grant approval for any of our product
candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Before an application requesting FDA approval for a new drug product is submitted to the FDA, three phases of human clinical trials are usually conducted to
test the safety and effectiveness of the product. Phase 1 clinical trials most typically involve testing the drug on a small number of healthy volunteers to assess the safety profile of the
drug at different dosage levels. Phase 2 clinical trials, which may also enroll a relatively small number of patient volunteers, are designed to further evaluate the drug's safety profile and
to provide preliminary data as to the drug's effectiveness in humans. Phase 3 clinical trials consist of larger, well-controlled studies that may involve several hundred or even
several thousand patient volunteers representing the drug's targeted population. In addition, biopharmaceutical companies may elect to conduct, or be required by the FDA to conduct, Phase 4
clinical trials to further assess the drug's safety or effectiveness after approval. Such post approval trials are typically referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials. During any of these phases,
the clinical trial can be placed on clinical hold, or temporarily or 
29



 
Table of Contents
permanently
stopped for a variety of reasons, principally for safety concerns. In addition, the failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the U.S., including Good Clinical
Practices, or GCP, and in other countries in which we conduct development activities could result in failure to obtain approval, as well as a variety of fines and sanctions, such as warning letters,
product recalls, product seizures, suspension of operations, fines and civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 
Biopharmaceutical
companies must submit the results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials to the FDA as part of a new drug application, or NDA. NDAs must also contain
extensive information relating to the product's pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things. The approval process is time-consuming and
expensive and there are no assurances that approval will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Even if regulatory approvals are granted, a marketed product is subject to comprehensive requirements
under federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. Post-marketing requirements include reporting adverse events, recordkeeping and compliance with cGMP and marketing requirements.
Adverse events reported after marketing of a drug can result in additional restrictions being placed on the use of a drug and, possibly, in withdrawal of the drug from the market. The FDA or similar
agencies in other countries may also require labeling changes to products at any time based on new safety information. 
If
drug candidates we develop are approved for commercial marketing under a New Drug Application, or NDA, by the FDA, they would be subject to the provisions of the Drug Price Competition and Patent
Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the "Hatch-Waxman Act." The Hatch-Waxman Act provides companies with marketing exclusivity for new chemical entities and allows companies to apply to extend
patent protection for up to five additional years. It also provides a means for approving generic versions of a drug product once the marketing exclusivity period has ended and all relevant patents
have expired (or have been successfully challenged and defeated). The period of exclusive marketing may be shortened, however, by a successful patent challenge. The laws of other key markets likewise
create both opportunities for exclusivity periods and patent protections and the possibility of generic competition once such periods or protections either have reached expiry or have been
successfully challenged by generic entrants. 
All
facilities and manufacturing processes used in the production of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients for clinical use in the U.S. must be operated in conformity with cGMP as established by the FDA.
Our production takes place at a manufacturing facility that complies with cGMP, which allows us to produce cGMP compliant compounds. In our facility, we have the capacity to produce Active
Pharmaceutical Ingredients for early clinical testing. We have validated this capability for compliance with FDA regulations and began our first cGMP manufacturing campaign in 2002. Our cGMP facility
is subject to periodic regulatory inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP requirements. We could also be required to comply with specific requirements or specifications of other countries or of our
collaborators, which may be more stringent than FDA regulatory requirements and which can delay timely progress in our clinical development programs. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations,
the FDA could require us to cease ongoing research or disqualify the data submitted to regulatory authorities. Other countries have similar regulatory powers. A finding
that we had materially violated cGMP requirements could result in additional regulatory sanctions and, in severe cases, could result in a mandated closing of our cGMP facility, which would materially
and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
In
the course of our business, we handle, store and dispose of chemicals and biological samples. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use,
manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. These environmental laws generally impose liability regardless of the negligence or fault of a party and may
expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others. 
30



 
Table of Contents
Most
health care providers, including research institutions from whom we or our collaborators obtain patient information, are subject to privacy and security rules under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA and the recent amendments to HIPAA under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH. Additionally, strict
personal privacy laws in other countries affect pharmaceutical companies' activities in other countries. Such laws include the EU Directive 95/46-EC on the protection of individuals with
regard to the processing of personal data as well as individual EU Member States, implementing laws and additional laws. Although our clinical development efforts are not barred by these privacy
regulations, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider that has not satisfied HIPAA's or the EU's
disclosure standards. Failure by EU clinical trial partners to obey requirements of national laws on private personal data, including laws implementing the EU Data Protection Directive, might result
in liability and/or adverse publicity. In addition, certain privacy laws and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on
the use and dissemination of individuals' health information. 
Our
clinical development activities involve the production and use of intermediate and bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API. We frequently contract with third-party manufacturers to produce
larger quantities of API for us. Some of these manufacturers are located outside the U.S. and may obtain ingredients from suppliers in other foreign countries before shipping the bulk API to Array in
the U.S. Cross-border shipments of pharmaceutical ingredients and products are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the FDA and in foreign jurisdictions, including, in the EU, under laws adopted by
the EU Member States implementing the Community Code on Medicinal Products Directive 2001/83, as amended. These regulations generally impose various requirements on us and/or our third-party
manufacturers. In some cases, for example in the EU, there are cGMP requirements that exceed the requirements of the FDA. In other cases, we must provide confirmation that we are registered with the
FDA and have either a Notice of Claimed Investigational Exemption for a New Drug or Investigational New Drug Application (IND) application, an approved New Drug Application or an approved Biologics
License Application. Third party manufacturers may lack capacity to meet our needs go out of business or fail to perform. In addition, supplies of raw
materials needed for manufacturing or formulation of clinical supplies may not be available or in shorty supply. 
We
are subject to other regulations, including regulations under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or USDA, and regulations under
other federal, state and local laws. Violations of any of these requirements could result in penalties being assessed against us. 
 Intellectual Property  
Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our potential drug candidates, other intellectual property rights and our proprietary software
technologies. To establish and protect our proprietary technologies and products, we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality provisions
in our contracts with collaborators. 
We
attempt to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, third parties and consultants. Our employees also sign agreements requiring that they assign to
us their interests in inventions, original expressions and any corresponding patents and copyrights arising from their work for us. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached,
invalidated or rendered unenforceable and if so, we may not have an adequate remedy available. Despite the measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property, parties to our agreements may
breach the confidentiality provisions or infringe or misappropriate our patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. In addition, third parties may independently
discover or invent competing technologies 
31



 
Table of Contents
or
reverse-engineer our trade secrets or other technology. The failure of our employees, our consultants or third parties to maintain secrecy of our drug discovery and development efforts may
compromise or prevent our ability to obtain patent coverage for our invention. 
Our
patent strategy is designed to protect inventions, technology and improvements to inventions that are commercially important to our business. We have numerous U.S. patents and patent applications
on file with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and around the world. The source
code for our proprietary software programs is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work. 
U.S.
patents issued from applications filed on or after June 8, 1995, have a term of 20 years from the application filing date or earlier claimed priority. All of our patent applications
were filed after June 8, 1995. Patents in most other countries have a term of 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application. Because the time from filing patent applications
to issuance of patents is often several years, this process may result in a period of patent protection significantly shorter than 20 years, which may adversely affect our ability to exclude
competitors from our markets. Currently, none of our patents covering drugs currently under development will expire prior to 2023. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to develop
proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patent coverage for these products and technologies. We intend to continue to file patent applications covering newly developed products and
technologies. We may not, however, commercialize the technology underlying any or all of our existing or future patent applications. 
Patents
provide some degree of protection for our proprietary technology. However, the pursuit and assertion of patent rights, particularly in areas like pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, involve
complex legal and factual determinations and, therefore, are characterized by some uncertainty. In addition, the laws governing patentability and the scope of patent coverage continue to evolve,
particularly in biotechnology. As a result, patents may not be issued from any of our patent applications or from applications licensed to us. The scope of any of our patents, if issued, may not be
sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. In addition, our patents or patents licensed to us, if they are issued, may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered
unenforceable so that our patent rights might not create an effective competitive barrier. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do
the laws of the U.S. Any patents issued to us or our strategic partners may not provide a legal basis for establishing an exclusive market for our products or provide us with any competitive
advantages. Moreover, the patents held by others may adversely affect our ability to do business or to continue to use our technologies freely. In view of these factors, our intellectual property
positions bear some degree of uncertainty. 
 Employees  
As of June 30, 2012, we had 250 full-time employees, including 137 scientists and 49 clinical and regulatory employees, of whom 69
have PhDs or MDs. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and we consider our employee relations to be good. 
 Our Corporate Information  
Our principal executive offices are located at 3200 Walnut Street, Boulder, Colorado 80301 and our phone number is (303) 381-6600.
We were founded in 1998 and became a public company in November 2000. Our stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "ARRY." 
32



 
Table of Contents
 Available Information  
Electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and other documents we file with or furnish to the SEC are available free of charge (i) on the "Investor Relations" section of our website at
http://www.arraybiopharma.com or (ii) by sending a written request to Investor Relations at our corporate headquarters. Information on our website is not
incorporated by reference into this report. 
Additionally,
the documents we file or furnish with the SEC are available free of charge at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington D.C. 20549, or can be accessed free
of charge on the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Other information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at
(800) SEC-0330. 
 
 
  ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS     
In addition to the other factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in other reports we file with the SEC, the following factors could cause our
actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us
or that we currently deem
immaterial may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks occur, it could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as
cause the value of our common stock to decline. 
 Risks Related to Our Business  
 If we need but are unable to obtain additional funding to support our operations, we could be required to reduce our research and development activities or curtail our
operations and it may lead to uncertainty about our ability to continue to operate as a going concern.  
We have expended substantial funds to discover and develop our drug candidates and additional substantial funds will be required for further
development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials, of any product candidates we develop internally. Additional funds will be required to manufacture and market any products we own or
retain rights to that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of our products is uncertain, we are unable to precisely estimate the actual funds we will require to develop
and potentially commercialize them. 
We
have historically funded our operations from up-front fees and milestone payments received under our collaborations and out-license transactions, the issuance and sale of
equity securities and through debt provided by our credit facilities. We believe that the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of June 30, 2012 will enable us to continue to fund
operations in the normal course of business for at least the next 12 months. However, we will continue to depend on funding our operations from these sources for the foreseeable future. Our
ability to obtain additional funding when needed, changes to our operating plans, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our planned research and
development activities or expenditures, increased expenses or other events may affect our need for additional capital in the future and may require us to seek additional funding sooner than
anticipated. 
Our
ability to successfully raise sufficient funds through the sale of debt or equity securities when needed is subject to many risks and uncertainties and, even if we are successful, future equity
issuances would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. We also may not successfully consummate new collaborations that provide for additional up-front fees or milestone payments
or we may not earn milestone payments under such collaborations when anticipated or at all. Our ability to realize milestone 
33



 
Table of Contents
or
royalty payments under existing collaboration agreements and to enter into new partnering arrangements that generate additional revenue through up-front fees and milestone or royalty
payments is subject to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate enough revenue from our existing or new collaborations when needed or secure additional
sources of funding, we may be forced to reduce our current rate of research and development spending or to curtail our operations significantly. These events may result in an inability to maintain a
level of liquidity necessary to continue operating our business and the loss of all or a part of the investment of our stockholders in our common stock. In addition, if we are unable to maintain
certain levels of cash and marketable securities, our obligations under our credit facilities with Deerfield and our loan agreement with Comerica Bank may be accelerated. 
 We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability.  
We have incurred significant operating and net losses and negative cash flows from operations since our inception. As of June 30, 2012, we had
an accumulated deficit of $570.7 million. We had net losses of $23.6 million, $56.3 million, and $77.6 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively. We expect to incur additional losses and negative cash flows in the future, and these losses may continue or increase in part due to anticipated levels of expenses for research and
development, particularly clinical development and expansion of our clinical and scientific capabilities to support ongoing development of our programs. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or
maintain profitability. 
 We may not receive royalty or milestone revenue under our collaboration agreements for several years, or at all.  
Much of our current revenue is non-recurring in nature and unpredictable as to timing and amount. Several of our out-license
and collaboration agreements provide for royalties on product sales. However, because none of our drug candidates have been approved for commercial sale, our drug candidates are at early stages of
development and drug development entails a high risk of failure, we do not expect to receive any royalty revenue for several years, if at all. For the same reasons, we may never realize much of the
milestone revenue provided for in our out-license and collaboration agreements. Similarly, drugs we select to commercialize ourselves or partner for later-stage co-development
and commercialization may not generate revenue for several years, or at all. 
 We may not be successful in entering into additional out-license agreements on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our liquidity or require us to change
our spending priorities on our proprietary programs.  
We are committing significant resources to create our own proprietary drug candidates and to build a commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company. We
have built our clinical and discovery programs through spending $520.8 million from our inception through June 30, 2012. In fiscal 2012, we spent $56.7 million in research and
development for proprietary programs, compared to $63.5 million and $72.5 million for fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our proprietary drug discovery programs are in their early
stage of development and are unproven. Our ability to continue to fund our planned spending on our proprietary drug programs and in building our commercial capabilities depends to a large degree on
up-front fees, milestone payments and other revenue we receive as a result of our partnered programs. To date, we have entered into nine out-licensing agreements for the
development and commercialization of our drug candidates, and we plan to continue initiatives during fiscal 2013 to partner select clinical candidates to obtain additional capital. 
34




 










Table of Contents 
We may not be successful, however, in entering into additional out-licensing agreements with favorable terms, including up-front, milestone, royalty
and/or license payments and the retention of certain valuable commercialization or co-promote rights, as a result of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors
include:


•our ability to create valuable proprietary drugs targeting large market opportunities; •research and spending priorities of potential
licensing partners; •willingness of and the resources available to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to in-license drug
candidates to fill their clinical pipelines; •the success or failure, and timing, of pre-clinical and clinical trials for our proprietary programs we intend
to out-license; or •our ability or inability to generate proof-of-concept data and to agree with a potential partner
on the value of proprietary drug candidates we are seeking to out-license, or on the related terms. 

If
we are unable to enter into out-licensing agreements and realize milestone, license and/or up-front fees when anticipated, it may adversely affect our liquidity and we may
be forced to curtail or delay development of all or some of our proprietary programs, which in turn may harm our business and the value of our stock. In addition, insufficient funds may require us to
relinquish greater rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms to us or our stockholders than we would otherwise choose to obtain funding for our
operations. 
 We may not out-license our proprietary programs at the most appropriate time to maximize the total value or return of these programs to us.  
A critical aspect of our business strategy is to out-license drug candidates for further development, co-development and/or
commercialization to obtain the highest possible value while also evaluating earlier out-licensing opportunities to maximize our risk-adjusted return on our investment in
proprietary research. Because the costs and risk of failure of bringing a drug to market are high, the value of out-licensing a drug candidate generally increases as it successfully
progresses through clinical trials. 
We
may choose or be forced to out-license a drug candidate or program on terms that require us to relinquish commercial or market rights or at a point in the research and development
process that does not provide as great a value or return than what might have been obtained if we had further developed the candidate or program internally. Likewise, we may decline, or be unable to
obtain favorable, early out-licensing opportunities in programs that do not result in a commercially viable drug, which could leave the resulting program with little or no value even
though significant resources were invested in its development. Our inability to successfully out-license our programs on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our results of
operations and cash flows. 
 Our drug candidates are at early stages of development and we may not successfully develop a drug candidate that becomes a commercially viable drug.  
The drug discovery and development process is highly uncertain and we have not developed, and may never develop, a drug candidate that ultimately
leads to a commercially viable drug. All of our most advanced drug candidates are in the early stages of development, in either Phase 1 or Phase 2, and we do not have any drugs approved
for commercial sale. Before a drug product is approved by the FDA, for commercial marketing, it is tested for safety and effectiveness in clinical trials that can take up to six years or longer.
Promising results in preclinical development or early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of pharmaceutical companies have experienced
significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier preclinical and clinical trials. At any time, we, the FDA or an Institutional Review Board may place
a clinical trial on 
35



 
Table of Contents
clinical
hold, or temporarily or permanently stop the trial, for a variety of reasons, principally for safety concerns. We or our collaborators may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as
a result of, the clinical development process that could delay or prevent our drug candidates from being approved, including:


•failure to achieve clinical trial results that indicate a candidate is effective in treating a specified condition or
illness in humans; •presence of harmful side effects; •determination by the FDA that the submitted data do not satisfy the
criteria for approval; •lack of commercial viability of the drug; •failure to acquire, on reasonable terms, intellectual
property rights necessary for commercialization; and •existence of therapeutics that are more effective. 

 We or our collaborators may choose not to commercialize a drug candidate at any time during development, which would reduce or eliminate our potential return on investment
for that drug.  
At any time, we or our collaborators may decide to discontinue the development of a drug candidate or not to commercialize a candidate. If we
terminate a program in which we have invested significant resources, we will not receive any return on our investment and we will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to
potentially more productive uses. If one of our collaborators terminates a program, we will not receive any future milestone payments or royalties relating to that program under our collaboration
agreement with that party. Even if one of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval for marketing, physicians or consumers may not find that its effectiveness, ease of use, side effect profile,
cost or other factors make it effective in treating disease or more beneficial than or preferable to other drugs on the market. Additionally, third-party payors, such as government health plans and
health insurance plans or maintenance organizations, may choose not to include our drugs on their formulary lists for reimbursement. As a result, our drugs may not be used or may be used only for
restricted applications. 
 Our capital requirements could significantly increase if we choose to develop more of our proprietary programs internally.  
We believe that the maximum value for certain proprietary drug candidates is best achieved by retaining the rights to develop and commercialize the
candidate and not seeking a partner or by waiting until later in the development process to seek a partner to co-develop and commercialize or co-promote a product. It is
difficult to predict which of our proprietary programs are likely to yield higher returns if we elect to develop them further before seeking a partner or to not seek a partner at all as a result of
many factors, including the competitive position of the product, our capital resources, the perceived value among potential partners of the product and other factors outside of our control. Therefore,
we may undertake and fund, solely at our expense, further development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing activities for a greater number of proprietary candidates than we planned which may
not result in a greater return to Array than if we had chosen to out-license those programs. In addition, we may choose not to out-license certain of our proprietary programs
if we are unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. As a result, our requirements for capital could increase significantly. We may be unable to raise additional required capital to fund this
additional
development on favorable terms, or at all, however, or we may be required to substantially reduce our development efforts, which would delay, limit or prevent our ability to commercialize and realize
revenue from our drug candidates. 
36



 
Table of Contents
 Because we rely on a small number of collaborators for a significant portion of our revenue, if one or more of our major collaborators terminates or reduces the scope of its
agreement with us, our revenue may significantly decrease.  
A relatively small number of collaborators account for a significant portion of our revenue. Amgen, Genentech, Novartis and Celgene accounted for
34%, 41%, 16% and 7%, respectively, of our total revenue for fiscal 2012; and 36%, 22%, 21% and 21%, respectively, of our total revenue for fiscal 2011. We expect that revenue from a limited number of
collaborators, including Amgen, Genentech, Novartis and Celgene, will account for a large portion of our revenue in future quarters. In general, our collaborators may terminate their contracts with us
upon 60 to 180 days' notice for a number of reasons or no reason. In addition, some of our major collaborators can determine the amount of products delivered and research or development
performed under these agreements. As a result, if any one of our major collaborators cancels, declines to renew or reduces the scope of its contract with us, our revenue may significantly decrease. 
 Our debt obligations could make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or economic downturns or have other adverse consequences to us.  
A portion of our cash flow is dedicated to the payment of interest under our existing senior secured term loan with Comerica Bank, and to the payment
of principal and all or a portion of the interest on our credit facilities with Deerfield. In addition, $14.7 million in principal outstanding under the senior secured term loan with Comerica
Bank becomes due and payable in October 2013, and $72.6 million in principal and $20 million in principal under the Deerfield credit facilities becomes due and payable in 2015 and 2016,
respectively. We must also make prepayments on the Deerfield credit facilities in amounts equal to a percentage of certain license and milestone payments we receive under collaboration agreements
entered into after January 1, 2011, which will reduce the cash available to us from those payments for use in our operations. 
In
the future, if we are unable to generate cash from operations sufficient to meet these debt obligations, we will need to obtain additional funds from other sources, which may include one or
more financings or the license or sale of certain of our assets, or we may be forced to curtail our operations. However, we may be unable to obtain sufficient additional funds when we need them on
favorable terms or at all. In addition, if we are unable to obtain financing when needed, or to fund our operations from funds received through collaboration agreements, our level of cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities may fall below thresholds specified in our debt agreements, requiring us to pay interest at a higher interest rate. Such higher interest rates could also result
in a significant increase in the estimated fair value of the embedded derivative liability, which would adversely impact our reported results of operations. 
Our
indebtedness could have additional negative consequences, including:


•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; •limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to
undertake certain business transactions; and •
placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to
capital resources. 

If
an event of default occurs under our loan documents, including in certain circumstances under the warrants issued in connection with the Deerfield credit facilities, the lenders may declare the
outstanding principal balance and accrued but unpaid interest owed to them immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We may not have sufficient
cash to satisfy this obligation. Also, if a default occurs under our secured loan, and we are unable to repay the lenders, 
37



 
Table of Contents
the
lenders could seek to enforce their rights under their security interests in our assets. If this were to happen, we may lose or be forced to sell some or all of our assets to satisfy our debt,
which could cause our business to fail. 
 Negative conditions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing for development of our proprietary drug programs and other purposes on reasonable
terms and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common stock.  
The U.S. stock and credit markets have been experiencing significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused
market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial
markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively
impact our ability to access additional financing for our research and development activities and other purposes on reasonable terms, which may cause us to curtail or delay our discovery and
development efforts and harm our business. In June 2011 and January 2009, we announced plans designed to conserve our existing capital and to allow us to obtain additional capital outside the
financial markets by accelerating partnering opportunities and focusing resources on advancing the development of our most advanced clinical programs. As part of these efforts we also reduced our
workforce by approximately 70 and 40 employees, respectively. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets, however, may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing
and may require us to make further adjustments to our business plan. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity or debt. The
disruptions in the financial markets may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on us and our business. 
 If our drug discovery and development programs do not progress as anticipated, our revenue and stock price could be negatively impacted.  
We estimate the timing of a variety of preclinical, clinical, regulatory and other milestones for planning purposes, including when a drug candidate
is expected to enter clinical trials, when a clinical trial will be completed, when and if additional clinical trials will commence, or when an application for regulatory approval will be filed. Some
of our estimates are included in this report. We base our estimates on facts that are currently known to us and on a variety of assumptions that may prove not to be correct for a variety of reasons,
many of which are beyond our control. For example, delays in the development of drugs by Array or our collaborators may be caused by regulatory or patent issues, negative or inconclusive interim or
final results of on-going clinical trials, scheduling conflicts with participating clinics and the availability of patients who meet the criteria for and the rate of patient enrollment in,
clinical trials and the development priorities of our collaborators. In addition, in preparing these estimates we rely on the timeliness and accuracy of information and estimates reported or provided
to us by our collaborators concerning the timing, progress and results of clinical trials or other development activities they conduct under our collaborations with them. If we or our collaborators do
not achieve milestones when anticipated, or if our collaborators choose to terminate a program, we may not achieve our planned revenue and our stock price could decline. In addition, any delays in
obtaining approvals to market and sell drugs may result in the loss of competitive advantages in being on the market sooner than, or in advance of, competing products, which may reduce the value of
these products
and the potential revenue we receive from the eventual sale of these products, either directly or under agreements with our partners. 
38



 
Table of Contents
 We may not be able to recruit and retain the experienced scientists and management we need to compete in the drug research and development industry.  
We have 250 employees as of June 30, 2012 and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled
scientists and management. Our ability to achieve our business strategies, including progressing drug candidates through later stage development or commercialization, attracting new collaborators and
retaining, renewing and expanding existing collaborations, depends on our ability to hire and retain high caliber scientists and other qualified experts, particularly in clinical development and
commercialization. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, contract research companies and academic and research institutions to recruit personnel and face significant competition
for qualified personnel, particularly clinical development personnel. We may incur greater costs than anticipated, or may not be successful, in attracting new scientists or management or in retaining
or motivating our existing personnel. 
Our
future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and
maintain a cohesive and stable environment. In particular, we rely on the services of Ron Squarer, our Chief Executive Officer; Dr. Kevin Koch, our President and Chief Scientific Officer;
Dr. David L. Snitman, our Chief Operating Officer and Vice President, Business Development; R. Michael Carruthers, our Chief Financial Officer; and John R. Moore, our Vice President and General
Counsel. We have employment agreements with each of these employees that are terminable upon 30 days' prior notice. 
 Risks Related to Our Clinical Development Activities and Obtaining Regulatory Approval for Our Programs  
 We have limited clinical development and commercialization experience.  
One of our business strategies is to develop select drug candidates through later stage clinical trials before out-licensing them to a
pharmaceutical or biotechnology partner for further clinical development and commercialization and to commercialize select drug candidates ourselves. We have not yet conducted a Phase 3 or
later stage clinical trial ourselves, nor have we commercialized a drug. We have limited experience conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals and we may not be successful in some
or all of these activities. We have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and do not currently have a sales and marketing organization. We
expect to expend significant amounts to recruit and retain high quality personnel with clinical development experience. Developing commercialization capabilities would be expensive and
time-consuming and could delay any product launch, and we may never be able to develop this capacity. To the extent we are unable to or determine not to develop these resources internally,
we may be forced to rely on third-party clinical investigators, or clinical research or marketing organizations, which could subject us to costs and to delays that are outside our control. If we are
unable to establish adequate capabilities independently or with others, we may be unable to generate product revenues for certain candidates. 
 Our collaborators have substantial control and discretion over the timing and the continued development and marketing of drug candidates we create for them.  
Our collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and amount of resources that they dedicate to our collaborations. Our
collaborators may decide not to proceed with clinical development or commercialization of a particular drug candidate for any number of reasons that are beyond our control, even under circumstances
where we might have continued such a program. In addition, our ability to receive milestone payments and royalties from our collaborators depends on our collaborators' abilities to 
39



 
Table of Contents
establish
the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of products developed from our drug candidates. We also depend on our collaborators
to manufacture clinical scale quantities of some of our drug candidates and would depend on them in the future for commercial scale manufacture, distribution and direct sales. Our collaborators may
not be successful in manufacturing our drug candidates on a commercial scale or in successfully commercializing them. 
We
face additional risks in connection with our collaborations, including the following:


•collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to, or
competitive with, the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us; •collaborators may under-fund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution
or
other development of our drug candidates; •collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or they may utilize our proprietary
information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential liability; •collaborators may encounter conflicts of interest, changes in business strategy or other business issues which could
adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us (for example, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities
following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries); and •disputes may arise between us and our collaborators delaying or terminating the
research, development or commercialization
of our drug candidates, resulting in significant litigation or arbitration that could be time-consuming and expensive, or causing collaborators to act in their own
self-interest and not in the interest of our stockholders. 

 If we or our collaborators fail to adequately conduct clinical trials, regulatory approvals necessary for the sale of drugs may not be obtained when anticipated, or at all,
which would reduce or eliminate our potential return on that program.  
Before any of our drug candidates can be sold commercially, we or our collaborators must conduct clinical trials that demonstrate that the drug is
safe and effective for use in humans for the indications sought. The results of these clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain regulatory approval from government authorities such as the FDA.
Conducting clinical trials is
a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims being sought. The length of time, number
of trial sites and number of patients required for clinical trials vary substantially according to their type, complexity, novelty and the drug candidate's intended use and therefore, we may spend as
much as several years completing certain trials. Further, the time within which we can complete our clinical trials depends in large part on the ability to enroll eligible patients who meet the
enrollment criteria and who are in proximity to the trial sites. We and our collaborators also face competition with other clinical trials for eligible patients. As a consequence, there may be limited
availability of eligible patients, which can result in increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals and associated delays in drug candidates reaching the market. Patients may also
suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of our clinical trials that may delay or prohibit regulatory approval of our drug candidates. Even if we or our collaborators successfully
conduct clinical trials, we or our collaborators may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval on this basis. 
In
addition, we plan to conduct, further clinical trial activities in territories outside the U.S. through third-party clinical trial service providers that contract with clinical sites and enroll
patients in foreign 
40



 
Table of Contents
jurisdictions,
including Eastern Europe and South America, and may do so in new geographic locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited. Some of these foreign
jurisdictions may impose requirements on us or our third-party clinical trial service providers or contract manufacturers that are more stringent than those imposed by the FDA, which may delay the
development and approval of our drug candidates. 
If
we or our collaborators fail to adequately manage the increasing number, size and complexity of clinical trials, the clinical trials and corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we or
our collaborators may fail to gain approval for our drug candidates altogether. If we or our collaborators are unable to market and sell our drug candidates or are unable to obtain approvals in the
timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 
 Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues.  
Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of our products or products of our collaborators could significantly affect our product
development costs and our ability to generate revenue from these products, including programs that we have
out-licensed. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed
for a number of reasons, including delays related to the ability of Array or our collaborators to do the following:


•obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; •reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective drug manufacturers,
clinical research organizations, or CROs, and
trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; •select CROs, trial sites and, where necessary,
contract manufacturers that do not encounter any regulatory compliance
problems; •manufacture sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials; •obtain institutional review
board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; •recruit and enroll patients to participate in clinical trials, which can be impacted by many factors outside
our or our
collaborators' control, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications; and •retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be
prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy,
lack of efficacy or personal issues. 

Clinical
trials may also be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us or our collaborator, the FDA, the IRB
overseeing the clinical trial at issue, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors,
including:


•failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements (including Good Clinical Practices, or
GCP) or our clinical protocols; •inspection of the clinical trial operations, trial sites or manufacturing facility by the FDA or other regulatory
authorities resulting in findings of non-compliance and the imposition of a clinical hold; •unforeseen safety issues or results that do not demonstrate efficacy; and •lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. 

41








 










Table of Contents 
Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to
resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we
terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed and/or reduced. In addition, many
of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. 
 Drug candidates that we develop with our collaborators or on our own may not receive regulatory approval.  
The development and commercialization of drug candidates for our collaborators and our own internal drug discovery efforts are subject to regulation.
Pharmaceutical
products require lengthy and costly testing in animals and humans and regulatory approval by governmental agencies prior to commercialization. It takes several years to complete testing and failure
can occur at any stage of the testing. Results attained in preclinical testing and early clinical trials for any of our drug candidates may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later
studies and significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials may arise, even after promising results in earlier studies. Clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain
the requisite regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. Furthermore, data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit
or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, the administration of any drug candidate we develop may produce undesirable side effects or safety issues that could result in the interruption, delay or
suspension of clinical trials, or the failure to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for any or all targeted indications. Based on results at any stage of testing, we or our collaborators may
decide to repeat or redesign a trial or discontinue development of a drug candidate. 
Approval
of a drug candidate as safe and effective for use in humans is never certain and regulatory agencies may delay or deny approval of drug candidates for commercialization. These agencies may
also delay or deny approval based on additional government regulation or administrative action, on changes in regulatory policy during the period of clinical trials in humans and regulatory review or
on the availability of alternative treatments. Similar delays and denials may be encountered in foreign countries. None of our collaborators have obtained regulatory approval to manufacture and sell
drug candidates owned by us or identified or developed under an agreement with us. If we or our collaborators cannot obtain this approval, we will not realize milestone or royalty payments based on
commercialization goals for these drug candidates. 
In
light of widely publicized events concerning the safety of certain drug products, such as Avandia(R) (rosiglitazone), regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the Government Accountability
Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential post-marketing drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products,
revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk evaluations and mitigation strategies, or REMS, that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug
products and impose burdensome implementation requirements on the company. Although drug safety concerns have occurred over time, the increased attention to this issue may result in a more cautious
approach by the FDA. As a result, data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety than in years past. Safety concerns may result in the FDA or other regulatory
authorities terminating clinical trials before completion or requiring longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense and a delay or failure in obtaining
approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought. 
42



 
Table of Contents
 Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, we and our collaborators will be subject to ongoing government regulation.  
Even if regulatory authorities approve any of our drug candidates, the manufacture, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, distribution, marketing and
sale of these drugs will be subject to strict and ongoing regulation. Compliance with this regulation consumes substantial financial and management resources and may expose us and our collaborators to
the potential for other adverse circumstances. For example, approval for a drug may be conditioned on costly post-marketing follow-up studies. Based on these studies, if a
regulatory authority does not believe that the drug demonstrates a clinical benefit to patients, it could limit the indications for which a drug may be sold or revoke the drug's marketing approval. In
addition, identification of certain side effects after a drug is on the market may result in the subsequent withdrawal of approval, reformulation of a drug, additional preclinical and clinical trials,
changes in labeling or distribution, or we may be required by FDA to develop and implement a REMS to ensure the safe use of our products. Any of these events could delay or prevent us from generating
revenue from the commercialization of these drugs and cause us to incur significant additional costs. 
Given
the number of high profile safety events with certain drug products, the FDA may require, as a condition of approval, a REMS that includes costly risk management programs with components
including safety surveillance, restricted distribution and use, patient education, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events,
pre-approval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising. Furthermore, heightened Congressional scrutiny on the adequacy of the
FDA's drug approval process and the agency's efforts to assure the safety of marketed drugs has resulted in the proposal of new legislation addressing drug safety issues. If enacted, any new
legislation could result in delays or increased costs for manufacturers and drug sponsors during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, as well as
increased costs to assure compliance with any new post-approval regulatory requirements. 
In
addition, the marketing of these drugs by us or our collaborators will be regulated by federal and state laws pertaining to health care "fraud and abuse," such as the federal
anti-kickback law prohibiting bribes, kickbacks or other remuneration for the order, purchase or recommendation of items or services reimbursed by federal health care programs. Many states
have similar laws applicable to items or services reimbursed by commercial insurers. Violations of fraud and abuse laws can result in fines and/or imprisonment or exclusion from participation in
federal health care programs. 
 If our drug candidates do not gain market acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenue.  
Even if our drug candidates are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of our drug candidates
will depend on a number of factors including:


•demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety; •potential advantages of our drug candidates over alternative treatments;
•ability to offer our drug candidates for sale at competitive prices; •
availability of adequate third-party reimbursement; and •effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. 

If
our drug candidates do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and others in the medical community, our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our drug candidates would be
limited. 
43



 
Table of Contents
 Our cGMP and pharmacology facilities and practices may fail to comply with government regulations.  
All facilities and manufacturing processes used in the production of API and drug products for clinical use in the U.S., must be operated in
conformity with cGMP as established by the FDA. Similar requirements in other countries exist for manufacture of drug products for clinical use. These requirements include, among other things, quality
control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. If we or any contract manufacturers we use fail to comply with these requirements, we may not be able to continue the
production of our products and we could be subject to civil and criminal fines and penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or
withdrawal of product approval. We operate a clinical-scale manufacturing facility that we believe conforms to cGMP requirements. This facility and our cGMP practices may be subject to periodic
regulatory inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP requirements. In addition, we could be required to comply with specific requirements or specifications of other countries and/or of our
collaborators, which may exceed applicable regulatory requirements. Failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations and specific requirements or specifications of other countries and/or our
collaborators could result in the termination of ongoing research, disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities, delays or denials of new product approvals, warning letters,
fines, consent decrees restricting or suspending manufacturing operations, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products and criminal prosecution. Material violations of cGMP
requirements could result in regulatory sanctions and, in severe cases, could result in a mandated closing of our cGMP facility. 
In
connection with our application for commercial approvals and, if any drug candidate is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, a significant scale-up in
manufacturing may require additional validation studies. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that
drug candidate may be delayed, or there may be a shortage of supply, which could limit our ability to develop or commercialize the drug. 
In
addition, our pharmacology facility may be subject to FDA Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, and the USDA regulations for certain animal species. Failure on our part to comply with applicable
regulations and specific requirements of our collaborators could result in the termination of ongoing pharmacology research. Material violations of GLP and USDA requirements could result in additional
regulatory sanctions and, in severe cases, could result in a mandated closing of our pharmacology facility for certain species. 
 We or other third party manufacturers we rely on may encounter failures or difficulties in manufacturing or formulating clinical commercial supplies of drugs, which could
delay the clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates, or their ultimate commercial production if approved.  
We and third parties manufacture our drug candidates. We also from time to time manufacture drug candidates for our collaborators. We do not have
manufacturing facilities that can produce sufficient quantities of active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished drug product for large-scale clinical trials. Accordingly, we must either
develop such facilities, which will require substantial additional funds, or rely, at least to some extent, on third-party manufacturers for the production of drug candidates. Furthermore, should we
obtain FDA approval for any of our drug candidates, we expect to rely, at least to some extent, on third-party manufacturers for commercial production. Our dependence on others for the manufacture of
our drug candidates may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver such drug candidates on a timely and competitive basis. 
44



 
Table of Contents
Any
performance failure on the part of us or a third-party manufacturer could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or, ultimately, sales of our or our collaborators' drug candidates. We or
third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, regulatory compliance, lot release, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified
personnel. Approval of our drug candidates could be delayed, limited or denied if the FDA does not approve our or a third-party manufacturer's processes or facilities. Moreover, the ability to
adequately and timely manufacture and supply drug candidates is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of the manufacturing facilities, which is impacted by many manufacturing
variables including:


•availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for
which we have no other source or supplier; 
•capacity of our facilities or those of our contract manufacturers; 
•facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses or cross contamination;  
•compliance with regulatory requirements, including Form 483 notices and Warning Letters;  
•changes in forecasts of future demand; 
•timing and actual number of production runs; 
•production success rates and bulk drug yields; and 
•timing and outcome of product quality testing. 

In
addition, we or our third-party manufacturers may encounter delays and problems in manufacturing our drug candidates or drugs for a variety of reasons, including accidents during operation, failure
of equipment, delays in receiving materials, natural or other disasters, political or governmental changes, or other factors inherent in operating complex manufacturing facilities. Supply chain
management is complex, and involves sourcing from a number of different companies and foreign countries. Commercially available starting materials, reagents and excipients may become scarce or more
expensive to procure, and we may not be able to obtain favorable terms in agreements with subcontractors. We or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to operate our respective manufacturing
facilities in a cost-effective manner or in a time frame that is consistent with our expected future manufacturing needs. If we or our third- party manufacturers cease or interrupt
production or if our third-party manufacturers and other service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, such interruption could delay progress on our programs,
or interrupt the commercial supply, with the potential for additional costs and lost revenues. If this were to occur, we may also need to seek alternative means to fulfill our manufacturing needs. 
We
may not be able to enter into agreements for the manufacture of our drug candidates with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with applicable law. Manufacturers are subject to
ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable government regulations and
corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over a third-party manufacturer's compliance with these regulations and standards. If we or one of our manufacturers fail to maintain
compliance, we or they could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, the production of our drug candidates could be interrupted or suspended, or our product could be recalled or withdrawn,
resulting in delays, additional costs and potentially lost revenues. 
45



 
Table of Contents
 Our development, testing and manufacture of drug candidates may expose us to product liability and other lawsuits.  
We develop, test and manufacture drug candidates that are generally intended for use in humans. Our drug discovery and development activities,
including clinical trials we or our collaborators conduct, that result in the future manufacture and sale of drugs by us or our collaborators expose us to the risk of liability for personal injury or
death to persons using these drug candidates. We may be required to pay substantial damages or incur legal costs in connection with defending any of these product liability claims, or we may not
receive revenue from expected royalty or milestone payments if the commercialization of a drug is limited or ceases as a result of such claims. We have product liability insurance that contains
customary exclusions and provides coverage up to $10 million per occurrence and in the aggregate, which we believe is customary in our industry for our current operations. However, our product
liability insurance does not cover every type of product liability claim that we may face or loss we may incur and may not adequately compensate us for the entire amount of covered claims or losses or
for the harm to our business reputation. We may be unable to acquire or maintain additional or maintain our current insurance policies at acceptable costs or at all. 
 Due to our reliance on contract research organizations and other third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct and
expense of our clinical trials.  
We rely primarily on third parties to manufacture API and drug product and to conduct our clinical trials. As a result, we have had and will continue
to have less control over the conduct of our clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial
than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be
challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become
financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or
quality of the work of a contract manufacturing or contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change
may be costly and may delay our trials and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be impossible to find a replacement organization that can
conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. 
 Controls we or our third-party service providers have in place to ensure compliance with laws may not be effective to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and
regulations.  
The discovery and development of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. by state and
federal agencies and, as we begin to conduct clinical trials and other activities outside the U.S., in foreign countries. Due to escalating costs and difficulties associated with conducting certain
types of clinical trials in the U.S., we conduct certain clinical trials in foreign locations where we have little experience, including countries in Eastern Europe and South America. We expect that
we typically will conduct these trials through third-party clinical trial service providers. In addition, we purchase from third-party suppliers and manufacturers that are located outside the U.S.,
principally countries in Europe, intermediate and bulk API that are used in our development efforts and we contract with 3rd party service providers to prepare finished drug
product, including packaging and labeling. As a result, we and our contractors are subject to regulations in the U.S. and in the foreign countries in which the API is sourced and manufactured relating
to the cross-border shipment of pharmaceutical ingredients. Although we have developed and instituted controls based on what we believe to be current best practices, we, our employees, our consultants
or our contractors may not be in 
46



 
Table of Contents
compliance
with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. Further, we have a limited ability to monitor
and control the activities of third-party service providers, suppliers and manufacturers to ensure compliance by such parties with all applicable regulations and/or laws. We may be subject to direct
liabilities or be required to indemnify such parties against certain liabilities arising out of any failure by them to comply with such regulations and/or laws. If we or our employees, consultants or
contractors fail to comply with any of these regulations and/or laws a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a
product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or
other sanctions or litigation. 
 If our use of chemical and hazardous materials violates applicable laws or regulations or causes personal injury we may be liable for damages.  
Our drug discovery activities, including the analysis and synthesis of chemical compounds, involve the controlled use of chemicals, including
flammable, combustible, toxic and radioactive materials that are potentially hazardous. Our use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials is subject to federal, state and local laws and
regulations, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act and local fire codes and regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, the Drug
Enforcement Agency, the Department of Energy, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment and the Colorado Department of Human Services, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division. We may incur
significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. In addition, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, which could
result in material unanticipated expenses, such as substantial fines or penalties, remediation costs or damages, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our business.
Those expenses could exceed our net worth and limit our ability to raise additional capital. 
 Our operations could be interrupted by damage to our specialized laboratory facilities.  
Our operations depend on the continued use of our highly specialized laboratories and equipment in Boulder and Longmont, Colorado. Catastrophic
events, including fires or explosions, could damage our laboratories, equipment, scientific data, work in progress or inventories of chemical compounds and may materially interrupt our business. We
employ safety precautions in our laboratory activities in order to reduce the likelihood of the occurrence of these catastrophic events; however, we cannot eliminate the chance that such an event will
occur. The availability of laboratory space in these locations is limited and rebuilding our facilities could be time consuming and result in substantial delays in fulfilling our agreements with our
collaborators. We maintain business interruption insurance in the amount of $15 million to cover continuing expenses and lost revenue caused by such occurrences. However, this insurance does
not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential harm to customer relations that our inability to meet our collaborators' needs in a timely manner could create. 
 Risks Related to Our Drug Discovery Activities  
 Revenue from collaborations depends on the extent to which the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries collaborate with other companies for one or more aspects of their
drug discovery process.  
Our capabilities include aspects of the drug discovery process that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have traditionally performed
internally. The willingness of these companies to expand or continue drug discovery collaborations to enhance their research and development process is based on several factors that are beyond our
control, any of which could cause our revenue to decline. These 
47



 
Table of Contents
include
their ability to hire and retain qualified scientists, the resources available for entering into drug discovery collaborations and the spending priorities among various types of research
activities. In addition, our ability to convince these companies to use our drug discovery capabilities, rather than develop them internally, depends on many factors, including our ability
to:


•develop and implement drug discovery technologies that will result in the identification of higher-quality drug
candidates; •attract and retain experienced, high caliber scientists; •achieve timely, high-quality results at an acceptable
cost; and •design, create and manufacture our chemical compounds in quantities, at purity levels and at costs that are acceptable to
our collaborators. 

The
importance of these factors varies depend on the company and type of discovery program and we may be unable to meet any or all of them in the future. Even if we are able to address these
factors, these companies may still decide to perform these activities internally or retain other companies that provide drug research and development expertise similar to ours. 
 Our research and development capabilities may not produce viable drug candidates.  
We have entered into several research and development collaborations under which we provide drug discovery and development services to identify drug
candidates for our collaborators. We also seek to identify and develop drug candidates for our proprietary programs. It is uncertain whether we will be able to provide drug discovery more efficiently
or create high quality drug candidates that are suitable for our or our collaborators' purposes, which may result in delayed or lost revenue, loss of collaborators or failure to expand our existing
relationships. Our ability to create viable drug candidates for ourselves and our collaborators depends on many factors, including the implementation of appropriate technologies, the development of
effective new research tools, the complexity of the chemistry and biology, the lack of predictability in the scientific process and the performance and decision-making capabilities of our scientists.
Our information-driven technology platform, which we believe allows our scientists to make better decisions, may not enable our scientists to make correct decisions or develop viable drug candidates. 
 Risks Related To Our Industry  
 The concentration of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry and any further consolidation could reduce the number of our potential collaborators.  
There are a limited number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and these companies represent a significant portion of the market for our
capabilities. The number of our potential collaborators could decline even further through consolidation among these companies. If the number of our potential collaborators declines even further, they
may be able to negotiate greater rights to the intellectual property they license from us, price discounts or other terms that are unfavorable to us. 
 Capital market conditions may reduce our biotechnology collaborators' ability to fund research and development.  
Traditionally, many unprofitable biotechnology companies have funded their research and development expenditures through raising capital in the
equity markets. Declines and uncertainties in these markets have severely restricted their ability to raise new capital and to continue to expand or fund existing research and development efforts. If
our current or future biotechnology collaborators are unable to raise sufficient capital to fund research and development expenditures, we may not be able to expand or maintain current revenue. 
48




 











Table of Contents 
 Health care reform, including those based on recently enacted legislation and cost control initiatives by third-party payors, could reduce the prices that can be charged for
drugs, which could limit the commercial success of our drug candidates.  
In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010,
together the "Healthcare Reform Act." These laws substantially change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry.
The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that will be expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our
business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, mandatory discounts on pharmaceuticals under federal health care programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse
enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and
improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. 
Additional
provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act, some of which became effective in 2011, may negatively affect any associated product revenues and prospects for continued profitability in the
future. For example, the Healthcare Reform Act imposes a non-deductible annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers that sell branded prescription drugs to U.S. government
programs that may impact any associated product revenue and therefore revenue we are entitled to receive from royalties on product sales. In addition, as part of the Healthcare Reform Act's provisions
closing a funding gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the "donut hole"), manufacturers of branded prescription drugs will be required
to provide a 50% discount on drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole. Earlier this year, the Supreme Court of the United States heard challenges to the constitutionality of the
individual mandate and the viability of certain provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act. The Supreme Court's decision in Nat'l Federation of Independent Business v.
Sebelius upheld most of the Healthcare Reform Act and determined that requiring individuals to maintain "minimum essential" health insurance coverage or pay a penalty to the
Internal Revenue Service was within Congress's constitutional taxing authority. However, the Supreme Court struck down a provision in the Healthcare Reform Act that penalized states which chose not to
expand their Medicaid programs through an increase in the Medicaid eligibility income limit from a state's current eligibility levels to 133% of the federal poverty limit. As a result of the Supreme
Court's ruling, it is unclear whether states will expand their Medicaid programs by raising the income limit to 133% of the federal poverty level and whether there will be more uninsured patients in
2014 than anticipated when Congress passed the Healthcare Reform Act. An increase in the proportion of uninsured patients who are prescribed products resulting from our proprietary or partnered
programs could impact our business. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry
generally and on the ability of Array or our collaborators to successfully commercialize product candidates or could limit or eliminate our future spending on development projects. 
In
addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down while
expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could limit the prices that can be charged for drugs we develop or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from
governmental agencies or third-party payors, or may increase the tax obligations on pharmaceutical companies, increase our rebate liability and discount obligations and so may limit our commercial
opportunity and reduce any associated revenue and profits. For example, federal laws require drug manufacturers to pay specified rebates to each state Medicaid program for medicines reimbursed by
Medicaid and to provide discounts for out-patient medicines purchased by certain safety net providers and "disproportionate 
49



 
Table of Contents
share"
hospitals and for purchases by some federal governmental departments such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense. The rebates paid to state Medicaid programs are
based on pricing data reported by manufacturers on a monthly and quarterly basis to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the federal agency which administers the Medicaid drug rebate
program. These data include the average manufacturer price, or AMP, and in the case
of innovator products, the best price for each drug. As a result of the enactment of the Healthcare Reform Act, rebates also are due on the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations,
effective March 23, 2010. 
Pursuant
to the Healthcare Reform Act, the amount of the Medicaid rebate for each unit of a drug has been increased. For most innovator products, in general a drug marketed under a new drug
application, or NDA, the minimum rebate has been increased from 15.1% to 23.1% of the AMP for that product, or if it is greater, the difference between the AMP and the best price for the drug. The
Medicaid rebate for innovator products also includes an additional rebate amount if price increases for the drug exceed the rate of inflation since the product's launch, and in the case of certain
line extension products, the additional rebate can be tied to the price of the original version of the product. The Healthcare Reform Act also caps the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100%
of the AMP for the drug. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Act and subsequent legislation enacted in August of 2010 changed the definition of AMP. Regulations have been proposed to implement the
Medicaid prescription drug provisions of the enacted statutory changes. There may be additional increases in rebates or other costs and charges from government agencies. Regulations continue to be
issued and coverage expanded by various governmental agencies relating to these programs, increasing the cost and complexity of compliance. 
Health
reform also expanded the number of safety net providers and hospitals that receive discounted pricing on out-patient medicines. In some countries other than the U.S., reimbursement,
pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals are subject to government control. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating
to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. 
Also,
we expect managed care plans will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products due to a trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of
health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we, or any potential collaborators, receive for any of our future
products, which could adversely affect our profitability. These initiatives may also have the effect of reducing the resources that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can devote to
in-licensing drug candidates and the research and development of new drugs, which could reduce our resulting revenue. Any cost containment measures or other reforms that are adopted could
have a negative impact on our ability to commercialize successfully our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on development of new drugs and affect our profitability. 
Other
legislation affecting government expenditures more broadly have the potential to affect negatively our product revenues and prospects for continued profitability. For example, the Budget Control
Act of 2011 that was signed into law on August 2, 2011 to reduce federal government expenditures may result in reduced payment rates for drugs under different government health care programs.
The implementation of this law could decrease the price that we and our potential collaborators receive for our future products. 
 We, or our collaborators, may not obtain favorable reimbursement rates for our drug candidates.  
The commercial success of our drug candidates will depend on the availability and adequacy of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors,
including government and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceuticals and other medical 
50



 
Table of Contents
products.
Our products may be considered less cost-effective than existing products and, as such, coverage and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or be sufficient to allow
the sale of our products on a competitive basis or on a profitable basis. 
In
addition, the market for our drug candidates will depend significantly on access to third-party payors' drug formularies, or lists of medications for which third-party payors provide coverage and
reimbursement. Industry competition to be included in such formularies can result in downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. As such, we cannot provide assurances that our products
will be placed on third-party payors' formularies. To the extent that our products are listed on third-party payors' formularies, we or our collaborators may not be able to negotiate favorable
reimbursement rates for our products. If we, or our collaborators, fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, sales of the drugs would be adversely
affected or there may be no commercially viable market for the products. 
 The drug research and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and we may be involved in costly intellectual property
lawsuits.  
The drug research and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and we believe these lawsuits are
likely to continue. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property would be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Because we produce
drug candidates for a broad range of therapeutic areas and provide many different capabilities in this industry, we face potential patent infringement suits by companies that control patents for
similar drug candidates or capabilities or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. There could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products infringe
or patents that we believe we do not infringe that we are ultimately found to infringe. Moreover, patent applications are in many cases maintained in secrecy for 18 months after filing or even
until patents are issued. The publication of
discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. Because patent
applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that we infringe with our products. In addition,
technology created under our research and development collaborations may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, in which case we may not receive milestone or royalty revenue from
those collaborations. 
If
we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including triple damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or
obtain a license to use the patented technology or redesign our products so as not to infringe the patent. We may not be able to enter into licensing arrangements at a reasonable cost or effectively
redesign our products. Any inability to secure licenses or alternative technology could delay the introduction of our products or prevent us from manufacturing or selling products. 
 The intellectual property rights we rely on to protect our proprietary drug candidates and the technology underlying our tools and techniques may be inadequate to prevent
third parties from using our technology or developing competing capabilities or to protect our interests in our proprietary drug candidates.  
Our success depends in part on our ability to protect patents and maintain the secrecy of proprietary processes and other technologies we develop for
the testing and synthesis of chemical compounds in the drug discovery process. We currently have numerous U.S. patents and patent applications on file with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as well
as around the world. 
51



 
Table of Contents
Any
patents that we may own or license now or in the future may not afford meaningful protection for our drug candidates or our technology and tools. In order to protect or enforce our intellectual
property rights, we may have to initiate legal proceedings against third parties. Our efforts to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights may not be successful and may result in
substantial costs and diversion of management time. In addition, other companies may challenge our patents and, as a result, these patents could be narrowed, invalidated or deemed unenforceable, or we
may be forced to stop using the technology covered by these patents or to license the technology from third parties. In addition, current and future patent applications on which we depend may not
result in the issuance of patents in the U.S. or foreign countries. Even if our rights are valid, enforceable and broad in scope, competitors may develop drug candidates or other products based on
similar research or technology that is not covered by our patents. 
Patent
applications relating to or affecting our business may have been filed by a number of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies and academic institutions. A number of the technologies in
these applications or patents may conflict with our technologies, patents or patent applications, which could reduce the scope of patent protection we could otherwise obtain. We could also become
involved in interference proceedings in connection with one or more of our patents or patent applications to determine priority of inventions. We cannot be certain that we are the first creator of
inventions covered by pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file patent applications for any such inventions. 
Drug
candidates we develop that are approved for commercial marketing by the FDA would be eligible for market exclusivity for varying time periods during which generic versions of a drug may not be
marketed and we could apply to extend patent protection for up to five additional years under the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides a means for approving generic
versions of a drug once the marketing exclusivity period has ended and all relevant patents have expired. The period of exclusive marketing, however, may be shortened if a patent is successfully
challenged and defeated, which could reduce the amount of royalties we receive on the product. 
 Agreements we have with our employees, consultants and collaborators may not afford adequate protection for our trade secrets, confidential information and other proprietary
information.  
In addition to patent protection, we also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological
innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants and advisors
to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information
and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. The failure by employees, consultants or advisors to maintain the secrecy of our confidential information may
compromise or prevent our ability to obtain needed or meaningful patent protection. Furthermore, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one
or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with
whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary
information of their previous employers, these individuals, or we, may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations.
Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure or inability to protect our
proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to compete effectively, or exclude certain competitors from the market. 
52



 
Table of Contents
 The drug research and development industry is highly competitive and we compete with some companies that offer a broader range of capabilities and have better access to
resources than we do.  
The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by rapid and continuous technological innovation. We compete with many companies
worldwide that are engaged in the research and discovery, licensing, development and commercialization of drug candidates. Some of our competitors have a broader range of capabilities and have greater
access to financial, technical, scientific, regulatory, business development, recruiting and other resources than we do. Their access to greater resources may allow them to develop processes or
products that are more effective, safer or less costly, or gain greater market acceptance, than products we develop or for which they obtain FDA approval more rapidly than we do. We anticipate that we
will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and advanced technologies become available. 
 We face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from research institutions.  
Most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient information, are subject to privacy and
security regulations promulgated under HIPAA, as amended by HITECH. Our clinical research efforts are not directly regulated by HIPAA. However, conduct by a person that may not be prosecuted directly
under HIPAA's criminal provisions could potentially be prosecuted under aiding and abetting or conspiracy laws. Consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial
criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied HIPAA's disclosure standards. In
addition, international data protection laws including the EU Data Protection Directive and member state implementing legislation may apply to some or all of the clinical data obtained outside of the
U.S. Furthermore, certain privacy laws and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our use and dissemination of
individuals' health information. Moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have contractual rights that
limit our ability to use and disclose the information. Claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be
expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. 
 Risks Related To Our Stock  
 Our officers and directors have significant control over us and their interests may differ from those of our stockholders.  
As of June 30, 2012, our directors and officers beneficially owned or controlled approximately 4.8% of our issued and outstanding common
stock. Individually and in the aggregate, these stockholders significantly influence our management, affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval. These stockholders may vote their shares in
a way with which other stockholders do not agree. In particular, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition of us or entrenching management
and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 
 Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline.  
Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Entering into licensing or drug discovery
collaborations typically involves significant technical evaluation and/or 
53



 
Table of Contents
commitment
of capital by our collaborators. Accordingly, negotiation can be lengthy and is subject to a number of significant risks, including collaborators' budgetary constraints and internal
acceptance reviews and a significant portion of our revenue from these collaborations is attributable to up-front payments and milestones that are non-recurring. Further, some
of our collaborators can influence when we deliver products and perform services and therefore receive revenue, under their contracts with us. Due to these factors, our operating results could
fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to factors such as general and industry-specific economic
conditions that may affect the research and development expenditures of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. 
Due
to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our
future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. If we do not meet analysts' and/or investors' expectations, our stock
price could decline. 
 Because our stock price may be volatile, our stock price could experience substantial declines.  
The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. The high and low closing bids for our
common stock were $3.72 and $1.77, respectively, during fiscal 2012; $3.58 and $2.06, respectively, during fiscal 2011; and $4.45 and $1.72, respectively, during fiscal 2010. Our quarterly operating
results, the success or failure of our internal drug discovery efforts, decisions to delay, modify or cease one or more of our development programs, negative data or adverse events reported on
programs in clinical trials we or our collaborators are conducting, uncertainties about our ability to continue to fund our operating plan, changes in general conditions in the economy or the
financial markets and other developments affecting our collaborators, our competitors or us could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. This volatility coupled with
market declines in our industry over the past several years have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and may
adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities.
A securities class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs and the diversion of management's attention and resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. 
 Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.  
We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and are restricted in our ability to do so under our current credit agreement.
We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of
an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which
stockholders have purchased their shares. 
54



 
Table of Contents
 The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company is limited, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.  
There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may discourage a third-party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if
some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These include the following provisions in our certificate of
incorporation:


•Our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring
each year, commonly referred to as a "staggered board." By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision
may have the effect of keeping the current members of our Board of Directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire; and •Our certificate of incorporation
authorizes our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder
approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay
a tender offer or change in control. 

We
are also subject to the business combination provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our
stock. As a result, it is difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us without the approval of the Board of Directors and, therefore, mergers and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may
consider in their best interests may not occur. 
 
 
  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS     
None. 
 
 
  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES     
We are headquartered in Boulder, Colorado, where we lease 150 thousand square feet of office and laboratory space under a lease that expires
in July 2016. We lease 78 thousand square feet of laboratory space in Longmont, Colorado under a lease that expires in August 2016. As of June 30, 2012, we were utilizing
58 thousand square feet in our Longmont facility as discussed further under Note 9 – Restructuring Charges contained
elsewhere in this Annual Report. We also lease 11 thousand square feet of office space in Morrisville, North Carolina under a lease that expires in October 2014. We have options to extend each
of the leases for up to two terms of five years each. 
 
 
  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     
We may be involved, from time to time, in various claims and legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. We are not currently a
party to any such claims or proceedings that, if decided adversely to us, would either individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results
of operations. 
 
 
  ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES     
None. 
55




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
PART II



 
    ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES     
 Common Stock Sales Prices  
Our common stock trades on the NADSAQ Global Market under the symbol "ARRY." The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of
the closing high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Market. 
















Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2012 
 
High 
 
Low 
 


 First Quarter
 
$
2.62
 
$
1.95
 


 Second Quarter
 
$
2.83
 
$
1.77
 


 Third Quarter
 
$
3.41
 
$
2.02
 


 Fourth Quarter
 
$
3.72
 
$
3.09
 


Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 
 

High 
 

Low 
 


 First Quarter
 
$
3.44
 
$
2.67
 


 Second Quarter
 
$
3.58
 
$
2.98
 


 Third Quarter
 
$
3.29
 
$
2.70
 


 Fourth Quarter
 
$
3.21
 
$
2.06
 




As
of August 10, 2012, there were approximately 59 holders of record of our common stock. This does not include the number of persons whose stock is in nominee or "street name" accounts through
brokers. 
 Dividends  
We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In
addition, the terms of our loan agreements restrict our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the
operations of our business and to fund future growth. 
 Stock Performance Graph  
This stock performance graph shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or
otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of ours under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
The
following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return for our common stock, the NASDAQ Global Markets' Composite (U.S. companies) Index, the NASDAQ Pharmaceutical Index and the NASDAQ
Biotechnology Index for the five-year period ended June 30, 2012. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on June 30, 2007 in the common stock of Array, the NASDAQ Composite
Index, the NASDAQ Pharmaceutical Index and the NASDAQ Biotechnology Index. It also assumes that all dividends were reinvested. 
The
stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 
56



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  COMPARISON OF FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURNS Among Array BioPharma Inc., the NASDAQ Composite Index,  the NASDAQ Pharmaceutical Index and the NASDAQ Biotechnology Index


























 
 
Array BioPharma Inc. 
 
NASDAQ Composite Index 
 
NASDAQ Pharmaceutical Index 
 
NASDAQ Biotechnology Index 
 


6/30/2007
 
$
100.00
 
$
100.00
 
$
100.00
 
$
100.00
 


9/30/2007
 
$
96.23
 
$
103.65
 
$
107.71
 
$
107.01
 


12/31/2007
 
$
72.15
 
$
97.08
 
$
98.45
 
$
98.33
 


3/31/2008
 
$
60.07
 
$
83.66
 
$
95.10
 
$
94.20
 


6/30/2008
 
$
40.27
 
$
84.54
 
$
97.50
 
$
94.92
 


9/30/2008
 
$
65.81
 
$
76.03
 
$
100.28
 
$
97.60
 


12/31/2008
 
$
34.70
 
$
59.93
 
$
92.43
 
$
90.05
 


3/31/2009
 
$
22.62
 
$
59.56
 
$
83.68
 
$
81.45
 


6/30/2009
 
$
26.91
 
$
73.03
 
$
92.05
 
$
88.62
 


9/30/2009
 
$
20.39
 
$
85.56
 
$
102.56
 
$
100.25
 


12/31/2009
 
$
24.08
 
$
88.04
 
$
102.16
 
$
100.88
 


3/31/2010
 
$
23.48
 
$
92.30
 
$
110.16
 
$
109.89
 


6/30/2010
 
$
26.14
 
$
82.88
 
$
92.83
 
$
93.92
 


9/30/2010
 
$
27.68
 
$
94.13
 
$
102.03
 
$
103.80
 


12/31/2010
 
$
25.62
 
$
102.51
 
$
107.97
 
$
110.83
 


3/31/2011
 
$
26.22
 
$
110.48
 
$
113.23
 
$
118.98
 


6/30/2011
 
$
19.19
 
$
110.33
 
$
121.14
 
$
128.20
 


9/30/2011
 
$
16.71
 
$
93.48
 
$
105.65
 
$
113.16
 


12/31/2011
 
$
18.51
 
$
101.51
 
$
116.38
 
$
123.98
 


3/31/2012
 
$
29.18
 
$
120.45
 
$
135.49
 
$
139.71
 


6/30/2012
 
$
29.73
 
$
115.30
 
$
142.95
 
$
144.28
 




57



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     
The following selected financial data is derived from our audited financial statements. These historical results do not necessarily indicate future
results. When you read this data, it is important that you also read our financial statements and related notes, as well as the section entitled Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Amounts are in thousands except per share data: 

























 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 


 Revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 License and milestone revenue
 
$
71,249
 
$
53,426
 
$
32,485
 
$
7,754
 
$
7,295
 


 Collaboration revenue
 
 
13,886
 
 
18,475
 
 
21,395
 
 
17,228
 
 
21,513
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenue
 
 
85,135
 
 
71,901
 
 
53,880
 
 
24,982
 
 
28,808
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cost of revenue
 
 
24,261
 
 
28,916
 
 
28,322
 
 
19,855
 
 
21,364
 


 Research and development for proprietary drug discovery
 
 
56,719
 
 
63,498
 
 
72,488
 
 
89,560
 
 
90,347
 


 General and administrative
 
 
15,202
 
 
16,261
 
 
17,121
 
 
18,020
 
 
15,591
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating expenses
 
 
96,182
 
 
108,675
 
 
117,931
 
 
127,435
 
 
127,302
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from operations
 
 

(11,047
)
 

(36,774
)
 

(64,051
)
 

(102,453
)
 

(98,494
)


 Other income (expense)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Realized gains (losses) on auction rate securities, net
 
 
-    
 
 
1,891
 
 
1,305
 
 
(17,742
)
 
(1,872
)


 Loss on prepayment of long-term debt, net
 
 
(942
)
 
(6,340
)
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 


 Interest income
 
 
32
 
 
406
 
 
864
 
 
2,116
 
 
6,064
 


 Interest expense
 
 
(11,624
)
 
(15,507
)
 
(15,749
)
 
(10,024
)
 
(1,986
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other income (expense), net
 
 
(12,534
)
 
(19,550
)
 
(13,580
)
 
(25,650
)
 
2,206
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss before income taxes
 
 

(23,581
)
 

(56,324
)
 

(77,631
)
 

(128,103
)
 

(96,288
)


 Income tax benefit
 
 

-    
 
 

-    
 
 

-    
 
 

288
 
 

-    
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$

(23,581
)
$

(56,324
)
$

(77,631
)
$

(127,815
)
$

(96,288
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average shares outstanding - basic and diluted
 
 

70,619
 
 

55,447
 
 

50,216
 
 

47,839
 
 

47,309
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss per share - basic and diluted
 
$

(0.33
)
$

(1.02
)
$

(1.55
)
$

(2.67
)
$

(2.04
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 

























 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities
 
$
89,650
 
$
64,708
 
$
128,869
 
$
57,488
 
$
125,531
 


 Working capital (deficit)
 
$
17,171
 
$
754
 
$
39,367
 
$
(5,378
)
$
66,346
 


 Total assets
 
$
108,073
 
$
89,374
 
$
159,179
 
$
95,055
 
$
163,077
 


 Long-term debt, net of discount
 
$
92,256
 
$
91,540
 
$
112,825
 
$
83,170
 
$
35,355
 


 Total stockholders' equity (deficit)
 
$
(85,806
)
$
(130,858
)
$
(116,678
)
$
(73,701
)
$
38,027
 




58



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements about our expectations related to the progress and success of drug discovery activities conducted by Array and by our
collaborators, our ability to obtain additional capital to fund our operations and/or reduce our research and development spending, realizing new revenue streams and obtaining future
out-licensing collaboration agreements that include up-front, milestone and/or royalty payments, our ability to realize up-front, milestone and royalty payments
under our existing or any future agreements, future research and development spending and projections relating to the level of cash we expect to use in operations, our working capital requirements and
our future headcount requirements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates,"
"potential," or "continue," or the negative thereof or other comparable terms. These statements are based on current expectations, projections and assumptions made by management and are not guarantees
of future performance. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, these expectations or any of the forward-looking
statements could prove to be incorrect and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition, as well as any
forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the factors set forth under the heading "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. All forward looking statements are made as of the date hereof and, unless required by law, we undertake no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 
The
following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes to those statements included elsewhere in this
Annual Report. Our fiscal year ends on June 30. When we refer to a fiscal year or quarter, we are referring to the year in which the fiscal year ends and the quarters during that fiscal year.
Therefore, fiscal 2012 refers to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. 
 Overview  
We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of targeted small-molecule drugs to treat patients
afflicted with cancer and inflammatory diseases. We are building late-stage development capabilities, with two wholly-owned programs, ARRY-614 and ARRY-520, and
three partnered programs, Selumetinib partnered with AstraZeneca, MEK162 partnered with Novartis, and Danoprevir, an NS3 protease inhibitor, partnered with InterMune / Roche, having the potential to
advance into registration trials by the end of 2013. 
59



 
Table of Contents
Our
most advanced proprietary clinical programs include: 













Proprietary Program
 
Indication
 
Clinical Status


 


 
 

 
 

 


1. ARRY-520
 
Kinesin spindle protein, or KSP, inhibitor for multiple myeloma
 
Phase 2


2. ARRY-614
 
p38/Tie2 dual inhibitor for myelodysplastic syndromes, or MDS
 
Phase 1


3. ARRY-797
 
p38 inhibitor for pain
 
Phase 2


4. ARRY-502
 
CRTh2 antagonist for asthma
 
Phase 2




In
addition, we have 10 partner-funded clinical programs including two MEK inhibitors in Phase 2 clinical trials: selumetinib with AstraZeneca and MEK162 with Novartis: 















Drug Candidate
 
Indication
 
Partner
 
Clinical Status


 


 
 

 
 

 
 

 


1. Selumetinib
 
MEK inhibitor for cancer
 
AstraZeneca, PLC
 
Phase 2


2. MEK162
 
MEK inhibitor for cancer
 
Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd.
 
Phase 2


3. Danoprevir
 
Hepatitis C virus protease inhibitor
 
InterMune (now owned by Roche Holding AG)
 
Phase 2


4. AMG 151
 
Glucokinase activator for Type 2 diabetes
 
Amgen Inc.
 
Phase 2


5. ARRY-543/ASLAN001
 
HER2/EGFR inhibitor for gastric cancer
 
ASLAN Pharmaceuticals Pte Ltd.
 
Phase 2


6. GDC-0068
 
AKT inhibitor for cancer
 
Genentech Inc.
 
Phase 2


7. LY2603618
 
Chk-1 inhibitor for cancer
 
Eli Lilly and Company
 
Phase 2


8. GDC-0575 and GDC-0425
 
Chk-1 inhibitors for cancer
 
Genentech Inc.
 
Phase 1b


9. ARRY-382
 
cFMS inhibitor for cancer
 
Celgene Corporation
 
Phase 1


10. VTX-2337
 
Toll-like receptor for cancer
 
VentiRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
Phase 1b




We
also have a portfolio of proprietary and partnered drug discovery programs generated by our internal discovery efforts. Our internal drug discovery programs include inhibitors that target Trk
receptors for the 
60



 
Table of Contents
treatment
of pain and G-protein-coupled receptor 119 for the treatment of diabetes. We may choose to out-license select promising candidates through research partnerships. 
Any information we report about the development plans or the progress or results of clinical trials or other development activities of our partners is based on information that
is publicly disclosed.
Our
significant collaborators include:


•Amgen – We entered into a worldwide strategic
collaboration with Amgen in December 2009 to develop and commercialize our glucokinase activator, AMG 151, which is currently in Phase 2 development for Type 2 diabetes, and to discover
potential back-up compounds for AMG 151. 
•ASLAN Pharmaceuticals – We entered into a collaboration
and license agreement with ASLAN Pharmaceuticals in July 2011 to develop Array's HER2 / EGFR inhibitor, ASLAN001, which is currently in a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with gastric cancer.  
•AstraZeneca – In December 2003, we entered into a
collaboration and license agreement with AstraZeneca under which AstraZeneca received a license to three of our MEK inhibitors for cancer, including selumetinib, which is currently in multiple
Phase 2 clinical trials. 
•Celgene – We entered into a worldwide strategic
collaboration agreement with Celgene in September 2007 focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapeutics in cancer and inflammation. The most advanced drug is
ARRY-382, a cFMS inhibitor for cancer, which is currently in a Phase 1 clinical trial. 
•Genentech – We entered into a worldwide strategic
collaboration agreement with Genentech in January 2003, which was expanded in 2005, 2008, and 2009, and is focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapeutics. The most
advanced drug is GDC-0068, an AKT inhibitor for cancer, which is currently in a Phase 2 trial. The other programs under this collaboration are in preclinical development. In August
2011, we entered into an oncology partnership with Genentech for the development of each company's small-molecule Checkpoint kinase 1 (ChK-1) program. The programs include Genentech's
compound GDC-0425 (RG7602) and Array's compound, GDC-0575, both of which are in Phase 1 clinical trials in patients with cancer.  
•Novartis – We entered into a worldwide strategic
collaboration with Novartis in April 2010 to develop and commercialize our MEK inhibitor, MEK162, and other MEK inhibitors identified in the agreement. MEK162 is currently in numerous Phase 1b
and Phase 2 clinical trials in patients with cancer. 
•InterMune (program acquired by Roche) – We entered into
a collaboration with InterMune in 2002, which resulted in the joint discovery of danoprevir, a novel small molecule inhibitor of the Hepatitis C Virus NS3/4A protease. Roche Holding AG acquired
danoprevir from InterMune in 2010. Danoprevir is currently in Phase 2b clinical trials. 

 Business Development and Collaborator Concentrations  
We currently license or partner certain of our compounds and/or programs and enter into collaborations directly with pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies through opportunities identified by our business development group, senior management, scientists and customer referrals. 
61




 










Table of Contents 
In general, our collaborators may terminate their collaboration agreements with 90 to 180 days' prior notice. Our agreement with Genentech can be terminated with
120 days' notice. Celgene may terminate its agreement with us with six months' notice. Amgen may terminate its agreement with us at any time upon notice of 60 or 90 days depending on the
development activities going on at the time of such notice. Novartis may terminate its agreement with us on a program by program basis with 180 days' notice. 
Additional
information related to the concentration of revenue among our collaborators is reported in Note 2 – Segments, Geographic Information and
Significant Collaborations to the audited financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 
All
of our collaboration agreements are denominated in U.S. dollars. 
 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our accompanying financial statements, which
have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We regularly review our estimates and assumptions. These estimates and
assumptions, which are based upon historical experience and on various other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Reported amounts and disclosures may have been different had management used different estimates and assumptions or if
different conditions had occurred in the periods presented. 
Below
is a discussion of the policies and estimates that we believe involve a high degree of judgment and complexity. 
 Revenue Recognition  
We recognize revenue based on four criteria, each of which must be met, in order to recognize revenue for the performance of services or the shipment
of products. Revenue is recognized when (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (b) products are delivered or as services are rendered, (c) the sales price is fixed or
determinable and (d) collectability is reasonably assured. 
We
follow ASC 605-25 "Revenue Recognition – Multiple-Element Arrangements" to determine the recognition of revenue under collaboration agreements that include multiple
elements, including research and development services, achievement of development and commercialization milestones and drug product manufacturing. This standard provides guidance on the accounting for
arrangements involving the delivery of multiple elements when the delivery of separate units of accounting occurs in different reporting periods. This standard addresses the determination of the units
of accounting for multiple-element arrangements and how the arrangement's consideration should be allocated to each unit of accounting. We adopted this accounting standard on a prospective basis for
all multiple-element arrangements entered into on or after July 1, 2010 and for any multiple-element arrangements that were entered into prior to July 1, 2010 but materially modified on
or after July 1, 2010. The adoption of this standard may result in revenue recognition patterns for future agreements that are materially different from those recognized for our past
collaboration arrangements. 
For
our multiple element transactions entered into on or after July 1, 2010, we evaluate the deliverables to determine if they meet the separation criteria under the standard and have
stand-alone value and we allocate revenue to the elements that meet the separation criteria based on their relative selling prices. 
62



 
Table of Contents
We
treat deliverables in an arrangement that do not meet the separation criteria in this standard as a single unit of accounting, generally applying applicable revenue recognition guidance for the
final deliverable to the combined unit of accounting. Since the adoption of this standard, we have entered into one agreement with multiple elements. We have had no material modifications to
arrangements that were entered into prior to July 1, 2010. 
We
recognize revenue from non-refundable up-front payments and license fees on a straight-line basis over the term of performance under the agreement. When the
performance period is not specifically identifiable from the agreement, we estimate the performance period based upon provisions contained within the agreement, such as the duration of the research or
development term, the existence, or likelihood of achievement of development commitments and any other significant commitments. For agreements entered into prior to July 1, 2010, the
performance period is generally the estimated research or development term. For agreements entered into after this date, the performance period for up-front license fees may be shorter
because the performance period, measured as the time between the execution date and the completion of the inseparable technology transfer, is typically a shorter period, generally up to six months. 
We
defer the up-front payments and record them as Deferred Revenue upon receipt, pending recognition. The deferred portions of payments are classified as a short-term or
long-term liability in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets, depending on the period over which revenue is expected to be recognized. 
Most
of our agreements provide for milestone payments. In certain cases, we recognize all or a portion of each milestone payment as revenue when the specific milestone is achieved based on the
applicable percentage earned of the estimated research or development effort, or other performance obligation that has elapsed, to the total estimated research and/or development effort. In other
cases, when the milestone payment is attributed to our future development obligations, we recognize the revenue on a straight-line basis over the estimated remaining development effort. 
We
periodically review the expected performance periods under each of our agreements that provide for non-refundable up-front payments and license fees and milestone
payments. We adjust the amortization periods when appropriate to reflect changes in assumptions relating to the duration of expected performance periods. We could accelerate revenue recognition for
non-refundable license fees, up-front payments and milestone payments in the event of early termination of programs. Alternatively, we could decelerate such revenue recognition
if programs are extended. While changes to such estimates have no impact on our reported cash flows, our reported revenue is significantly influenced by our estimates of the period over which our
obligations are expected to be performed and, therefore, over which revenue is recognized. 
 Cost of Revenue and Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Programs  
We incur costs in connection with performing research and development activities which consist mainly of compensation, associated fringe benefits,
share-based compensation, preclinical and clinical outsourcing costs and other collaboration-related costs, including supplies, small tools, facilities, depreciation, recruiting and relocation costs
and other direct and indirect chemical handling and laboratory support costs. We allocate these costs between Cost of Revenue and Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Programs based upon
the respective time spent by our scientists on development conducted for our collaborators and for our internal proprietary programs. Cost of Revenue represents the costs associated with research and
development, including preclinical and clinical trials, conducted by us for our collaborators. Research and Development for Proprietary Programs consists of direct and indirect costs for our specific
proprietary programs. We do not bear any risk of 
63



 
Table of Contents
failure
for performing these activities and the payments are not contingent on the success or failure of the research program. Accordingly, we expense these costs when incurred. 
Where
our collaboration agreements provide for us to conduct research and development on a number of programs and for which our partner has an option to obtain the right to conduct further development
and to commercialize a portion of the programs subject to the agreement, we attribute a portion of its research and development costs to Cost of Revenue based on the percentage of total programs under
the agreement that we conclude is likely to continue to be funded by the partner. These costs may not be incurred equally across all programs. In addition, we continually evaluate the progress of
development activities under these agreements and if events or circumstances change in future periods that we reasonably believe would make it unlikely that a collaborator would continue to fund the
same percentage of programs, we will adjust the allocation accordingly. See Note 6 – Deferred Revenue, for further information
about our collaborations. 
 Accrued Outsourcing Costs  
Substantial portions of our preclinical studies and clinical trials are performed by third-party laboratories, medical centers, contract research
organizations and other vendors (collectively "CROs"). These CROs generally bill monthly or quarterly for services performed or bill based upon milestone achievement. For preclinical studies, we
accrue expenses based upon estimated percentage of work completed and the contract milestones remaining. For clinical studies, expenses are accrued based upon the number of patients enrolled and the
duration of the study. We monitor patient enrollment, the progress of clinical studies and related activities to the extent possible through internal reviews of data reported to us by the CROs,
correspondence with the CROs and clinical site visits. Our estimates depend on the timeliness and accuracy of the data provided by the CROs regarding the status of each program and total program
spending. We periodically evaluate our estimates to determine if adjustments are necessary or appropriate based on information we receive. 
 Fair Value Measurements  
Our financial instruments are recognized and measured at fair value in our financial statements and primarily consist of cash and cash equivalents,
marketable securities, long-term investments, trade receivables and payables, long-term debt, embedded derivatives associated with the long-term debt and warrants.
We measure the fair value of assets and liabilities based on a three-level hierarchy that reflects market information available and the level of judgment involved in estimating fair values for various
types of assets and liabilities. The valuation techniques we use to measure fair value are discussed in more detail in Note 1 – Overview and Basis of
Presentation to the financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 
Considerable
judgment is required in interpreting market and other data to develop estimates of fair value for assets or liabilities for which there are no quoted prices in active markets, which
include our ARS, warrants issued by us in connection with our long-term debt and the embedded derivatives associated with the long-term debt. The use of different assumptions
and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on their estimated fair value. Accordingly, the fair value estimates we disclose may not be indicative of the amount that we or holders of
the instruments could realize in a current market exchange. 
We
periodically review the realizability of each investment when impairment indicators exist with respect to the investment. If an other-than-temporary impairment of the
value of an investment is deemed to exist, the cost basis of the investment is written down to its then estimated fair value. 
64



 
Table of Contents
 Long-term Debt and Embedded Derivatives  
The terms of our long-term debt are discussed in detail in Note 8 –
Long-term Debt to our audited financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The accounting for these arrangements
is complex and is based upon significant estimates by management. We review all debt agreements to determine the appropriate accounting treatment when the agreement is entered into and review all
amendments to our debt agreements to determine if the changes require accounting for the amendment as a modification, or as an extinguishment and new debt. We also review each long-term
debt arrangement to determine if any feature of the debt requires bifurcation and/or separate valuation. These may include hybrid instruments, which are comprised of at least two components ((1) a
debt host instrument and (2) one or more conversion features), warrants and other embedded derivatives, such as puts and other rights of the debt holder. 
We
currently have two embedded derivatives related to our long-term debt with Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P. and Deerfield Private Design International Fund, L.P. (who
we refer to collectively as Deerfield). One of the embedded derivatives is a variable interest rate structure that constitutes a liquidity-linked variable spread feature. The other is a significant
transaction contingent put option relating to Deerfield's ability to accelerate the repayment of the debt in the event of certain changes in control of our company. Such event would occur if the
acquirer did not meet certain financial conditions, based on size and credit worthiness. Collectively, they are referred to as the "Embedded Derivatives." Under the fair value hierarchy, we measure
the fair value of the Embedded Derivatives using Level III, or unobservable inputs, as there is no active market for them, and calculate fair value using a combination of a discounted cash flow
analysis and the Black-Derman-Toy interest rate model. 
The
fair value of the variable interest rate structure is based on our estimate of the probable effective interest rate over the term of the Deerfield credit facilities. Because the applicable
interest rate is based on our cash position during the term of the loan, the determination of the probably effective interest rate requires us to estimate our cash flow forecasts, which include our
expectations of future cash inflows from up-front fees, milestone payments and issuances of equity. The fair value of the put option is based on our estimate of the probability that a
change in control that triggers Deerfield's right to accelerate the debt will occur. With those inputs, the fair value of each Embedded Derivative is calculated as the difference between the fair
value of the Deerfield
credit facilities if the Embedded Derivatives are included and the fair value of the Deerfield credit facilities if the Embedded Derivatives are excluded. 
Due
to the inherent complexity in valuing the Deerfield credit facilities and the Embedded Derivatives, we engaged a third-party valuation firm to perform the valuation as part of our overall fair
value analysis. The assumptions used in determining the estimated fair value of the Embedded Derivatives were based on management's judgment and the use of different assumptions could result in
significantly different estimated fair values. 
The
fair value of the Embedded Derivatives is recorded as Derivative Liabilities in the accompanying Balance Sheets. We recorded fair values for the Embedded Derivatives of $656 thousand and
$540 thousand at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The initial fair value of the Embedded Derivatives was recorded as Derivative Liabilities and as Debt Discount in our Balance
Sheets. Each quarter, we determine whether any adjustments to the fair value of the Embedded Derivatives based on management's then current assumptions are necessary and record any changes in value to
Derivative Liabilities in the Balance Sheets and Interest Expense in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 
Warrants
that we have issued in connection with our long-term debt arrangements have been classified as equity. We valued the warrants at issuance based on a Black-Scholes option pricing
model and then 
65



 
Table of Contents
allocated
a portion of the proceeds under the debt to the warrants based upon their relative fair values. The warrants are recorded in Stockholders' Deficit with the offset to debt discount. The debt
discount is being amortized from the respective draw dates to the end of the term of the Deerfield credit facilities using the effective interest method and recorded as Interest Expense in the
accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 
Transaction
fees paid in connection with our long-term debt arrangements that qualify for capitalization are recorded as Other Long-Term Assets in the Balance Sheets and
amortized to Interest Expense in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss using the effective interest method over the term of the underlying debt agreement. 
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820):
Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. This ASU provides a consistent definition of fair value between U.S. GAAP and
International Financial Reporting Standards. Additionally, the ASU changes certain fair value measurement principles and expands the disclosures for fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is
effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and is to be applied prospectively. We adopted this disclosure standard in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and
adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 
In
June 2011, the FASB issued FASB ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. This ASU provides companies
the option to present the components of net income and other comprehensive income either as one continuous statement of comprehensive income or as two separate but consecutive statements. It
eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity. The provisions of this new guidance are effective for fiscal
years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this new guidance will not impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
Other
recent accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB (including its Emerging Issues Task Force) and the Securities Exchange Commission did not or are not believed by management to have a material
impact on our present or future financial statements. 
 Results of Operations  
 License and Milestone Revenue  
License and Milestone Revenue consists of up-front license fees and ongoing milestone payments from collaborators. 
Below
is a summary of our License and Milestone Revenue (dollars in thousands): 































 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 
Change 2012 vs. 2011 
 
Change 2011 vs. 2010 
 


 
 
2012
 
2011
 
2010
 
$
 
%
 
$
 
%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 License revenue
 
$
52,006
 
$
42,477
 
$
27,489
 
$
9,529
 
 
22.4%
 
$
14,988
 
 
54.5%
 


 Milestone revenue
 
 
19,243
 
 
10,949
 
 
4,996
 
 
8,294
 
 
75.8%
 
 
5,953
 
 
119.2%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total license and milestone revenue
 
$
71,249
 
$
53,426
 
$
32,485
 
$
17,823
 
 
33.4%
 
$
20,941
 
 
64.5%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




66




 










Table of Contents 
Fiscal 2012 compared to Fiscal 2011 – License revenue increased by $9.5 million, or 22.4%, in fiscal
2012 compared to the prior year. We recognized increased license revenue of $20.9 million during the current fiscal year due to our new licensing agreement with Genentech for our
Chk-1 program, ARRY-575. There was no corresponding revenue for the Chk-1 program in fiscal 2011. Partially offsetting this increase was reduced revenue from the
suspended amortization of the up-front license fees previously received from Celgene following temporary suspension of the associated research activities (see
Note 6 – Deferred Revenue – Celgene Corporation to the accompanying financial statements). 
Milestone
revenue increased $8.3 million, or 75.8%, over the prior year primarily due to the recognition of $7.2 million of the $8.5 million milestone payment we received from
Amgen during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 for enrollment of patients in a Phase 2 study of AMG 151 / ARRY-403. During fiscal 2012, we also recognized $1.3 million
additional revenue related to a full year of amortization for the $10.0 million Celgene milestone payment received in fiscal 2011. 
Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010 – During fiscal 2011, license revenue increase by approximately $15.0 million, or 54.5%.
We recognized $9.0 million and $8.0 million during the current fiscal year in additional license revenue under our collaborations with Amgen and Novartis, respectively. The fiscal 2011
amounts represented a full year of revenue compared to only six and three months of revenue, respectively, recognized under the these collaborations during fiscal 2010 as the collaborations were not
in place for the full year. This increased revenue was partially offset by decreased revenue of $1.6 million recognized under our collaboration with Celgene due to the longer period over which
revenue is recognized following our conclusion that the remaining estimated performance period under the collaboration with Celgene extended from September 2011 to March 2012 effective
October 1, 2010 (see Note 6 – Deferred Revenue – Celgene Corporation to the accompanying financial
statements). 
Milestone
revenue increased in fiscal 2011 by $6.0 million, or 119.2%, over the prior year. This increase consisted of $4.0 million in additional revenue from our collaboration with
Novartis resulting from the $10.0 million milestone payment received in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and from additional milestone revenue recognized under the full year of the agreement
in fiscal 2011. We also recognized an additional $2.5 million in revenue under our collaboration with Celgene from the $10.0 million milestone payment received in the second quarter of
fiscal 2011. 
 Collaboration Revenue  
Collaboration Revenue consists of revenue for our performance of drug discovery and development activities in collaboration with partners, which
include co-development of proprietary drug candidates we out-license as well as screening, lead generation and lead optimization research, custom synthesis and process research
and to a small degree the development and sale of chemical compounds. 
Below
is a summary of our Collaboration Revenue (dollars in thousands): 































 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 
Change 2012 vs. 2011 
 
Change 2011 vs. 2010 
 


 
 
2012
 
2011
 
2010
 
$
 
%
 
$
 
%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Collaboration revenue
 
$
13,886
 
$
18,475
 
$
21,395
 
$
(4,589
)
 
(24.8%
)
$
(2,920
)
 
(13.6%
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Fiscal 2012 compared to Fiscal 2011 – Collaboration Revenue decreased by $4.6 million,
or 24.8%, due to fewer scientists engaged on our collaborations with Genentech and Amgen during the second half of fiscal 2012 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease was partially
offset by revenue for FTEs working on our collaborations with Celgene and DNA BioPharma for which there was no corresponding revenue in fiscal 2011. 
67



 
Table of Contents
Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010 – Collaboration Revenue decreased by $2.9 million, or 13.6%, in fiscal 2011. The decrease
was primarily due to fewer scientists engaged on our collaboration with Genentech during the second half of fiscal 2011, which resulted in $5.0 million less revenue compared to fiscal 2010.
This decrease was partially offset by increased revenue of $1.7 million and $700 thousand from funded research under our collaborations with Amgen and Novartis, respectively. 
 Cost of Revenue  
Cost of Revenue represents costs attributable to discovery and development including preclinical and clinical trials we may conduct for our
collaborators and the cost of chemical compounds sold from our inventory. These costs consist mainly of compensation, associated fringe benefits, share-based compensation, preclinical and clinical
outsourcing costs and other collaboration-related costs, including supplies, small tools, travel and meals, facilities, depreciation, recruiting and relocation costs and other direct and indirect
chemical handling and laboratory support costs. 
Below
is a summary of our Cost of Revenue (dollars in thousands): 































 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 
Change 2012 vs. 2011 
 
Change 2011 vs. 2010 
 


 
 
2012
 
2011
 
2010
 
$
 
%
 
$
 
%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cost of revenue
 
$
24,261
 
$
28,916
 
$
28,322
 
$
(4,655
)
 
(16.1%
)
$
594
 
 
2.1%
 


 Cost of revenue as a percentage of total revenue
 
 
28.5%
 
 
40.2%
 
 
52.6%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Fiscal 2012 compared to Fiscal 2011 – Cost of Revenue decreased $4.7 million, or
16.1%, during fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. The decrease was primarily the result of fewer scientists engaged on our collaborations with Genentech and Amgen during the second half of fiscal
2012. Cost of Revenue decreased as a percentage of total revenue due to the increased License and Milestone Revenue recognized in fiscal 2012 as discussed above. 
Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010 – During fiscal 2011, Cost of Revenue increased $594 thousand, or 2.1%, but decreased as a
percentage of total revenue. The increase in absolute dollars was related to the restructuring charges incurred during the fourth quarter as discussed under  Note 9 – Restructuring Charges – Fiscal 2011
Restructuring to the financial statements contained elsewhere
in this Annual Report. We recorded $1.3 million to Cost of Revenue from the reduction in force. In addition, related to the restructuring, we vacated a portion of one of our significant
laboratory facilities at our Longmont facility and recorded $339 thousand to Cost of Revenue in accelerated depreciation on leasehold improvements. This increase was partially offset by reduced
outsourcing costs to advance our partnered programs with Amgen and Novartis through clinical trials, as our partners now bear all or an increased share of the development costs compared to the prior
year. The decrease as a percentage of revenue is the result of increased License and Milestone Revenue recognized during the year which did not have a direct impact on our expenses. 
 Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug Discovery  
Our Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug Discovery include costs associated with our proprietary drug programs for scientific and
clinical personnel, supplies, inventory, equipment, small tools, travel and meals, depreciation, consultants, sponsored research, allocated facility costs, costs related to preclinical and clinical
trials and share-based compensation. We manage our proprietary programs based on scientific data and achievement of research plan goals. Our scientists record their time to specific projects when
possible; however, many activities simultaneously benefit multiple projects and cannot be readily attributed to a specific project. Accordingly, the accurate assignment of time and 
68



 
Table of Contents
costs
to a specific project is difficult and may not give a true indication of the actual costs of a particular project. As a result, we do not report costs on a program basis. 
Below
is a summary of our research and development expenses by categories of costs for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): 































 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 
Change 2012 vs. 2011 
 
Change 2011 vs. 2010 
 


 
 
2012
 
2011
 
2010
 
$
 
%
 
$
 
%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Salaries, benefits and share-based compensation
 
$
22,832
 
$
29,082
 
$
31,358
 
$
(6,250
)
 
(21.5%
)
$
(2,276
)
 
(7.3%
)


 Outsourced services and consulting
 
 
17,680
 
 
13,843
 
 
19,131
 
 
3,837
 
 
27.7%
 
 
(5,288
)
 
(27.6%
)


 Laboratory supplies
 
 
6,652
 
 
9,328
 
 
10,734
 
 
(2,676
)
 
(28.7%
)
 
(1,406
)
 
(13.1%
)


 Facilities and depreciation
 
 
8,066
 
 
9,702
 
 
9,697
 
 
(1,636
)
 
(16.9%
)
 
5
 
 
0.1%
 


 Other
 
 
1,489
 
 
1,543
 
 
1,568
 
 
(54
)
 
(3.5%
)
 
(25
)
 
(1.6%
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total research and development for proprietary drug discovery
 
$
56,719
 
$
63,498
 
$
72,488
 
$
(6,779
)
 
(10.7%
)
$
(8,990
)
 
(12.4%
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Fiscal 2012 compared to Fiscal 2011 – Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug
Discovery decreased $6.8 million, or 10.7%, during fiscal 2012 compared to the prior year. The decrease was the result of our new license agreement with Genentech and our new collaboration and
license agreement with ASLAN Pharmaceuticals which resulted in the corresponding program costs shifting to the collaboration partner. 
Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010 – Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug Discovery for fiscal 2011 decreased by
$9.0 million because our development costs for AMG 151 and MEK162 both shifted out of Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug Discovery to Cost of Revenue as a result of
partnering those programs with Amgen and Novartis during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2010, respectively. Those decreases were partially offset by the increased development costs from
continuing to progress our most advanced wholly-owned drug programs through the clinic. Also included in fiscal 2011 Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug Discovery were restructuring
charges incurred during the fourth quarter as discussed in Note 9 – Restructuring Charges – Fiscal 2011
Restructuring within the notes to the financial statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. We recorded $2.1 million and $1.5 million to Research and
Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug Discovery from the reduction in force and accelerated depreciation on leasehold improvements, respectively. 
 General and Administrative Expenses  
General and Administrative Expenses consist mainly of compensation and associated fringe benefits not included in Cost of Revenue or Research and
Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug Discovery and include other management, business development, accounting, information technology and administration costs, including patent filing and
prosecution, recruiting and relocation, consulting and professional services, travel and meals, sales commissions, facilities, depreciation and other office expenses. 
Below
is a summary of our General and Administrative Expenses (dollars in thousands): 































 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 
Change 2012 vs. 2011 
 
Change 2011 vs. 2010 
 


 
 
2012
 
2011
 
2010
 
$
 
%
 
$
 
%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 General and administrative
 
$
15,202
 
$
16,261
 
$
17,121
 
$
(1,059
)
 
(6.5%
)
$
(860
)
 
(5.0%
)




69



 
Table of Contents
Fiscal 2012 compared to Fiscal 2011 – General and Administrative Expenses decreased
$1.1 million, or 6.5%, during fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. The decrease was primarily for lower compensation-related costs following the reduction in force during June 2011 as well as a
reduction in stock compensation expense related to the termination of our former CEO. Partially offsetting these decreases were additional costs incurred to hire our new CEO and search fees for our
new board member. Additionally, we spent approximately $275 thousand less on business-related tax expenses. 
Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010 – General and Administrative Expenses decreased $860 thousand, or 5.0%, in fiscal 2011
compared to fiscal 2010 primarily as a result of a $760 thousand decrease in stock compensation expense from fully vested options as well as a $575 thousand decrease in the estimated
liability for our fiscal 2011 performance bonus compared to the prior year. We also incurred approximately $400 thousand additional expense during fiscal 2011 to obtain and protect our patents. 
 Other Income (Expense)  
Below is a summary of our Other Income (Expense) (dollars in thousands): 































 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 
Change 2012 vs. 2011 
 
Change 2011 vs. 2010 
 


 
 
2012
 
2011
 
2010
 
$
 
%
 
$
 
%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Realized gains on auction rate securities, net
 
$
-    
 
$
1,891
 
$
1,305
 
$
(1,891
)
 
(100.0%
)
$
586
 
 
44.9%
 


 Loss on prepayment of long-term debt, net
 
 
(942
)
 
(6,340
)
 
-    
 
 
5,398
 
 
(85.1%
)
 
(6,340
)
 
-    
 


 Interest income
 
 
32
 
 
406
 
 
864
 
 
(374
)
 
(92.1%
)
 
(458
)
 
(53.0%
)


 Interest expense
 
 
(11,624
)
 
(15,507
)
 
(15,749
)
 
3,883
 
 
(25.0%
)
 
242
 
 
(1.5%
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other income (expense), net
 
$
(12,534
)
$
(19,550
)
$
(13,580
)
$
7,016
 
 
(35.9%
)
$
(5,970
)
 
44.0%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Summaries of the gains recorded related to our ARS are reported in Note 3 – Marketable
Securities to the accompanying financial statements. 
Loss
on prepayment of long-term debt, net decreased $5.4 million in fiscal 2012 compared to the prior year. The fiscal 2012 loss was for a proportional write down of the debt
discount and debt issuance costs related to a $4.2 million payment to Deerfield. The fiscal 2011 loss resulted from the May 2011 Deerfield debt modification. A summary of the loss on prepayment
of long-term debt, net related to the modification of the Deerfield credit facilities in May 2011 and Interest Expense are reported in  Note 8 – Long-term Debt of the accompanying
financial statements. 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  
We have incurred operating losses and an accumulated deficit as a result of ongoing research and development spending since inception. As of
June 30, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $570.7 million. We had net losses of $23.6 million, $56.3 million and $77.6 million for the years ended
June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
We
have historically funded our operations from up-front fees and license and milestone payments received under our collaboration and out-licensing transactions, from the
issuance and sale of equity securities and through debt provided by our credit facilities. For example, we received net proceeds of approximately $56.1 million in February 2012 from an
underwritten public offering of our common stock 
70



 
Table of Contents
and
have received $174 million in the last 32 months through the date of filing this Annual Report, including the following payments under our
collaborations:


•In December 2009, we received a $60 million up-front payment from Amgen Inc. under a
Collaboration and License Agreement. •In April 2010, we received $45 million in up-front and milestone payments under a License Agreement
with Novartis Pharmaceutical International Ltd. •In December 2010, we received a $10 million milestone payment under a License Agreement with Celgene Corporation.
•In May 2011, we received a $10 million milestone payment under a License Agreement with Novartis Pharmaceutical
International Ltd. •In September 2011, we received a $28 million milestone payment under a License Agreement with
Genentech, Inc. •In June 2012, we received an $8.5 million milestone payment from Amgen following achievement of a
pre-defined patient enrollment milestone in a Phase 2 trial. 

Until
we can generate sufficient levels of cash from operations, which we do not expect to achieve in the foreseeable future, we will continue to utilize existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities, and will continue to depend on funds provided from the sources mentioned above, which may not be available or forthcoming. 
During
fiscal 2013, we expect to begin paying our share of the combined development costs since inception of the MEK162 program, as discussed in  Note 9 – Deferred Revenue – Novartis International
Pharmaceutical Ltd. As of June 30, 2012,
we have reported a $9.2 million payable in the accompanying Balance Sheet as co-development liability for this obligation. 
Management
believes that the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of June 30, 2012 will enable us to continue to fund operations in the normal course of business for at least the
next 12 months. Because sufficient funds may not be available to us when needed from existing collaborations, we expect that we will be required to continue to fund our operations in part
through the sale of debt or equity securities and through licensing select programs that include up-front and/or milestone payments. 
Our
ability to successfully raise sufficient funds through the sale of debt or equity securities when needed is subject to many risks and uncertainties and, even if we are successful, future equity
issuances would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. We also may not successfully consummate new collaborations that provide for additional up-front fees or milestone payments
or we may not earn milestone payments under such collaborations when anticipated or at all. Our ability to realize milestone or royalty payments under existing collaboration agreements and to enter
into new partnering arrangements that generate additional revenue through up-front fees and milestone or royalty payments is subject to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our
control and include the following:


•The drug development process is risky and highly uncertain and we may not be successful in generating
proof-of-concept data to create partnering opportunities and, even if we are, we or our collaborators may not be successful in commercializing drug candidates we create; •We may fail to
select the best drug from our wholly-owned pipeline to advance and invest in registration, or
Phase 3 studies; •Our collaborators have substantial control and discretion over the timing and continued development and marketing of drug
candidates we create and, therefore, we may not receive milestone, royalty or other payments when anticipated or at all; •The drug candidates we develop may not obtain regulatory
approval; 

71



 
Table of Contents


•If regulatory approval is received, drugs we develop will remain subject to regulation or may not gain market acceptance,
which could delay or prevent us from generating milestone, royalty revenue or product revenue from the commercialization of these drugs; and •We cannot control or predict the spending
priorities and willingness of pharmaceutical companies to in-license
drugs for further development and commercialization. 

Our
assessment of our future need for funding and our ability to continue to fund our operations for the next 12 months is a forward-looking statement that is based on assumptions that may
prove to be wrong and that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Our actual future capital requirements could vary as a result of a number of factors,
including:


•Our ability to enter into agreements to out-license, co-develop our proprietary drug candidates
and the timing of payments under those agreements throughout each candidate's development stage; •The number and scope of our research and development programs; •The progress and success of our preclinical and clinical development activities; •The progress and success of the development efforts of our
collaborators; •Our ability to maintain current collaboration agreements; •The costs involved in enforcing patent claims and
other intellectual property rights; and/or 
•The expenses associated with unforeseen litigation, regulatory changes, competition and technological developments,
general economic and market conditions and the extent to which we acquire or invest in other businesses, products and technologies. 

If
we are unable to obtain additional funding from these or other sources when needed, or to the extent needed, it may be necessary to significantly reduce the current rate of spending through further
reductions in staff and delaying, scaling back, or stopping certain research and development programs, including more costly Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials on our wholly owned
programs as these programs progress into later stage development. Insufficient liquidity may also require us to relinquish greater rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on
less favorable terms to us and our stockholders than we would otherwise choose in order to obtain up-front license fees needed to fund operations. These events could prevent us from
successfully executing our operating plan and in the future could raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Further, as discussed in  Note 8 – Long-term Debt, the entire debt balance of $92.6 million outstanding with Deerfield Private Design
Fund, L.P. and certain of its affiliates (collectively referred to as Deerfield) becomes due and payable if our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities falls below
$20 million at the end of a fiscal quarter. Based on our current forecasts and expectations, which are subject to many factors outside of our control, we do not anticipate that our cash and
cash equivalents and marketable securities will fall below this level prior to maturity of such debt. 
 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities  
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid financial instruments that are readily convertible to cash and have maturities of
90 days or less from the date of purchase. 
Short-term
marketable securities consist primarily of U.S. government agency obligations with maturities of greater than 90 days when purchased. Long-term marketable
securities as of June 30, 2010 consisted primarily of our investments in ARS, all of which we have sold as of March 31, 2011. See  Note 3 – Marketable Securities to the
accompanying financial statements for more information regarding our ARS. 
Long-term
marketable securities as of June 30, 2012 primarily related to our Deferred Compensation Plan. 
72




 











Table of Contents 
Below is a summary of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (dollars in thousands): 































 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 
Change 2012 vs. 2011 
 
Change 2011 vs. 2010 
 


 
 
2012
 
2011
 
2010
 
$
 
%
 
$
 
%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
55,799
 
$
48,099
 
$
32,846
 
$
7,700
 
 
16.0%
 
$
15,253
 
 
46.4%
 


 Marketable securities – short-term
 
 
33,378
 
 
15,986
 
 
78,664
 
 
17,392
 
 
108.8%
 
 
(62,678
)
 
(79.7%
)


 Marketable securities – long-term
 
 
473
 
 
623
 
 
17,359
 
 
(150
)
 
(24.1%
)
 
(16,736
)
 
(96.4%
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
89,650
 
$
64,708
 
$
128,869
 
$
24,942
 
 
38.5%
 
$
(64,161
)
 
(49.8%
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Cash Flow Activities  
Below is a summary of our cash flows (dollars in thousands): 































 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 
Change 2012 vs. 2011 
 
Change 2011 vs. 2010 
 


 
 
2012
 
2011
 
2010
 
$
 
%
 
$
 
%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows provided by (used in):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating activities
 
$
(33,546
)
$
(65,962
)
$
17,886
 
$
32,416
 
 
(49.1%
)
$
(83,848
)
 
(468.8%
)


 Investing activities
 
 
(18,721
)
 
74,095
 
 
(69,391
)
 
(92,816
)
 
(125.3%
)
 
143,486
 
 
(206.8%
)


 Financing activities
 
 
59,967
 
 
7,120
 
 
51,149
 
 
52,847
 
 
742.2%
 
 
(44,029
)
 
(86.1%
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
7,700
 
$
15,253
 
$
(356
)
$
(7,553
)
 
(49.5%
)
$
15,609
 
 
(4,383.0%
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Fiscal 2012 compared to Fiscal 2011 – Net cash used in operating activities in fiscal 2012
was $33.5 million, compared to $66.0 million in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2012, we received $36.5 million from Genentech and Amgen for up-front and milestone payments
under our collaboration agreements with them which decreased our net loss compared to fiscal 2011. 
Net
cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(18.7) million and $74.1 million in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. During fiscal 2012, our net cash proceeds from sales of
marketable securities decreased by $95.4 million compared to the prior year. 
Net
cash provided by financing activities was $60.0 million and $7.1 million for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. The difference between the periods is primarily attributable to
$56.1 million in net proceeds received from the sale of 23 million shares of our common stock in a public offering during February 2012 and $7.0 million received from the sale of
2.9 million shares of our common stock under our Equity Distribution Agreement with Piper Jaffray & Co during the current fiscal year. This increase in net cash provided by financing
activities was reduced by the $4.2 million payment of principal under the Deerfield credit facilities. 
Fiscal 2011 compared to Fiscal 2010 – Net cash (used in) operating activities in fiscal 2011 was $(65.9) million, compared to
$17.6 million of cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2010, we received $105 million from Amgen and Novartis in up-front and initial milestone
payments under our collaboration agreements with them which decreased our net loss compared to fiscal 2011. 
Net
cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $74.1 million and $(69.1) million in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. During fiscal 2011, we invested approximately
$650 thousand more in property and equipment than we did in the prior year. Additionally, our net cash proceeds from sales of marketable securities increased by $144 million in fiscal
2011 compared to the prior year, including increased proceeds related to sales of our ARS in the amount of $9.3 million. 
73



 
Table of Contents
Net
cash provided by financing activities was $7.1 million and $51.1 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. This decrease was primarily due to receiving net proceeds of
$39.0 million from the Deerfield credit facilities in fiscal 2010. Additionally, we received approximately $5.5 million more from sales of shares of our common stock under our Equity
Distribution Agreement with Piper Jaffray & Co during fiscal 2010. 
 Obligations and Commitments  
The following table shows our contractual obligations and commitments as of June 30, 2012 (dollars in thousands): 

























 
 
Less Than
1 Year
 
1 to 3
Years
 
4 to 5
Years
 
Over 5
Years
 
Total
 


 
 
 
 


 Debt obligations (1)
 
$
150
 
$
87,112
 
$
20,000
 
$
—
 
$
107,262
 


 Interest on debt obligations (3) (4)
 
 
6,912
 
 
13,028
 
 
1,500
 
 
—
 
 
21,440
 


 Co-development liabilities (1)
 
 
9,178
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
9,178
 


 Operating lease commitments (2)
 
 
8,175
 
 
16,464
 
 
8,653
 
 
—
 
 
33,292
 


 Purchase obligations (2)
 
 
15,222
 
 
1,232
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
16,454
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
39,637
 
$
117,836
 
$
30,153
 
$
—
 
$
187,626
 


 
 
 
 






(1)Reflected
in the accompanying Balance Sheets.  (2)These
obligations are not reflected in the accompanying Balance Sheets.  (3)Interest
on the variable debt obligations under the Term Loan with Comerica Bank is calculated at 3.25%, the interest rate in effect as of June 30,
2012.  (4)Interest
on the variable debt obligation under the credit facilities with Deerfield is calculated at 7.5%, the interest rate in effect as of June 30,
2012. 

We
are obligated under non-cancelable operating leases for all of our facilities and to a limited degree, equipment leases. Original lease terms for our facilities in effect as of
June 30, 2012 were five to 10 years and generally require us to pay the real estate taxes, certain insurance and other operating costs. Equipment lease terms generally range from three
to five years. 
Purchase
obligations totaling $14.2 million are for outsourced services for clinical trials and other research and development costs. The remaining $2.3 million is for all other purchase
commitments. 
 
 
  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     
Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows due to adverse changes in
financial and commodity market prices and fluctuations in interest rates. Following the disposition of our remaining ARS in the quarter ended March 31, 2011, we no longer have liquidity risk
associated with our ARS/marketable securities. All of our collaboration agreements and nearly all purchase orders are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, historically and as of June 30,
2012, we have had little or no exposure to market risk from changes in foreign currency or exchange rates. 
Our
investment portfolio is comprised primarily of readily marketable, high-quality securities diversified and structured to minimize market risks. We target our average portfolio maturity
at one year or less. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investments in marketable securities. Marketable securities held in our investment portfolio are
subject to changes in market value in response to changes in interest rates and liquidity. A significant change in market interest rates could 
74



 
Table of Contents
have
a material impact on interest income earned from our investment portfolio. A theoretical 100 basis point change in interest rates and security prices would impact our annual net loss positively
or negatively by $897 thousand based on the current balance of $89.7 million of investments classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term
marketable securities available for sale. 
As
of June 30, 2012, we had $107.3 million of debt outstanding, exclusive of the debt discount of $15.0 million. The term loan under our senior secured Term Loan with Comerica
Bank of $14.7 million is variable rate debt. Assuming constant debt levels, a theoretical change of 100 basis points on our current interest rate of 3.25% on the Comerica debt as of
June 30, 2012 would result in a change in our annual interest expense of $147 thousand. The interest rate on our long-term debt under the credit facilities with Deerfield is
variable based on our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. However, as long as our total cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities balances remain above $50 million, our interest rate is fixed at 7.5%. Assuming constant debt levels, a theoretical change of 100 basis points on our current rate of
interest of 7.5% on the Deerfield credit facilities as of June 30, 2012 would result in a change in our annual interest expense of $858 thousand. 
Historically
and as of June 30, 2012, we have not used foreign currency derivative instruments or engaged in hedging activities. 
 
 
  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     
The financial statements required by this item are located in Item 15 beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. 
 
 
  ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE     
None. 
 
 
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     
 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the supervision of our Chief Executive Officer and
our Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and
Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective as of June 30, 2012 to ensure that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or furnish under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:
(1) is recorded, processed and summarized effectively and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and (2) is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our disclosure controls
and procedures include components of our internal control over financial reporting. Management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting set forth below is
expressed at the level of reasonable assurance because a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the control system's
objectives will be met. 
75



 
Table of Contents
 Evaluation of Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have included a report on management's assessment of the design and
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2012. Our independent registered public
accounting firm also audited and reported on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Management's report and the independent registered public accounting firm's attestation
report are included under the captions entitled "Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in Item 15 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. 
 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of our year ended June 30, 2012 that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
 
 
  ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION     
None. 
76




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
PART III



The
information required by Part III is omitted from this report because we will file a definitive proxy statement within 120 days after the end of our
2012 fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on October 24, 2012 (the "2012 Proxy Statement"), and the information referenced below
to be included in this Part III is incorporated by reference from the 2012 Proxy Statement. 
 
 
  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE     
The information required by this item concerning our executive officers and our directors and nominees for director, our audit committee and audit
committee financial expert, and compliance with the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) is incorporated by reference from the information in the 2012 Proxy Statement under the captions
"Proposal 1 – Election of Directors," "Executive Officers" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance." 
 Code of Ethics  
We have adopted a Code of Conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer, principal
financial officer and principal accounting officer. The Code of Conduct is posted under the Investor Relations portion of our website at www.arraybiopharma.com. 
We
intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement of Form 8-K regarding amendments to or waivers from a provision of our Code of Conduct by posting such information on our website at
www.arraybiopharma.com and, to the extent required by the NASDAQ Stock Market, by filing a current report on Form 8-K with the SEC, disclosing such information. 
 
 
  ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the information under the captions "Executive Compensation," "Compensation
Committee Report," "Compensation of Directors" and "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" contained in the 2012 Proxy Statement. 
 
 
  ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS     
The information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management required by this item is incorporated by reference from
the information under the caption "Principal Stockholders" contained in the 2012 Proxy Statement and the information relating to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans
is incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Proposal 3 – Approval of Amendment to Employee Stock Purchase Plan" contained in the 2012 Proxy Statement. 
 
 
  ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE     
The information required by this item relating to related party transactions is incorporated by reference from the information under the caption
"Certain Relationships and Transactions" contained in the 2012 Proxy Statement and relating to director independence is incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Proposal
1 – Election of Directors – Meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board of Directors" contained in the 2012 Proxy Statement. 
77



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES     
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Fees Billed by the Principal Accountant"
contained in the 2012 Proxy Statement. 
78



 
Table of Contents
 
 
PART IV



 
    ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     
The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 


1.Financial Statements

Reference
is made to the Index to the financial statements as set forth on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  


2.Financial Statement Schedules



All
schedules have been omitted as the pertinent information is either not required, not applicable, or otherwise included in the financial statements and notes thereto.  


3.Exhibits

Reference
is made to the Exhibit Index that is set forth after the financial statements referenced above in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 


79








 











Table of Contents 
 
 
SIGNATURES



Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Boulder, State of Colorado, on August 16, 2012. 













 
 
 ARRAY BIOPHARMA INC.



 
 
  By: /s/ RON SQUARER





 
 
 
 
Ron Squarer
Chief Executive Officer




KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Ron Squarer, R. Michael Carruthers and John
R. Moore, and each or any one of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments (including post-effective amendments) to this report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them,
full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in
person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his substitutes or substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof. 
Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. 













 
 
 


SIGNATURE
 
TITLE
 
 


 
 

 
 

 


/s/ RON SQUARER

  Ron Squarer
 
Chief Executive Officer and Director
(Principal Executive Officer)
 
August 16, 2012


/s/ KYLE A. LEFKOFF

  Kyle A. Lefkoff
 
Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
August 16, 2012


/s/ R. MICHAEL CARRUTHERS

  R. Michael Carruthers
 
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial And Accounting Officer)
 
August 16, 2012


/s/ FRANCIS J. BULLOCK

  Francis J. Bullock, Ph.D.
 
Director
 
August 16, 2012


/s/ GWEN A. FYFE

  Gwen A. Fyfe, M.D.
 
Director
 
August 16, 2012


/s/ KEVIN KOCH

  Kevin Koch, Ph.D.
 
Director
 
August 16, 2012


/s/ LIAM RATCLIFFE

  Liam Ratcliffe. M.D., Ph.D.
 
Director
 
August 16, 2012




80



 
Table of Contents













 
 
 


SIGNATURE
 
TITLE
 
 


 
 

 
 

 


/s/ DAVID L. SNITMAN

  David L. Snitman, Ph.D.
 
Director
 
August 16, 2012


/s/ GIL J. VAN LUNSEN

  Gil J. Van Lunsen
 
Director
 
August 16, 2012


/s/ JOHN L. ZABRISKIE

  John L. Zabriskie, Ph.D.
 
Director
 
August 16, 2012




81




 











Table of Contents 
 
INDEX TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




 














Description 
 
Page No. 
 


 
 
 

 
 


 Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
 
F-2
 


 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 

F-3
 


 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 

F-4
 


 Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2012 and 2011
 
 

F-5
 


 Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010
 
 

F-6
 


 Statements of Stockholders' Deficit for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010
 
 

F-7
 


 Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010
 
 

F-8
 


 Notes to the Financial Statements
 
 

F-9
 





F-1




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  ARRAY BIOPHARMA INC.  MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING     
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to
financial statement preparation and presentation. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2012 based on the framework set forth in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that, as of June 30, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. 
KPMG LLP,
our independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2012,
as stated in their report, which is included elsewhere herein. 











 
 
  
  
  
/s/ RON SQUAREER

  Ron Squarer
Chief Executive Officer
 
August 16, 2012


 
 
 /s/ R. MICHAEL CARRUTHERS

  R. Michael Carruthers
Chief Financial Officer
  
August 16, 2012




F-2




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
The
Board of Directors and Stockholders
Array BioPharma Inc.: 
We
have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Array BioPharma Inc. (the Company) as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, and the related statements of operations and comprehensive loss,
stockholders' deficit, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2012. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Array BioPharma Inc. as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Array BioPharma Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of
June 30, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated August 16, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting. 











 
 
 /s/    KPMG LLP




Boulder,
Colorado
August 16, 2012 
F-3




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
The
Board of Directors and Stockholders
Array BioPharma Inc.: 
We
have audited Array BioPharma Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Array BioPharma Inc.'s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit. 
We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit
also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In
our opinion, Array BioPharma Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2012, based on criteria established in  Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
 
We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the balance sheets of Array BioPharma Inc. as of June 30, 2012
and 2011, and the related statements of operations and comprehensive loss, stockholders' deficit, and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2012, and our report dated August 16, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements. 











 
 
 /s/    KPMG LLP




Boulder,
Colorado
August 16, 2012 
F-4




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 
  ARRAY BIOPHARMA INC.  Balance Sheets (Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Amounts)     
















 
 
June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 


 ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
55,799
 
$
48,099
 


 Marketable securities
 
 
33,378
 
 
15,986
 


 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
 
3,930
 
 
6,477
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current assets
 
 
93,107
 
 
70,562
 


 Long-term assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Marketable securities
 
 
473
 
 
623
 


 Property and equipment, net
 
 
12,059
 
 
15,698
 


 Other long-term assets
 
 
2,434
 
 
2,491
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total long-term assets
 
 
14,966
 
 
18,812
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
108,073
 
$
89,374
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts payable
 
$
6,466
 
$
4,460
 


 Accrued outsourcing costs
 
 
5,394
 
 
5,248
 


 Accrued compensation and benefits
 
 
7,530
 
 
6,431
 


 Other accrued expenses
 
 
1,390
 
 
2,312
 


 Co-development liability
 
 
9,178
 
 
-    
 


 Deferred rent
 
 
3,489
 
 
3,333
 


 Deferred revenue
 
 
42,339
 
 
47,874
 


 Current portion of long-term debt
 
 
150
 
 
150
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current liabilities
 
 
75,936
 
 
69,808
 


 Long-term liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred rent
 
 
11,480
 
 
14,968
 


 Deferred revenue
 
 
13,228
 
 
39,306
 


 Long-term debt, net
 
 
92,106
 
 
91,390
 


 Derivative liabilities
 
 
656
 
 
540
 


 Other long-term liabilities
 
 
473
 
 
4,220
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total long-term liabilities
 
 
117,943
 
 
150,424
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
193,879
 
 
220,232
 


 Commitments and contingencies
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stockholders' deficit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred stock, $0.001 par value; 10,000,000 shares authorized, 10,135 shares designated as Series B convertible preferred stock; 2,721 and 10,135
shares issued and outstanding as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively
 
 
8,054
 
 
30,000
 


 Common stock, $0.001 par value; 120,000,000 shares authorized; 92,063,645 and 57,020,003 shares issued and outstanding, as of June 30, 2012 and 2011,
respectively
 
 
92
 
 
57
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
437,401
 
 
346,853
 


 Warrants
 
 
39,385
 
 
39,385
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
(1
)
 
3
 


 Accumulated deficit
 
 
(570,737
)
 
(547,156
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' deficit
 
 
(85,806
)
 
(130,858
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' deficit
 
$
108,073
 
$
89,374
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes to the financial statements  
F-5




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
    ARRAY BIOPHARMA INC.  Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss (Amounts in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)     



















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 License and milestone revenue
 
$
71,249
 
$
53,426
 
$
32,485
 


 Collaboration revenue
 
 
13,886
 
 
18,475
 
 
21,395
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenue
 
 
85,135
 
 
71,901
 
 
53,880
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cost of revenue
 
 
24,261
 
 
28,916
 
 
28,322
 


 Research and development for proprietary drug discovery
 
 
56,719
 
 
63,498
 
 
72,488
 


 General and administrative
 
 
15,202
 
 
16,261
 
 
17,121
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating expenses
 
 
96,182
 
 
108,675
 
 
117,931
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from operations
 
 

(11,047
)
 

(36,774
)
 

(64,051
)


 Other income (expense)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Realized gains on auction rate securities, net
 
 
-    
 
 
1,891
 
 
1,305
 


 Loss on early repayment of long-term debt, net
 
 
(942
)
 
(6,340
)
 
-    
 


 Interest income
 
 
32
 
 
406
 
 
864
 


 Interest expense
 
 
(11,624
)
 
(15,507
)
 
(15,749
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other income (expense), net
 
 
(12,534
)
 
(19,550
)
 
(13,580
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss before income taxes
 
 

(23,581
)
 

(56,324
)
 

(77,631
)


 Income tax benefit
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$

(23,581
)
$

(56,324
)
$

(77,631
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Change in unrealized gains (losses) on marketable securities
 
 

(4
)
 

(5,525
)
 

2,294
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive loss
 
$

(23,585
)
$

(61,849
)
$

(75,337
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average shares outstanding - basic and diluted
 
 

70,619
 
 

55,447
 
 

50,216
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss per share attributable to Array Biopharma common stockholders - basic and diluted
 
$

(0.33
)
$

(1.02
)
$

(1.55
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes to the financial statements  
F-6




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
    ARRAY BIOPHARMA INC.  Statements of Stockholders' Deficit (All Numbers in Thousands)     





































 
 
Preferred Stock 
 
Common Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss) 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Additional
Paid-in
Capital 
 
 
 
Accumulated
Deficit 
 
 
 


 
 
Shares 
 
Amounts 
 
Shares 
 
Amounts 
 
Warrants 
 
Total 
 


 Balance as of July 1, 2009
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
48,125
 
 
48
 
 
312,349
 
 
23,869
 
 
3,234
 
 
(413,201
)
 
(73,701
)


 Issuance of common stock under stock option and employee stock purchase plans
 
 

-    
 
 

-    
 
 

797
 
 

1
 
 

1,175
 
 

-    
 
 

-    
 
 

-    
 
 

1,176
 


 Share-based compensation expense
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
5,372
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
5,372
 


 Issuance of common stock for cash, net of offering costs
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
3,302
 
 
3
 
 
10,970
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
10,973
 


 Issuance of common stock warrants
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
12,427
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
12,427
 


 Payment of employee bonus with stock
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
1,000
 
 
1
 
 
2,411
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
2,412
 


 Recognition of unrealized gain out of accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
(915
)
 
-    
 
 
(915
)


 Change in unrealized gain on marketable securities
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
3,209
 
 
-    
 
 
3,209
 


 Net loss
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
(77,631
)
 
(77,631
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance as of June 30, 2010
 
 

-    
 
 

-    
 
 

53,224
 
 

53
 
 

332,277
 
 

36,296
 
 

5,528
 
 

(490,832
)
 

(116,678
)


 Issuance of common stock under stock option and employee stock purchase plans
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
606
 
 
1
 
 
1,490
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
1,491
 


 Share-based compensation expense
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
3,328
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
3,328
 


 Issuance of common stock for cash, net of offering costs
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
1,910
 
 
2
 
 
5,777
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
5,779
 


 Repricing of warrants for common stock
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
3,089
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
3,089
 


 Payment of employee bonus with stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,280
 
 
1
 
 
3,981
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-    
 
 
3,982
 


 Issuance of Series B preferred stock from debt repayment
 
 
10
 
 
30,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30,000
 


 Reclassification of unrealized gain out of accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
(2,706
)
 
-    
 
 
(2,706
)


 Change in unrealized gain on marketable securities
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
(2,819
)
 
-    
 
 
(2,819
)


 Net loss
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
(56,324
)
 
(56,324
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance as of June 30, 2011
 
 

10
 
 

30,000
 
 

57,020
 
 

57
 
 

346,853
 
 

39,385
 
 

3
 
 

(547,156
)
 

(130,858
)


 Issuance of common stock under stock option and employee stock purchase plans
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
581
 
 
1
 
 
1,168
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
1,169
 


 Share-based compensation expense
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
2,351
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
2,351
 


 Issuance of common stock for cash, net of offering costs
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
25,936
 
 
26
 
 
63,122
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
63,148
 


 Conversion of preferred stock to common
 
 
(7
)
 
(21,946
)
 
7,414
 
 
7
 
 
21,939
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 


 Payment of employee bonus with stock
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
1,113
 
 
1
 
 
1,968
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
1,969
 


 Change in unrealized gain on marketable securities
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
(4
)
 
-    
 
 
(4
)


 Net loss
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
(23,581
)
 
(23,581
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance as of June 30, 2012
 
 

3
 
 

8,054
 
 

92,064
 
 

92
 
 

437,401
 
 

39,385
 
 

(1
)
 

(570,737
)
 

(85,806
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes to the financial statements
F-7




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
    ARRAY BIOPHARMA INC.  Statements of Cash Flows (Amounts in Thousands)     



















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Cash flows from operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(23,581
)
$
(56,324
)
$
(77,631
)


 Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation and amortization expense
 
 
5,076
 
 
7,616
 
 
6,338
 


 Share-based compensation expense
 
 
2,351
 
 
3,328
 
 
5,372
 


 Payment of employee bonus with stock
 
 
1,969
 
 
3,982
 
 
2,412
 


 Realized (gains) losses on auction rate securities, net
 
 
-    
 
 
(1,891
)
 
(1,444
)


 Impairment of marketable securities
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
217
 


 Loss on early repayment of long-term debt, net
 
 
942
 
 
6,340
 
 
-    
 


 Non-cash interest expense
 
 
4,643
 
 
6,377
 
 
6,737
 


 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
 
2,201
 
 
(1,119
)
 
(658
)


 Accounts payable
 
 
2,006
 
 
(1,173
)
 
(1,064
)


 Accrued outsourcing costs
 
 
146
 
 
341
 
 
148
 


 Accrued compensation and benefits
 
 
1,099
 
 
(3,582
)
 
2,165
 


 Deferred rent
 
 
(3,332
)
 
(3,180
)
 
(3,034
)


 Deferred revenue
 
 
(31,613
)
 
(30,471
)
 
78,078
 


 Accrued and other liabilities
 
 
4,547
 
 
3,794
 
 
250
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities
 
 
(33,546
)
 
(65,962
)
 
17,886
 


 Cash flows from investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases of property and equiment
 
 
(1,437
)
 
(1,901
)
 
(1,253
)


 Purchases of marketable securities
 
 
(51,339
)
 
(53,427
)
 
(79,375
)


 Proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities
 
 
34,055
 
 
129,423
 
 
11,237
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
(18,721
)
 
74,095
 
 
(69,391
)


 Cash flows from financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Proceeds from exercise of stock options and shares issued under the employee stock purchase plan
 
 
1,169
 
 
1,491
 
 
1,176
 


 Proceeds from the issuance of common stock for cash
 
 
67,145
 
 
6,060
 
 
11,596
 


 Payment of offering costs
 
 
(3,997
)
 
(281
)
 
(623
)


 Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
40,000
 


 Payment of long-term debt principal
 
 
(4,350
)
 
(150
)
 
-    
 


 Payment of transaction fees
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
(1,000
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by financing activities
 
 
59,967
 
 
7,120
 
 
51,149
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 

7,700
 
 

15,253
 
 

(356
)


 Cash and cash equivalents as of beginning of year
 
 
48,099
 
 
32,846
 
 
33,202
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents as of end of year
 
$
55,799
 
$
48,099
 
$
32,846
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash paid for interest
 
$
7,008
 
$
9,105
 
$
8,540
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes to the financial statements
F-8




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
    ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.  Notes to the Financial Statements  For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010     
 NOTE 1 – OVERVIEW AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION  
 Organization  
Array BioPharma Inc. (the "Company") is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of targeted
small molecule drugs to treat patients afflicted with cancer and inflammatory diseases. The Company's proprietary drug development pipeline includes clinical candidates that are designed to regulate
therapeutically important target pathways. In addition, leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies partner with the Company to discover and develop drug candidates across a broad range of
therapeutic areas. 
 Basis of Presentation  
The Company follows the accounting guidance outlined in the Financial Accounting Standards Board Codification and these audited financial statements
have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S."). 
Certain
fiscal 2012 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Specifically, certain amounts related to our marketable securities and payment of our bonus in stock
have been reclassified in the statement of cash flows for fiscal years 2011 and 2010. 
 Use of Estimates  
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue
and expenses during the reporting period. Although management bases these estimates on historical data and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, actual results could
differ significantly from these estimates. 
The
Company believes the accounting estimates having the most significant impact on its financial statements relate to (i) estimating the periods over which up-front and milestone
payments from collaboration agreements are recognized; (ii) estimating accrued outsourcing costs for clinical trials and preclinical testing; and (iii) estimating the fair value of the
Company's long-term debt that has associated warrants and embedded derivatives, and the separate estimated fair value of those warrants and embedded derivatives. 
 Liquidity  
The Company has incurred operating losses and has an accumulated deficit as a result of ongoing research and development spending. As of
June 30, 2012, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $570.7 million. The Company had net losses of $23.6 million, $56.3 million and $77.6 million for the fiscal
years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The
Company has historically funded its operations from up-front fees and license and milestone revenue received under its collaborations and out-licensing transactions, from
the issuance and sale of its equity securities and through debt provided by its credit facilities. For example, in February 2012 the Company 
F-9



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
received
net proceeds of approximately $56.1 million from the sale of shares of its common stock in an underwritten public offering and the Company has received $174 million in the last
32 months thru
the date of filing this Annual Report, including the following payments under its collaborations:


•In December 2009, the Company received a $60 million up-front payment from Amgen Inc. under a
Collaboration and License Agreement. •In April 2010, the Company received $45 million in up-front and milestone payments under a License
Agreement with Novartis Pharmaceutical International Ltd. •In December 2010, the Company received a $10 million milestone payment under a License Agreement with Celgene
Corporation. •In May 2011, the Company received a $10 million milestone payment under a License Agreement with Novartis. •In September 2011, the Company received a $28 million milestone payment under a License Agreement with
Genentech, Inc. •In June 2012, the Company received an $8.5 million milestone payment from Amgen following achievement of a
pre-defined patient enrollment milestone in a Phase 2 trial. 

The
recognition of revenue under these agreements is discussed further in Note 6 – Deferred Revenue. Until the Company can
generate sufficient levels of cash from operations, which it does not expect to achieve in the foreseeable future, the Company will continue to utilize existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities, and will continue to depend on funds provided from the sources mentioned above, which may not be available or forthcoming. 
Management
believes that the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of June 30, 2012 will enable it to continue to fund operations in the normal course of business for at least the
next 12 months. 
The
Company's ability to successfully raise sufficient funds through the sale of debt or equity securities when needed is subject to many risks and uncertainties and, even if it is successful, future
equity issuances would result in dilution to the Company's existing stockholders. The Company also may not successfully consummate new collaborations that provide for additional up-front
fees or milestone payments or may not earn milestone payments under new or existing collaborations when anticipated or at all. 
If
the Company is unable to obtain additional funding from these or other sources when needed, or to the extent needed, it may be necessary to significantly reduce the current rate of spending through
further reductions in staff and delaying, scaling back, or stopping certain research and development programs, including more costly Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials on the Company's
wholly-owned programs as these programs progress into later stage development. Insufficient liquidity may also require the Company to relinquish greater rights to product candidates at an earlier
stage of development or on less favorable terms to the Company and its stockholders than the Company would otherwise choose in order to obtain up-front license fees needed to fund
operations. These events could prevent the Company from successfully executing its operating plan and in the future could raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going
concern. Further, as discussed in Note 8 – Long-term Debt, the entire debt balance of $92.6 million
outstanding with Deerfield becomes due and payable if the Company's total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities falls below $20 million at the end of a fiscal quarter. 
F-10



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 Fair Value Measurements  
The Company's financial instruments are recognized and measured at fair value in the Company's financial statements and primarily consist of cash and
cash equivalents, marketable securities, long-term investments, trade receivables and payables, long-term debt, embedded derivatives associated with the long-term
debt and warrants. The Company uses different valuation techniques to measure the fair value of assets and liabilities, as discussed in more detail below. Fair value is defined as the price that would
be received or paid to sell the financial instruments in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Company uses a framework for measuring fair value based on a
hierarchy that distinguishes sources of available market information used in fair value measurements and categorizes them into three levels: 














 
  •    
 
Level I:
 
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.


 
  •    
 
Level II:
 
Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.


 
  •    
 
Level III:
 
Unobservable inputs.




The
Company discloses assets and liabilities measured at fair value based on their level in the hierarchy. Considerable judgment is required in interpreting market and other data to develop estimates
of fair value for assets or liabilities for which there are no quoted prices in active markets, which include the Company's auction rate securities, or ARS, warrants issued by the Company in
connection with its long-term debt and the embedded derivatives associated with the long-term debt. The use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a
material effect on their estimated fair value. Accordingly, the fair value estimates disclosed by the Company may not be indicative of the amount that the Company or holders of the instruments could
realize in a current market exchange. 
The
Company periodically reviews the realizability of each investment in marketable securities when impairment indicators exist with respect to the investment. If an
other-than-temporary impairment of the value of an investment is deemed to exist, the cost basis of the investment is written down to its then estimated fair value. 
 Cash and Cash Equivalents  
Cash equivalents consist of short-term, highly liquid financial instruments that are readily convertible to cash and have maturities of
90 days or less from the date of purchase and may consist of money market funds, taxable commercial paper, U.S. government agency obligations and corporate notes and bonds with high credit
quality. 
 Marketable Securities  
The Company has designated its marketable securities as of each balance sheet date as available-for-sale securities and
accounts for them at their respective fair values. Marketable securities are classified as short-term or long-term based on the nature of these securities and the availability
of these securities to meet current operating requirements. Marketable securities that are readily available for use in current operations are classified as short-term
available-for-sale securities and are reported as a component of current assets in the accompanying Balance Sheets. Marketable securities that are not considered available for
use in current operations (including when active markets for such securities do 
F-11



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
not
exist) are classified as long-term available-for-sale securities and are reported as a component of long-term assets in the accompanying Balance
Sheets. 
Securities
that are classified as available-for-sale are carried at fair value, including accrued interest, with temporary unrealized gains and losses reported as a component
of Stockholders' Deficit until their disposition. The Company reviews all available-for-sale securities at each period end to determine if they remain
available-for-sale based on the Company's then current intent and ability to sell the security if it is required to do so. The amortized cost of debt securities in this
category is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization is included in Interest Income in the accompanying Statements of Operations and
Comprehensive Loss. Realized gains and losses on ARS the Company held along with declines in value judged to be other-than-temporary are reported in Realized Gains on Auction
Rate Securities, Net in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss when recognized. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. 
The
Company sold its remaining ARS during the quarter ended March 31, 2011. Prior to their disposition, the Company determined the carrying value of the ARS under the fair value hierarchy using
Level III, or unobservable inputs, as there was no active market for the securities. The most significant unobservable inputs used in this method were estimates of the amount of time until an
event resulting in liquidity of the ARS would occur and the discount rate, which incorporates estimates of credit risk and a liquidity premium (discount). Due to the inherent complexity in valuing
these securities, the Company engaged a third-party valuation firm to perform an independent valuation of the ARS as part of the Company's overall fair value analysis beginning with the first quarter
of fiscal 2009 and continuing through the quarter ended December 31, 2010. 
See
Note 3 – Marketable Securities for additional information about the Company's investments in ARS. 
 Property and Equipment  
Property and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Additions and improvements are capitalized.
Certain costs to internally develop software are also capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. 
Depreciation
and amortization are computed on the straight-line method based on the following estimated useful lives: 











 Furniture and fixtures
 
7 years


 Equipment
 
5 years


 Computer hardware and software
 
3 years




The
Company depreciates leasehold improvements associated with operating leases on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the expected useful life of the improvements or the remaining
lease term. 
The
carrying value for property and equipment is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. An impairment
loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than its carrying amount. 
F-12



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 Equity Investment  
The Company has entered into one collaboration and license agreement and may, in the future, enter into additional agreements, in which it received
an equity interest as consideration for all or a portion of up-front, license or other fees under the terms of the agreement. The Company reports the value of equity securities received
from non-publicly traded companies in which it does not exercise a significant or controlling interest at cost as Other Long-term Assets in the accompanying Balance Sheets. The
Company monitors its investment for impairment at least annually and makes appropriate reductions in the carrying value if it is determined that an impairment has occurred, based primarily on the
financial condition and near and long-term prospects of the issuer. 
 Accrued Outsourcing Costs  
Substantial portions of the Company's preclinical studies and clinical trials are performed by third-party laboratories, medical centers, contract
research organizations and other vendors (collectively "CROs"). These CROs generally bill monthly or quarterly for services performed or bill based upon milestone achievement. For preclinical studies,
the Company accrues expenses based upon estimated percentage of work completed and the contract milestones remaining. For clinical studies, expenses are accrued based upon the number of patients
enrolled and the duration of the study. The Company monitors patient enrollment, the progress of clinical studies and related activities to the extent possible through internal reviews of data
reported to it by the CROs, correspondence with the CROs and clinical site visits. The Company's estimates depend on the timeliness and accuracy of the data provided by its CROs regarding the status
of each program and total program spending. The Company periodically evaluates the estimates to determine if adjustments are necessary or appropriate based on information it receives. 
 Deferred Revenue  
The Company records amounts received but not earned under its collaboration agreements as Deferred Revenue, which are then classified as either
current or long-term in the accompanying Balance Sheets based on the period during which they are expected to be recognized as revenue. 
 Long-term Debt and Embedded Derivatives  
The terms of the Company's long-term debt are discussed in detail in Note 8 –
Long-term Debt. The accounting for these arrangements is complex and is based upon significant estimates by management. The Company reviews all debt agreements to
determine the appropriate accounting treatment when the agreement is entered into and reviews all amendments to determine if the changes require accounting for the amendment as a modification of the
debt, or as an extinguishment and new debt. The Company also reviews each long-term debt arrangement to determine if any feature of the debt requires bifurcation and/or separate valuation.
These may include hybrid instruments, which are comprised of at least two components ((1) a debt host instrument and (2) one or more conversion features), warrants and other embedded
derivatives, such as puts and other rights of the debt holder. 
The
Company currently has two embedded derivatives related to its long-term debt with Deerfield. One of the embedded derivatives is a variable interest rate structure that constitutes a
liquidity-linked variable spread feature. The other relates to Deerfield's ability to accelerate the repayment of the debt in the event of certain changes in control of the Company that constitutes a
significant transaction contingent put 
F-13



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
option.
Such event would occur if the acquirer did not meet certain financial conditions, based on size and credit worthiness. Collectively, they are referred to as the "Embedded Derivatives." Under
the fair value hierarchy, the Company measures the fair value of the Embedded Derivatives using Level III, or unobservable inputs, as there is no active market for them, and calculates fair
value using a combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and the Black-Derman-Toy interest rate model. 
The
fair value of the variable interest rate structure is based on the Company's estimate of the probable effective interest rate over the term of the Deerfield credit facilities. Because the interest
rate may vary based on changes in the Company's cash position during the term of the loan, the Company estimates the effective interest rate over the term of the credit facilities based on its cash
flow forecasts, which include the Company's expectations of future cash inflows from up-front fees, milestone payments and issuances of equity. The fair value of the put option is based on
the Company's estimate of the probability that a change in control that triggers Deerfield's right to accelerate the debt will occur. With those inputs, the fair value of each Embedded Derivative is
calculated as the difference between the fair value of the Deerfield credit facilities if the Embedded Derivatives are included and the fair value of the Deerfield credit facilities if the Embedded
Derivatives are excluded. Due to the inherent complexity in valuing the Deerfield credit facilities and the Embedded Derivatives, the Company has engaged a third-party valuation firm to perform the
valuation as part of its overall fair value analysis. 
The
estimated fair value of the Embedded Derivatives was determined based on management's judgment and assumptions and the use of different assumptions could result in significantly different
estimated fair values. See Note 8 – Long-Term Debt – Deerfield Credit Facilities – Embedded
Derivatives for information on the impact changes in these assumptions can have on the value of the Embedded Derivatives in the accompanying Balance Sheet and Interest Expense
in the Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 
The
fair value of the Embedded Derivatives is recorded as Derivative Liabilities in the accompanying Balance Sheets. Changes in the value of the Embedded Derivatives is adjusted quarterly and recorded
to Derivative Liabilities in the Balance Sheets and Interest Expense in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 
Warrants
that the Company has issued in connection with its long-term debt arrangements have been classified as equity. The Company valued the warrants at issuance based on a Black-Scholes
option pricing model and then allocated a portion of the proceeds under the debt to the warrants based upon their relative fair values. The warrants were recorded in Stockholders' Deficit with the
offset to debt discount. The debt discount is being amortized from the respective draw dates to the end of the term of the Deerfield credit facilities using the effective interest method and recorded
as Interest Expense in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 
Transaction
fees paid in connection with the Company's long-term debt arrangements that qualify for capitalization are recorded as Other Long-Term Assets in the Balance Sheets
and amortized to Interest Expense in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss using the effective interest method over the term of the underlying debt agreement. 
F-14



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 Income Taxes  
The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. The Company recognizes the amount of income taxes payable or refundable
for the year as current income tax provision (benefit) and records a deferred income tax provision (benefit) based on changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying value and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and, using enacted tax rates in effect, reflect the
expected effect these differences would have on future taxable income, if any. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce the amount of deferred tax assets when management cannot conclude it is more
likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. Such allowances are based upon available objective evidence, the expected reversal of temporary differences and
projections of future taxable income. 
 Operating Leases  
The Company has negotiated certain landlord/tenant incentives and rent holidays and escalations in the base price of rent payments under its
operating leases. For purposes of determining the period over which these amounts are recognized or amortized, the initial term of an operating lease includes the "build-out" period of
leases, where no rent payments are typically due under the terms of the lease and includes additional terms pursuant to any options to extend the initial term if it is more likely than not that the
Company will exercise such options. The Company recognizes rent holidays and rent escalations on a straight-line basis over the initial lease term. The landlord/tenant incentives are
recorded as an increase to Deferred Rent in the accompanying Balance Sheets and amortized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease term. The Company has also entered into two
sale-lease back transactions for its facilities in Boulder and Longmont, Colorado, where the consideration received from the landlord is recorded as an increase to Deferred Rent in the
accompanying Balance Sheets and amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Deferred Rent balances are classified as short-term or long-term in the
accompanying Balance Sheets based upon the period when reversal of the liability is expected to occur. 
 Share-Based Compensation  
The Company uses the fair value method of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, which requires that compensation expense be
recognized based on the grant date fair value of the arrangement. Share-based compensation arrangements include stock options granted under the Company's Amended and Restated Stock Option and
Incentive Plan and purchases of common stock by its employees at a discount to the market price under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"). 
The
estimated grant date fair value of stock options is based on a Black- Scholes option pricing model and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting term. Compensation expense
for stock options is reduced for forfeitures, which are estimated at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Compensation expense for
purchases under the ESPP is measured based on a Black-Scholes option pricing model and incorporates the estimated fair value of the common stock during each offering period as well as the purchase
discount. 
F-15




 











Table of Contents 
 
    ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.  Notes to the Financial Statements  For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010     
 Revenue Recognition  
Most of the Company's revenue is from the Company's collaborators for research funding, up-front or license fees and milestone payments
derived from discovering and developing drug candidates. The Company's agreements with collaboration partners include fees based on annual rates for full-time-equivalent
employees ("FTEs") working on a program and may also include non-refundable license and up-front fees, non-refundable milestone payments that are triggered upon
achievement of specific research or development goals and future royalties on sales of products that result from the collaboration. A small portion of the Company's revenue comes from the sale of
compounds on a per-compound basis. The Company reports FTE fees for discovery and the development of proprietary drug candidates that the Company out-licenses as Collaboration
Revenue. License and Milestone Revenue is combined and consists of up-front fees and ongoing milestone payments from collaborators that are recognized during the applicable period. 
The
Company recognizes revenue based on four criteria, each of which must be met, in order to recognize revenue for the performance of services or the shipment of products. Revenue is recognized when
(a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (b) products are delivered or as services are rendered, (c) the sales price is fixed or determinable and
(d) collectability is reasonably assured. 
Many
of the Company's collaboration agreements include a combination of discovery research funding, up-front or license fees, milestone payments and/or royalties. The Company follows ASC
605-25 "Revenue Recognition – Multiple-Element Arrangements" to determine the recognition of revenue under arrangements involving the delivery of multiple revenue
elements when delivery of separate units of accounting occurs in different reporting periods. This standard addresses the determination of the units of accounting for multiple-element arrangements and
how the arrangement's consideration should be allocated to each unit of accounting. The Company adopted this accounting standard on a prospective basis for all multiple-element arrangements entered
into on or after July 1, 2010 and for any multiple-element arrangements that were entered into prior to July 1, 2010 but materially modified on or after July 1, 2010. Since the
adoption of this standard, the Company has entered into one agreement with multiple elements. The Company has had no material modifications to arrangements that were entered into prior to
July 1, 2010. The adoption of this standard may result in revenue recognition patterns for future agreements that are materially different from those recognized for the Company's past
collaboration arrangements. 
For
the Company's multiple element transactions entered into on or after July 1, 2010, the Company evaluates the deliverables to determine if they meet the separation criteria under ASC
605-25 and have stand-alone value. The Company allocates revenue to elements that meet the separation criteria based on their relative selling prices. The Company treats deliverables in an
arrangement that do not meet the separation criteria as a single unit of accounting, generally applying applicable revenue recognition guidance for the final deliverable to the combined unit of
accounting. 
The
Company recognizes revenue from non-refundable up-front payments and license fees on a straight-line basis over the term of performance under the agreement,
which is generally the estimated research or development term. These advance payments are deferred and recorded as Deferred Revenue upon receipt, pending recognition, and are classified as a
short-term or long-term liability in the accompanying Balance Sheets. 
F-16



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
When
the performance period is not specifically identifiable from the agreement, the Company estimates the performance period based upon provisions contained within the agreement, such as the duration
of the research or development term, the existence, or likelihood of achievement of development commitments and any other significant commitments of the Company. 
Most
of the Company's agreements provide for milestone payments. In certain cases, all or a portion of each milestone payment is recognized as revenue when the specific milestone is achieved based on
the applicable percentage of the estimated research or development term that has elapsed to the total estimated research and/or development term. In other cases, when the milestone payment is
attributed to future development obligations of the Company, the revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated remaining development period. Certain milestone payments
are for activities for which there are no future obligations and as a result, are recognized when earned in their entirety. 
The
Company periodically reviews the expected performance periods under each of its agreements that provide for non-refundable up-front payments and license fees and milestone
payments and adjusts the amortization periods when appropriate to reflect changes in assumptions relating to the duration of expected performance periods. Revenue recognition for
non-refundable license fees and up-front payments and milestone payments could be accelerated in the event of early termination of programs or alternatively, decelerated, if
programs are extended. As such, while changes to such estimates have no impact on its reported cash flows, the Company's reported revenue is significantly influenced by its estimates of the period
over which its obligations are expected to be performed. 
 Cost of Revenue and Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Programs  
The Company incurs costs in connection with performing research and development activities which consist mainly of compensation, associated fringe
benefits, share-based compensation, preclinical and clinical outsourcing costs and other collaboration-related costs, including supplies, small tools, facilities, depreciation, recruiting and
relocation costs and other direct and indirect chemical handling and laboratory support costs. The Company allocates these costs between Cost of Revenue and Research and Development Expenses for
Proprietary Programs based upon the respective time spent by its scientists on development conducted for its collaborators and for its internal proprietary programs. Cost of Revenue represents the
costs associated with research and development, including preclinical and clinical trials, conducted by the Company for its collaborators. Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Programs
consists of direct and indirect costs for the Company's specific proprietary programs. The Company does not bear any risk of failure for performing these activities and the payments are not contingent
on the success or failure of the research program. Accordingly, the Company expenses these costs when incurred. 
Where
the Company's collaboration agreements provide for it to conduct research and development on a number of programs and for which the Company's partner has an option to obtain the right to conduct
further development and to commercialize a portion of the programs subject to the agreement, the Company attributes a portion of its research and development costs to Cost of Revenue based on the
percentage of total programs under the agreement that the Company concludes is likely to continue to be funded by the partner. These costs may not be incurred equally across all programs. In addition,
the Company continually evaluates the progress of development activities under these agreements and if events or circumstances change in future periods that the Company reasonably believes would make
it unlikely that a collaborator would continue to fund the same percentage of programs, the Company will 
F-17



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
adjust
the allocation accordingly. See Note 6 – Deferred Revenue, for further information about the Company's collaborations. 
 Net Loss per Share  
Basic net loss per share is computed by dividing net loss for the period by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
period. Diluted net loss per share reflects the additional dilution from potential issuances of common stock, such as stock issuable pursuant to the exercise of stock options and warrants issued
related to the Company's long-term debt. The treasury stock method is used to calculate the potential dilutive effect of these common stock equivalents. Potentially dilutive shares are
excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share when their effect is anti-dilutive. As a result of the Company's net losses for all periods presented, all potentially dilutive
securities were anti-dilutive and therefore have been excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share. 
 Comprehensive Income (Loss)  
The Company's comprehensive income (loss) consists of the Company's net losses and adjustments to unrealized gains and losses on investments in
available-for-sale marketable securities. The Company had no other sources of comprehensive income (loss) for the periods presented. 
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value
Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. This ASU provides a consistent definition
of fair value between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Additionally, the ASU changes certain fair value measurement principles and expands the disclosures for fair
value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and is to be applied prospectively. The Company adopted this disclosure
standard in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and it did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. 
In
June 2011, the FASB issued FASB ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income in U.S. GAAP and
IFRS. This ASU provides companies the option to present the components of net income and other comprehensive income either as one continuous statement of comprehensive income
or as two separate but consecutive
statements. It eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' deficit. The provisions of this new guidance are effective
for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. 
Other
recent accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB (including its Emerging Issues Task Force) and the SEC did not or are not believed by management to have a material impact on the Company's
present or future financial statements. 
F-18



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 
 
  NOTE 2 – SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION AND SIGNIFICANT COLLABORATORS     
 Segments  
All operations of the Company are considered to be in one operating segment and, accordingly, no segment disclosures have been presented. The
physical location of all of the Company's equipment, leasehold improvements and other fixed assets is within the U.S. 
 Significant Collaborators  
The following collaborators contributed greater than 10.0% of the Company's total revenue during fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010. The revenue from these collaborators as a percentage of total revenue was: 



















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Genentech
 
 
41%
 
 
22%
 
 
39%
 


 Amgen
 
 
34%
 
 
36%
 
 
28%
 


 Novartis
 
 
16%
 
 
21%
 
 
0%
 


 Celgene
 
 
7%
 
 
21%
 
 
26%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
98%
 
 
100%
 
 
93%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




The
loss of one or more of its significant collaborators could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results or financial condition. The Company does not require
collateral from its collaborators, though most pay in advance. Although the Company is impacted by economic conditions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors, management does not believe
significant credit risk exists as of June 30, 2012. 
 Geographic Information  
The following table details revenue from collaborators by geographic area based on the country in which collaborators are located or the
ship-to destination for compounds (dollars in thousands): 



















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 North America
 
$
70,905
 
$
56,801
 
$
53,641
 


 Europe
 
 
13,987
 
$
15,081
 
$
187
 


 Asia Pacific
 
 
243
 
$
19
 
$
52
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
85,135
 
$
71,901
 
$
53,880
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




F-19



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 
 
  NOTE 3 – MARKETABLE SECURITIES     
Marketable securities consisted of the following as of June 30, 2012 (dollars in thousands): 






















 
 
Amortized
Cost
 
Gross
Unrealized
Gains
 
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
 
Fair
Value
 


 
 
 
 


 Short-term available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. Government agency securities
 
$
33,129
 
$
-    
 
$
(1
)
$
33,128
 


 Mutual fund securities
 
 
250
 
 
-    
 
 
 
 
 
250
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Sub-total
 
 
33,379
 
 
-    
 
 
(1
)
 
33,378
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Long-term available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Mutual fund securities
 
 
473
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
473
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Sub-total
 
 
473
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
473
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$

33,852
 
$

-    
 
$

(1
)
$

33,851
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Marketable
securities consisted of the following as of June 30, 2011 (dollars in thousands): 






















 
 
Amortized
Cost
 
Gross
Unrealized
Gains
 
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
 
Fair
Value
 


 
 
 
 


 Short-term available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. Government agency securities
 
$
15,598
 
$
3
 
$
-    
 
$
15,601
 


 Mutual fund securities
 
 
385
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
385
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Sub-total
 
 
15,983
 
 
3
 
 
-    
 
 
15,986
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Long-term available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Mutual fund securities
 
 
623
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
623
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Sub-total
 
 
623
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
623
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$

16,606
 
$

3
 
$

-    
 
$

16,609
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




The
majority of the mutual fund securities relate to securities held under the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan. 
F-20



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
The
fair value measurement categories of these marketable securities were as follows (dollars in thousands): 
















 
 
June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 


 Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1)
 
$
33,851
 
$
16,609
 


 Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets (Level 2)
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 


 Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3)
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
33,851
 
$
16,609
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




The
amortized cost and estimated fair value of available-for-sale securities by contractual maturity as of June 30, 2012 is (dollars in thousands): 
















 
 
Amortized Cost 
 
Fair Value 
 


 Due in one year or less
 
$
33,379
 
$
33,378
 


 Due in one year to three years
 
 
473
 
 
473
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
33,852
 
$
33,851
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 Auction Rate Securities  
As of June 30, 2010, the Company held five ARS with a par value of $26.3 million, a cost basis of $11.0 million and an estimated
fair value of $16.6 million. All of these securities were sold as of March 31, 2011. 
Prior
to the disposition of the ARS, and beginning in fiscal 2008, the auctions for all of the Company's ARS were unsuccessful and the Company was unable to readily liquidate its ARS. The lack of
successful auctions resulted in the interest rate on these investments increasing to LIBOR plus additional basis points as stipulated in the auction rate agreements, ranging from 200 to 350 additional
basis points, which continued from the time the auctions failed through their disposition in the quarter ended March 31, 2011. 
The
Company's ARS were measured using Level III, or unobservable inputs, as there was no active market for the securities. The most significant unobservable inputs used in this method were the
estimates of the amount of time until a liquidity event would occur and the discount rate, which incorporates estimates of credit risk and a liquidity premium (discount). Due to the inherent
complexity in valuing these securities, the Company engaged a third-party valuation firm to perform an independent valuation of the ARS as part of its overall fair value analysis. 
F-21




 











Table of Contents 
 
    ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.  Notes to the Financial Statements  For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010     
 NOTE 4 – PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET  
Property and Equipment, Net in the accompanying Balance Sheets consists of the following (dollars in thousands): 
















 
 
June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 


 Furniture and fixtures
 
$
3,381
 
$
3,373
 


 Equipment
 
 
39,151
 
 
39,982
 


 Computer hardware and software
 
 
12,886
 
 
12,051
 


 Leasehold improvements
 
 
30,869
 
 
30,562
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property and equipment, gross
 
 
86,287
 
 
85,968
 


 Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization
 
 
(74,228
)
 
(70,270
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property and equipment, net
 
$
12,059
 
$
15,698
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




Depreciation
and amortization expense was $5.1 million, $7.6 million and $6.3 million for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
The
Company had $1.1 million of unamortized software development costs as of June 30, 2012 and 2011. Amortization expense for software development costs was $623 thousand,
$644 thousand, and $610 thousand for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, and is included in depreciation and amortization expense disclosed above. 
 Leasehold Improvements  
The Company leases its Boulder and Longmont facilities pursuant to lease agreements that each have a ten-year lease term. Beginning in
fiscal 2007, the Company began amortizing its leasehold improvements over these ten-year lease terms. See Note 11 – Commitments and
Contingencies for further details. 
 NOTE 5 – EQUITY INVESTMENT  
In February 2007, the Company entered into a collaboration and licensing agreement with VentiRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in which the Company
received a non-refundable cash technology access fee and shares of preferred stock valued at $1.5 million based on the price at which such preferred stock was sold to investors in a
private offering. The technology access fee was recorded as Deferred Revenue in the accompanying Balance Sheets and was recognized as License Revenue on a straight-line basis over the
contractual one-year research term. The preferred stock has been recorded as a long-term asset in Other Long-term Assets in the accompanying Balance Sheets. 
F-22



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 NOTE 6 – DEFERRED REVENUE  
Deferred revenue consisted of the following in fiscal 2012 and 2011 (dollars in thousands): 
















 
 
June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 


 Amgen, Inc.
 
$
11,129
 
$
30,674
 


 Celgene Corporation
 
 
11,340
 
 
15,741
 


 DNA BioPharma, Inc.
 
 
500
 
 
-    
 


 Genentech, Inc.
 
 
7,810
 
 
2,228
 


 Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd
 
 
24,788
 
 
38,537
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred revenue
 
 
55,567
 
 
87,180
 


 Less: Current portion
 
 
(42,339
)
 
(47,874
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred revenue, long term
 
$
13,228
 
$
39,306
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 Amgen Inc.  
In December 2009, the Company granted Amgen the exclusive worldwide right to develop and commercialize the Company's small molecule glucokinase
activator, AMG 151/ARRY-403. Under the Collaboration and License Agreement, the Company was responsible for completing Phase 1 clinical trials on AMG 151, which it completed during
fiscal 2011. The Company also conducted further research funded by Amgen to create second generation glucokinase activators. Amgen is responsible for further development and commercialization of AMG
151 and any resulting second generation compounds. The agreement also provides the Company with an option to co-promote any approved drugs with Amgen in the U.S. with certain limitations. 
In
partial consideration for the rights granted to Amgen under the agreement, Amgen paid an up-front fee of $60 million. In June 2012, the Company received an $8.5 million
milestone payment following achievement of a pre-defined patient enrollment milestone in a Phase 2a trial. The Company is entitled to receive up to approximately $658 million
in additional aggregate milestone payments if all clinical and commercialization milestones specified in the agreement for AMG 151 and at least one backup compound are achieved. The Company will also
receive royalties on sales of any approved drugs developed under the agreement. 
The
Company estimates that its obligations under the agreement will continue until December 31, 2012 and, therefore, is recognizing the up-front fee and subsequent milestone
payments on a straight-line basis from the date the agreement was signed on December 13, 2009 through that time in License and Milestone Revenue in the accompanying Statements of
Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The Company recognized $19.7 million, $19.7 million and $10.8 million in License and Milestone Revenue related to the up-front fee
for each of the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, the Company recognized $7.2 million in additional License and
Milestone Revenue for the Phase 2a milestone payment. 
The
Company records revenue for research performed by its scientists working on the discovery program in Collaboration Revenue in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The 
F-23



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
Company
recognized $2.2 million, $4.7 million, and $2.0 for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The
Company was reimbursed for certain development activities, which is recorded in Collaboration Revenue and Cost of Revenue in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The
Company recognized $1.4 million of Collaboration Revenue and Cost of Revenue for the year ended June 30, 2011. The Company did not perform any development activities in fiscal 2012 and
therefore did not record any such revenue during fiscal 2012. 
Either
party may terminate the agreement in the event of a material breach of a material obligation under the agreement by the other party upon 90 days prior notice and Amgen may terminate the
agreement at any time upon notice of 60 or 90 days depending on the development activities going on at the time of such notice. The parties have also agreed to indemnify each other for certain
liabilities arising under the agreement. 
 Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd.  
The Company and Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd. entered into a License Agreement in April 2010 granting Novartis the exclusive
worldwide right to co-develop and commercialize MEK162/ARRY-162, as well as other specified MEK inhibitors. Under the agreement, the Company is responsible for completing the
on-going Phase 1b expansion trial of MEK162 in patients with KRAS or BRAF mutant colorectal cancer and for the further development of MEK162 for up to two indications. Novartis is
responsible for all other development activities and for the commercialization of products under the agreement, subject to the Company's option to co-detail approved drugs in the U.S. 
In
consideration for the rights granted to Novartis under the agreement, the Company received $45 million, comprising an up-front and milestone payment, in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2010. The Company is entitled to receive up to approximately $422 million in aggregate milestone payments if all clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones specified in the agreement
are achieved. In March 2011, the Company earned a $10 million milestone payment, which it received in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Novartis will also pay the Company royalties on
worldwide sales of any approved drugs, so long as the Company continues to co-develop products under the program in the U.S., royalties on U.S. sales are at a significantly higher level
than sales outside the U.S., as described below. 
The
Company estimates that its obligations under the agreement will continue until April 2014 and, therefore, is recognizing the up-front fee and milestone payments on a
straight-line basis from the date the agreement was signed in April 2010 through that time. These amounts are recorded in License and Milestone Revenue in the accompanying Statements of
Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 
The
Company recognized $10.0 million in revenue related to the up-front payment during each of the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. The Company recognized
$3.8 million and approximately $4.2 million in revenue related to the milestone payments during the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
The
Novartis agreement also contains co-development rights whereby the Company can elect to pay a percentage share of the combined total development costs. During the first two years of
the co-development period, Novartis will reimburse the Company for 100% of the Company's development 
F-24



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
costs.
Beginning in year three, the Company will begin paying its percentage share of the combined development costs since inception of the program, up to a maximum amount with annual caps, unless it
opts out of paying its percentage share of these costs. If the Company opts out of paying its share of combined development costs with respect to one or more products, the U.S. royalty rate would then
be reduced for any such product based on a specified formula, subject to a minimum that equals the royalty rate on sales outside the U.S., and the Company would no longer have the right to develop or
detail such product. 
The
Company records a receivable in the accompanying Balance Sheets for the amounts due from Novartis for the reimbursement of the Company's development costs. The Company accrues its percentage share
of the combined development costs in the accompanying Balance Sheets as a current or long-term liability in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, on the basis of the Company's intention to
begin paying such amounts to Novartis beginning in year three of the co-development period. 
The
Company's share of the combined development costs was $5.6 million and $3.6 million during the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which was recorded in Cost of
Revenue in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The Company recorded corresponding payables of $9.2 million and $3.6 million in in the accompanying Balance
Sheets as Co-development Liability as of June 30, 2012 and Other Long-Term Liabilities as of June 30, 2011, respectively. In addition, the Company had related
receivables of $950 thousand and $1.0 million in Prepaid and Other Current Assets in the accompanying Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, for the
reimbursable development costs it incurred during the fourth quarter of each year. In total, the Company incurred reimbursable development costs of $2.9 million and $6.3 million during
the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
The
agreement will be in effect on a product-by-product and county-by-country basis until no further payments are due with respect to the applicable
product in the applicable country, unless terminated earlier. Either party may terminate the agreement in the event of an uncured material breach of a material obligation under the agreement by the
other party upon 90 days prior notice. Novartis may terminate portions of the agreement following a change in control of the Company and may terminate the agreement in its entirety or on a
product-by-product basis with 180 days prior notice. The Company and Novartis have each further agreed to indemnify the other party for manufacturing or
commercialization activities conducted by it under the agreement, negligence or willful misconduct or breach of covenants, warranties or representations made by it under the agreement. 
 Celgene Corporation  
In September 2007, the Company entered into a worldwide strategic collaboration with Celgene focused on the discovery, development and
commercialization of novel therapeutics in cancer and inflammation. Under the agreement, Celgene made an up-front payment of $40 million to the Company in part to provide research
funding for activities conducted by the Company. The Company is responsible for all discovery development through Phase 1 or Phase 2a. Celgene has an option to select a limited number of
drugs developed under the collaboration that are directed to up to two of four mutually selected discovery targets and will receive exclusive worldwide rights to these two drugs, except for limited
co-promotional rights in the U.S. The Company retains all rights to the programs for which Celgene does not exercise its option. 
F-25



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
The
Company is entitled to receive, for each drug for which Celgene exercises an option, potential milestone payments of $200 million if certain discovery, development and regulatory milestones
are achieved and an additional $300 million if certain commercial milestones are achieved. In November 2010, the Company earned and subsequently received a $10 million milestone payment
upon securing an Investigational New Drug (IND) application for one of the programs. The Company is also entitled to receive royalties on net sales of any drugs. 
In
June 2009, the agreement was amended to substitute a new discovery target in place of an existing target and Celgene paid the Company $4.5 million in consideration for the amendment. The
option term for this target will expire on or before June 2016, and the option term for the other targets will expire on the earlier of completion of Phase 1 or Phase 2a trials for the
applicable drug or September 2014. In September 2009, Celgene notified the Company that it was waiving its rights to
one of the discovery targets under the collaboration, leaving Celgene the option to select two of the remaining three targets. 
In
January 2012, the agreement was further amended to continue drug discovery activities the Company was conducting on one of the existing targets. Celgene paid the Company $1.5 million during
the second half of fiscal 2012 as compensation for the additional research and the Company recognized $1.3 million of this payment as Collaboration Revenue during the year ended June 30,
2012. 
The
Company regularly reviews and adjusts the estimated period of the discovery obligations to determine the period over which the up-front fee and milestone payments will be recognized
under the Celgene Agreement. Upon execution of the agreement, the Company estimated that the discovery obligations under the agreement would continue through September 2014 and accordingly began
recognizing as revenue the up-front fees received from the date of receipt through September 2014. During the quarter ended September 30, 2011, the Company estimated that the
remaining period for its discovery obligations under the agreement was likely to be through June 2013. Therefore, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 the Company began recognizing the
remaining unamortized balance of the up-front fee through this shorter period on a straight-line basis. 
Throughout
the majority of fiscal 2012, research activities associated with the up-front fee were suspended while the Company's drug discovery activities were directed toward the
additional funded research discussed above. Consequently, the Company also suspended recognition of the related deferred revenue balance for the up-front fee and recognized
$878 thousand in License and Milestone Revenue in fiscal 2012 relating to this fee. 
The
Company recognized $4.7 million, $14.8 million and $13.9 million in revenue related to the up-front fee and milestone payments during the years ended
June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The
Company also reviews and adjusts as appropriate the allocation of research and development expenses under our agreement with Celgene based on the likelihood that Celgene will continue funding
development of the programs for which Celgene has an option under the agreement. The Company initially concluded that we would successfully discover compounds that would be nominated and reach the
Phase 1 milestone in two of the four programs. Accordingly, upon execution of the agreement, the Company began reporting costs associated with the Celgene collaboration as 50% to Cost of
Revenue, with the remaining 50% to Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Programs. In the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company concluded that Celgene is likely to continue funding
two of the remaining three programs by paying the Phase 1 milestone. Accordingly, beginning October 1, 2010, the 
F-26



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
Company
began reporting costs associated with the Celgene collaboration as 66.7% to Cost of Revenue, with the remaining 33.3% to Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Programs. During the
third quarter of fiscal 2012, research was active on only one of the remaining programs and management concluded the program will reach the Phase 1 milestone. Consequently, the Company recorded
all costs for the Celgene programs as Cost of Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2012. 
Celgene
can terminate any drug development program for which it has not exercised an option at any time, provided that it gives the Company prior notice. In this event, all rights to the program
remain with Array and the Company would no longer be entitled to receive milestone payments for further development or regulatory milestones that it could have achieved had Celgene continued
development of the program. Celgene may terminate the agreement in whole, or in part with respect to individual drug development programs for which Celgene has exercised an option, upon six months'
written notice to Array. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement, following certain cure periods, in the event of a breach by the other party of its obligations under the agreement. 
 Genentech, Inc.  
In addition to its ongoing agreements with Genentech, the Company entered into an additional oncology partnership for the development of each
company's small-molecule Checkpoint kinase 1 (Chk-1) program in August 2011. The partnered drugs include Genentech's compound GDC-0425 and the Company's compound
ARRY-575. Under the terms of the agreement, Genentech acquired a license to the Company's compound ARRY-575 and is responsible for all research, clinical development and
commercialization activities of the partnered drugs. The Company received an up-front payment of $28.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and is eligible to receive
payments of up to $685.0 million based on the achievement of clinical and commercial milestones under the agreement. The Company will also receive up to a double-digit royalty on sales of any
drugs resulting from the partnership. 
Pursuant
to the accounting guidance for revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, the Company determined that it is obligated to deliver two non-contingent deliverables
related to the agreement that meet the separation criteria under the guidance and therefore these deliverables are treated as separate units of accounting. The two deliverables are (1) the
delivery of specified clinical materials for GDC-0575 (ARRY-575) for use in future clinical trials and (2) the transfer of the license and related technology with
ongoing regulatory services to assist in filing the IND application and providing supporting data. 
This
agreement also includes a contingent deliverable whereby Genentech could, at its sole option, require the Company to perform chemical and manufacturing control (CMC) activities for additional
drug product or improved processes. This CMC option is not considered a deliverable because the scope, likelihood and timing of the potential services are unclear. Certain critical terms of the
services have not yet been negotiated, including the fee that we would receive for the service and Genentech could elect to acquire the drug materials without the Company's assistance either by
manufacturing them in-house or utilizing a third-party vendor. Therefore, no portion of the $28.0 million up-front payment has been allocated to the contingent CMC
services that the Company may be obligated to perform in the future. 
The
first non-contingent deliverable required the Company to prepare specified clinical materials for delivery to Genentech, and the Company completed this delivery in December 2011, by
the date 
F-27



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
specified
in the agreement. The second and final obligation related to the non-contingent deliverable of assisting in the filing of the IND application was completed as of March 31,
2012. The agreement provides for no general right of return for any non-contingent deliverable. Consequently, the amount of revenue allocated to each deliverable was determined using the
relative selling price method under which revenue is allocated to each identified deliverable based on its estimated stand-alone value in relation to the combined estimated stand-alone value of all
deliverables. The allocated consideration for each deliverable is then recognized over the related obligation period for that deliverable. 
The
determination of the stand-alone value for each non-contingent deliverable requires the use of significant estimates by management, including estimates of the time to complete the
transfer of related technology and assist in filing the IND. Further, to determine the stand-alone value of the license and initial milestone, the Company considered the negotiation discussions that
lead to the final terms of the agreement, publically available data for similar licensing arrangements between other companies and the economic terms of previous collaborations the Company has entered
into with other partners. 
The
Company recognized $25.9 million in License and Milestone revenue and $8.8 million in Collaboration Revenue related to the partnership with Genentech during the twelve month period
ended June 30, 2012. The Company recognized $4.7 million in License and Milestone revenue and $11.2 million in Collaboration Revenue related to the partnership with Genentech
during the twelve month period ended June 30, 2011. 
 NOTE 7 – EMPLOYEE BONUS  
The Company's annual employee performance bonus program is payable in cash or in shares of common stock if the Company meets certain financial,
discovery, development and partnering goals approved by the Company's Compensation Committee during a fiscal year. The bonus is typically paid in the second quarter of the next fiscal year, and the
Company accrues an estimate of the expected aggregate bonus in Accrued Compensation and Benefits in the accompanying Balance Sheets. As of June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company had accrued
in Accrued Compensation and Benefits $4.4 million, $3.3 million, and $6.5 million, respectively for the program. The fiscal 2011 bonus was paid in shares of common stock resulting
in the issuance of 1.1 million shares and in cash of approximately $1.2 million to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations. 
F-28



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 NOTE 8 – LONG-TERM DEBT  
Long-term debt consists of our credit facilities with Deerfield and our term loan with Comerica Bank in the following amounts (dollars in
thousands): 
















 
 
June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 


 Deerfield credit facilities
 
$
92,562
 
$
96,762
 


 Comerica term loan
 
 
14,700
 
 
14,850
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Long-term debt, gross
 
 
107,262
 
 
111,612
 


 Less: Unamortized discount on Deerfield credit facility
 
 
(15,006
)
 
(20,072
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Long-term debt, net
 
 
92,256
 
 
91,540
 


 Less: Current portion
 
 
(150
)
 
(150
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Long-term debt
 
$
92,106
 
$
91,390
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 Deerfield Credit Facilities  
 Overview  
The Company has two outstanding credit facilities with Deerfield. Under the Facility Agreement entered into in April 2008, the Company borrowed a
total of $80 million (the "2008 Loan"), which was funded in two $40 million payments in June 2008 and December 2008. Terms of the 2008 Loan, including the interest rate and minimum cash
and cash equivalent balances the Company must maintain, were amended in May 2009 when the Company entered into a new Facility Agreement with Deerfield. The Company borrowed an additional
$40 million under the Facility Agreement on July 31, 2009 (the "2009 Loan"). 
In
May 2011, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Deerfield whereby the Company issued and sold to Deerfield 10,135 shares of the Company's Series B Convertible
Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred Stock") for an aggregate purchase price of $30 million, which was satisfied through a reduction of $30 million in principal that otherwise
would have been repaid by April 14 under the Deerfield Facility Agreements. See Note 12 – Shareholders' Equity for
further details on the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock. 
The
Company and Deerfield also modified the terms of both credit facilities in connection with the Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to a letter agreement (the "May 2011 Modification") by
(i) extending the final payment date from April 2014 to June 30, 2016 for $20 million in principal and accrued interest, and to June 30, 2015 for the remaining principal
and accrued interest, (ii) reducing the minimum Cash and Cash Equivalent and Marketable Securities balance the Company must maintain to avoid an increase in the interest rate,
(iii) increasing the amount of outstanding debt that is subject to prepayment out of a percentage of the Company's new collaboration and licensing transactions, as discussed below, and
(iv) increasing the maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock that the Company may issue to satisfy payment of the debt to 11,404,000. Further, the Company extended the term of all
of the warrants to purchase Common Stock previously issued to Deerfield under the credit facilities to June 30, 2016. See the discussion under the caption "Deerfield
Credit Facilities – Warrants" below for further details. 
F-29




 











Table of Contents 
 
    ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.  Notes to the Financial Statements  For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010     
The Company accounted for the amendments to the 2008 Loan in May 2009 and to both credit facilities in May 2011 as modifications rather than extinguishments of the applicable
credit facilities. 
 Terms of the Credit Facilities  
As of June 30, 2012, the Company had $92.6 million in principal outstanding under the Deerfield credit facilities, which includes
approximately $6.8 million of accrued interest under the 2008 Loan that was converted to principal when the 2009 Loan was entered into. Interest and principal may be repaid at the Company's
option at any time with cash or shares of the Company's Common Stock that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with certain restrictions. The Company is also required,
subject to certain exceptions and conditions, to make payments of principal equal to 15% of certain amounts it receives under new licensing, partnering and other similar arrangements entered into
after January 1, 2011 limited to of the principal and accrued interest outstanding. 
Prior
to the disbursement of the 2009 Loan, simple interest of 2% annually was paid quarterly and compound interest accrued at an additional 6.5% annually on the 2008 Loan. Upon disbursement of the
2009 Loan, compound interest stopped accruing and interest became payable monthly at a rate of 7.5% per annum, subject to adjustments based on the Company's total Cash and Cash Equivalents and
Marketable Securities balance as outlined below: 











Total Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities 
 
Interest Rate 


 $60 million or greater
 
7.5%


 Between $50 million and $60 million
 
8.5%


 Between $40 million and $50 million
 
9.5%


 Between $30 million and $40 million
 
12.0%


 Less than $30 million
 
14.5%




The
May 2011 Modification lowered the interest rate structure as follows: 











Total Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable
Securities 
 
Interest Rate 


 $50 million or greater
 
7.5%


 Between $40 million and $50 million
 
8.5%


 Between $30 million and $40 million
 
11.5%


 Less than $30 million
 
13.5%




If
the Company's total Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities at the end of a fiscal quarter falls below $20 million, all amounts outstanding under the credit facilities become
immediately due and payable. 
The
credit facilities are secured by a second priority security interest in the Company's assets, including accounts receivable, equipment, inventory, investment property and general intangible
assets, excluding copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and certain related intangible assets. This security interest and the Company's obligations under the credit facilities are subordinate
to the Company's obligations to Comerica Bank and to Comerica's security interest under the Loan and Security Agreement 
F-30



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
between
the Company and Comerica Bank dated June 28, 2005, as amended, which is discussed below under the caption "Term Loan and Equipment Line of
Credit."
The
Facility Agreements contain representations, warranties and affirmative and negative covenants that are customary for credit facilities of this type. The Facility Agreements restrict the Company's
ability to, among other things, sell certain assets, engage in a merger or change in control transaction, incur debt, pay cash dividends and make investments. The Facility Agreements also contain
events of default that are customary for credit facilities of this type, including payment
defaults, covenant defaults, insolvency type defaults and events of default relating to liens, judgments, material misrepresentations and the occurrence of certain material adverse events. 
 Debt Issuance Costs  
The Company paid Deerfield transaction fees of $1 million on each of the two disbursements under the 2008 Loan, and of $500 thousand on
July 10, 2009 and $500 thousand when the funds were drawn under the 2009 Loan. The transaction fees are included in Other Long-term Assets in the accompanying Balance Sheets.
Prior to the May 2011 Modification, the Company amortized these transaction fees to Interest Expense in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss over the respective terms of
each of the credit facilities. 
There
were no transaction fees paid to Deerfield for the May 2011 Modification. However, due to the prepayment of $30 million of principal, the Company charged off a proportional amount of the
unamortized debt issuance costs totaling $426 thousand to Loss on Prepayment of Debt, Net in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The remaining unamortized debt
issuance costs are being amortized to Interest Expense from the May 3, 2011 Modification date through the end of the debt term of June 2016 in the Statements of Operations and Comprehensive
Loss. 
Other
direct issuance costs in connection with these transactions were expensed as incurred and were not significant. 
 Embedded Derivatives  
The credit facilities contain two embedded derivatives: (1) the variable interest rate structure described above and (2) Deerfield's
right to accelerate the loan upon certain changes of control of the Company or an event of default, which is considered a significant transaction contingent put option. As discussed in  Note 1 – Overview and
Basis of Presentation under the caption Long-term Debt and Embedded
Derivatives, these derivatives are valued and reported as Derivative Liabilities in the Company's financial statements and are collectively referred to as the "Embedded
Derivatives." Under the fair value hierarchy, the Company measured the fair value of the Embedded Derivatives using Level III, or unobservable inputs, as there is no active market for them. 
To
estimate the fair value of the variable interest rate feature, the Company makes assumptions as to the interest rates that may be in effect during the term, which in turn depends on the Company's
Cash and Cash Equivalent and Marketable Securities balance as noted above. Therefore, the Company must project its monthly cash balances over the term of the Credit Facilities. Such forecasts are
inherently subjective and may not reflect actual results, although management believes the assumptions upon which they are based are reasonable. If any assumptions underlying such forecasts change or
prove to 
F-31



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
be
incorrect, it could have a material impact on the estimated fair value of the variable interest rate feature. 
To
estimate the fair value of the contingent put right, the Company estimates the probability of a change in control of the Company that would trigger Deerfield's acceleration rights as specified in
the Facility Agreements, including a change in control in which the acquirer does not meet certain financial conditions, based on size and credit worthiness. The Company's evaluation of this
probability is based on its expectations as to the size and financial strength of probable acquirers, including history of collaboration partners, the probability of an acquisition occurring during
the term of the Credit Facilities and other factors, all of which are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. The May 2011 Modification reduced the size of the acquirer that would trigger this
provision which affected the Company's estimated fair value of the put right. 
To
account for the impact of the May 2011 Modification on the Embedded Derivatives, the Company valued the Embedded Derivatives on the modification date, both immediately before and after the
transaction, in addition to valuing the Embedded Derivatives at the respective Balance Sheet dates. The May 2011 Modification resulted in an increase to the value of the Embedded Derivatives of
approximately $65 thousand which was recorded as a component of Loss on Prepayment of the Debt, Net in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2011. All other fair value adjustments have been recorded as adjustments to Interest Expense in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income during the
period incurred. 
Management
will continue to assess the assumptions used in its determination of the fair value of the Embedded Derivatives. Future changes affecting these assumptions could materially affect their
estimated fair value resulting in a corresponding adjustment to the Company's reported results of operations in future periods. For example, the value of the embedded derivative relating to the
variable interest rate feature as of June 30, 2012 of $656 thousand is based on the assumption that the Company's total cash and marketable securities balance could fall to between
$40 million and $50 million as of the end of a nine-month period during the remaining 48 months of the facility. The below table summarizes the potential impact of the
use of two other assumptions relating to the periods during which the Company's total cash and marketable securities are at the
levels shown in the table compared to the assumptions used by management as of June 30, 2012 and the resulting estimated increases to the value of the Embedded Derivatives in the accompanying
Balance Sheet and Interest Expense in the Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss (dollars in thousands): 



















 
 
Assumed Number of Months 
 


Cash Balance 
 
As of June 30, 2012 
 
Scenario 1 
 
Scenario 2 
 


 $50 million or greater
 
 
39
 
 
27
 
 
6
 


 Between $40 million and $50 million
 
 
9
 
 
18
 
 
36
 


 Between $30 million and $40 million
 
 
-    
 
 
3
 
 
6
 


 Less than $30 million
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 


 Effective Interest Rate
 
 

7.7
%
 

8.1
%
 

8.8
%


 Derivative Fair Value
 
$
656
 
$
1,563
 
$
2,858
 


 Additional Interest Expense
 
$
-    
 
$
907
 
$
2,202
 




F-32



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 Fair Value of the Debt  
The Company estimates the fair value of the Deerfield debt using a combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and the
Black-Derman-Toy interest rate model that incorporates the estimates discussed above for the Embedded Derivatives. The fair value of the debt was determined to be $73.4 million and
$72.6 million at June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011, respectively. 
 Warrants Issued to Deerfield  
In consideration for providing the 2008 Loan, the Company issued warrants to Deerfield to purchase 6,000,000 shares of Common Stock at an exercise
price of $7.54 per share (the "Prior Warrants"). Pursuant to the terms of the Facility Agreement for the 2009 Loan, the Prior Warrants were terminated and the Company issued new warrants to Deerfield
to purchase 6,000,000 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $3.65 (the "Exchange Warrants"). The Company also issued Deerfield warrants to purchase an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares of the
Company's Common Stock at an exercise price of $4.19 (the "New Warrants" and collectively with the Exchange Warrants, the "Warrants") when the funds were disbursed on July 31, 2009. The
Exchange Warrants contain substantially the same terms as the Prior Warrants, except they have a lower per share exercise price. The Warrants were exercisable commencing January 31, 2010, and
expire on April 29, 2014, which was extended to June 30, 2016 in connection with the May 2011 Modification. 
The
Company allocated the loan proceeds between the debt and the Warrants based upon their relative estimated fair values. The fair values were determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model
and were allocated to Warrants and Debt Discount discussed below in the accompanying Balance Sheets. 
The
Company calculated the incremental value of the Exchange Warrants as the difference between the value of the Exchange Warrants at the new exercise price ($3.65) and the value of the Prior Warrants
at the prior exercise price ($7.54) using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Company calculated the incremental value of the May 2011 Modification's new Warrant term as the
difference in the fair value of the Warrants as of the date of the modification with the new term (June 30, 2016) and the value of the Warrants with the old term (April 29, 2014) using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model. 
A
summary of the estimated fair value of the Warrants and the loan proceeds allocated to the debt follows as of the date of each transaction (dollars in thousands): 
















 
 
Proceeds 
 
Warrant Value 
 


 2008 Loan
 
$
80,000
 
$
20,589
 


 2009 Loan including Exchange Warrants
 
 
40,000
 
 
15,706
 


 May 2011 Modification
 
 
N/A
 
 
3,090
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
$
39,385
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Debt Discount  
The value of the Warrants and the initial value of the Embedded Derivatives discussed above were recorded to Debt Discount in the accompanying
Balance Sheets. The Debt Discount attributable to the 
F-33



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
Warrants
and the Embedded Derivatives was amortized from the respective draw dates of the applicable credit facility to the end of the term of the credit facilities, which was April 29, 2014,
and recorded to Interest Expense in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 
With
the May 2011 Modification and the prepayment of $30 million of principal, the Company charged off a proportional amount of the unamortized Debt Discount totaling $5.8 million to
Loss on Prepayment of Debt, Net in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The remaining unamortized discount, including the incremental value of $3.1 million related
to the extended term of the Warrants from the May 2011 Modification, is being amortized to Interest Expense in the Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss from the modification date through
the final repayment date of June 30, 2016 using the effective interest method. 
 Summary of Loss on Prepayment of Debt, Net  
A summary of the components of the Loss on Prepayment of Debt, Net for the Deerfield credit facilities follows (dollars in thousands): 
















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 


 Write off proportional value of the debt discount
 
$
(887
)
$
(5,849
)


 Write off proportional value of the unamortized
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 debt issuance costs
 
 
(55
)
 
(426
)


 Fair value adjustment for the Embedded Derivatives
 
 
—
 
 
(65
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss on prepayment of long-term debt, net
 
$
(942
)
$
(6,340
)


 
 
 
 
 
 




 Summary of Interest Expense  
Interest expense recognized by the Company for the Deerfield facilities follows (dollars in thousands): 



















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Simple interest
 
$
6,492
 
$
8,637
 
$
8,850
 


 Amortization of the transaction fees
 
 
240
 
 
513
 
 
549
 


 Amortization of the debt discounts
 
 
4,179
 
 
6,106
 
 
5,948
 


 Change in value of the Embedded Derivatives
 
 
116
 
 
(350
)
 
(237
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total interest expense on the Deerfield Credit Facility
 
$
11,027
 
$
14,906
 
$
15,110
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Comerica Term Loan and Equipment Line of Credit  
The Company entered into a Loan and Security Agreement ("Loan and Security Agreement") with Comerica Bank dated June 28, 2005, which has been
subsequently amended. The Loan and Security 
F-34



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
Agreement
provides for a term loan, equipment advances and a revolving line of credit, all of which are secured by a first priority security interest in the Company's assets, other than its
intellectual property. 
The
full $10 million term loan was advanced to the Company on June 30, 2005. The Company received the total $5 million of equipment advances by June 30, 2007. 
On
March 31, 2010, the term and interest rate structure of the Loan and Security Agreement were amended. The term loan and equipment advances were also combined into one instrument referred to
as the term loan. The maturity date was extended three years from October 26, 2010 to October 26, 2013. Effective April 1, 2010, the outstanding balances under the term loan and
the equipment advances bear interest on a monthly basis at the Prime Rate, as quoted by Comerica Bank, but will not be less than the sum of Comerica Bank's daily adjusting LIBOR rate plus an
incremental contractually predetermined rate. This rate is variable, ranging from the Prime Rate to the Prime Rate plus 4%, based on the total dollar amount the Company has invested at Comerica and in
what investment option those funds are invested. 
In
addition, revolving lines of credit of $6.8 million have been established to support standby letters of credit in relation to the Company's facilities leases. These standby letters of credit
expire on January 31, 2014 and August 31, 2016. 
As
of June 30, 2012, the term loan had an interest rate of 3.25% per annum. The Company recognized $597 thousand, $601 thousand and $638 thousand of interest expense for
the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The
following table outlines the level of Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities, which the Company must hold in accounts at Comerica Bank per the Loan and Security Agreement based on the
Company's total Cash, Cash Equivalent and Marketable Securities, which was modified as part of the March 31, 2010 amendment. 













Total Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities 
 
Cash on Hand
at Comerica 
 


 Greater than $40 million
 
$
-    
 


 Between $25 million and $40 million
 
$
10,000,000
 


 Less than $25 million
 
$
22,000,000
 




The
Loan and Security Agreement contains representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants that are customary for credit facilities of this type. The Loan and Security Agreement
restricts the Company's ability to, among other things, sell certain assets, engage in a merger or change in control transaction, incur debt, pay cash dividends and make investments. The Loan and
Security Agreement also contains events of default that are customary for credit facilities of this type, including payment defaults, covenant defaults, insolvency type defaults and events of default
relating to liens, judgments, material misrepresentations and the occurrence of certain material adverse events. 
The
estimated fair value of the Loan and Security Agreement was determined using a discounted cash flow model and was calculated at $14.7 million and $14.9 million as of June 30,
2012 and 2011, respectively. 
F-35




 











Table of Contents 
 
    ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.  Notes to the Financial Statements  For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010     
 Commitment Schedule  
The Company is required to make principal payments under the Facility Agreements with Deerfield and the Term Loan and Security Agreement with
Comerica as follows (dollars in thousands): 













 
 
 
 


 For the twelve months ended June 30, 
 
 
 
 


 2013
 
$
150
 


 2014
 
 
14,550
 


 2015
 
 
72,562
 


 2016
 
 
20,000
 


 2017
 
 
-    
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
107,262
 


 
 
 
 




 NOTE 9 – RESTRUCTURING CHARGES  
 Fiscal 2011 Restructuring  
On June 13, 2011, the Company implemented a reduction in its workforce by approximately 70 employees. The terminated employees were notified
on June 13, 2011, and were primarily in discovery research and support positions. The reductions were made to better balance the staffing between discovery and development groups and reduce the
rate of spending. The actions associated with the reductions were completed during the quarter ended June 30, 2011. 
As
a result of the reductions, the Company recorded a restructuring charge of approximately $3.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Of this charge, $1.3 million was recorded
in Cost of Revenue, $2.1 million was recorded in Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug
Discovery, and $283 thousand was recorded in General and Administrative Expenses in the accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The restructuring charge is associated with
the payment of termination benefits that the Company either paid in cash during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 or in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The Company paid out $3.2 million as of
June 30, 2011 and accrued the remaining $500 thousand as Other Accrued Expenses in the accompanying Balance Sheets. These termination benefits consisted of a severance payment based on
the affected employee's length of service with the Company, a health benefit payment that the employee may use to pay the premiums to continue health care coverage under COBRA and outplacement
assistance. Payment of these termination benefits was contingent on the affected employee entering into a separation and release agreement with the Company. 
Also
following the reduction, one of the Company's significant laboratory areas at its Longmont, Colorado facility was vacated as of June 30, 2011. The Company is attempting to sublet the
vacated space; however, the future expected receipts from subletting over a portion of the remaining four-year term of the Company's primary lease is less than the net book value of the
lease hold improvements. The rental income from subletting was determined by taking into account current market rates for laboratory and other types of space in the area, general levels of vacancy,
estimated time required to obtain a sublease and the probability of success in concluding a sub-lease. The Company therefore recorded an impairment 
F-36



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
charge
of $1.8 million in June 2011 for the remaining book value of the leasehold improvements. This non-cash charge is included in the Fiscal 2011 Statement of Operations and
Comprehensive Loss in Cost of Revenue, Research and Development Expenses for Proprietary Drug Discovery and General and Administrative Expenses in the amounts of $339 thousand,
$1.5 million, and $27 thousand, respectively. 
The
Company evaluated its facility needs and may decide to vacate the remaining space in one of the two buildings at its Longmont location in the next one or two years. If it does so or concludes it
is more likely than not to vacate the remaining space within a defined period, the Company may have additional impairment charges relating to the remaining book value of any improvements. For example,
a smaller portion of the building that is not yet vacated continues to carry approximately $500 thousand in net book value for leasehold improvements. If the Company concludes that it is more
likely than not to vacate the remaining space within a defined period, the remaining net book value at the time will be evaluated for impairment at that time. In addition, if the Company does vacate
the building, the Company will record as an additional expense the present value of future rent payments, less applicable deferred rent amounts, to the extent it exceeds potential sublet income. 
 NOTE 10 – INCOME TAXES  
The Company has incurred net losses since inception. The Company recorded no income tax provision or benefit during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. 
A
reconciliation of income taxes at the statutory federal income tax rate to net income taxes included in the accompanying statements of operations is: 



















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 U.S. federal income tax expense at the statutory rate
 
 
34.0%
 
 
34.0%
 
 
34.0%
 


 Interest expense disallowed under Sec.163(l)
 
 
(15.6%
)
 
(8.7%
)
 
(6.4%
)


 Available research and experimentation tax credits
 
 
12.9%
 
 
6.4%
 
 
5.5%
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
(2.6%
)
 
(1.5%
)
 
(1.6%
)


 (Gain)/Loss on early prepayment of debt
 
 
(1.4%
)
 
(3.8%
)
 
0.0%
 


 FIN 48 reserve releases
 
 
7.3%
 
 
0.0%
 
 
0.0%
 


 Rate Change
 
 
(2.2%
)
 
1.1%
 
 
0.0%
 


 Effect of other permanent differences
 
 
0.0%
 
 
(1.9%
)
 
(1.9%
)


 State income taxes, net of federal taxes
 
 
1.4%
 
 
2.0%
 
 
2.5%
 


 Valuation allowance
 
 
(33.8%
)
 
(27.6%
)
 
(32.1%
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
0.0%
 
 
0.0%
 
 
0.0%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Deferred
tax assets and liabilities reflect the net tax effects of net operating losses, credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for
financial reporting purposes and amounts used for income tax purposes. 
F-37



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
The
components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are (dollars in thousands): 
















 
 
June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 


 Current deferred tax assets, gross
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accrued benefits
 
$
2,065
 
$
1,882
 


 Inventory reserve
 
 
1,195
 
 
1,239
 


 Other
 
 
-    
 
 
-    
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current deferred tax assets
 
 
3,260
 
 
3,121
 


 Non-current deferred tax assets, gross
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net operating loss carryforwards
 
 
136,618
 
 
122,194
 


 Capital Loss Carryforwards
 
 
6,114
 
 
6,838
 


 Research and experimentation credit carryforwards
 
 
23,970
 
 
21,325
 


 Deferred revenue
 
 
17,027
 
 
25,874
 


 Deferred rent
 
 
5,574
 
 
6,835
 


 Depreciation of property and equipment
 
 
6,279
 
 
4,859
 


 Other
 
 
3,926
 
 
3,748
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total non-current deferred tax assets
 
 
199,508
 
 
191,673
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred tax assets
 
 
202,768
 
 
194,794
 


 Long-term deferred tax liability
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unrealized gain on marketable securities
 
 
-    
 
 
(1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total long-term deferred tax liability
 
 
-    
 
 
(1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liability
 
 
202,768
 
 
194,793
 


 Valuation allowance
 
 

(202,768
)
 

(194,793
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance
 
$
-    
 
$
-    
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




Based
upon the level of historical taxable loss and projections of future taxable losses over the periods in which the deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is more likely than
not that the Company will not realize the benefits of these deductible differences and accordingly has established a full valuation allowance as of June 30, 2012 and 2011. 
Future
realization depends on the future earnings of the Company, if any, the timing and amount of which are uncertain as of June 30, 2012. In the future, should management conclude that it is
more likely than not that the deferred tax assets are, in fact, at least in part, realizable, the valuation allowance would be reduced to the extent of such expected realization and recognized as a
deferred income tax benefit in the Company's Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 
Certain
tax benefits from employee stock option exercises are included in the deferred tax asset balances as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 as a component of the Company's net operating loss
carryforwards. The entire balance is offset by a valuation allowance. The deferred tax asset balances as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 do not include excess tax benefits from stock option exercises
of approximately $4.5 million for fiscal 2012 and 2011. Equity will be increased if and when such excess tax benefits are ultimately realized. 
F-38



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
As
of June 30, 2012, the Company had available total net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $381.0 million, which expire in the years 2020 through 2031, and federal research
and experimentation credit carryforwards of $26.2 million, which expire in the years 2022 through 2031. Capital loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2015. 
The
Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains provisions, among others, that limit the utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income and tax, and may therefore
result in the expiration of a portion of those carryforwards before they are utilized, if there has been a "change of ownership" as described in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, and
under similar state provisions. During fiscal 2012, the Company conducted a study to determine whether a change of ownership event occurred in prior fiscal years that would limit the net operating
losses available to fully offset the Company's taxable income for the year ended June 30, 2011. Based on the Company's analysis, approximately $40 thousand of the Company's net operating
losses may not be used to offset taxable income. The Company has provided a valuation allowance against the entire amount of its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The Company will
continue to evaluate its exposure to past and future events that could limit its ability to utilize its net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in future years. 
The
Company follows a comprehensive model for recognizing, measuring, presenting and disclosing uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return. Tax positions must initially be
recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination by the tax authorities. Such tax positions must initially and subsequently be
measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the tax authority assuming full knowledge of the position and
relevant facts. 
The
cumulative effect of accounting for tax contingencies in this manner has been recorded net in deferred tax assets, which resulted in no liability being recorded on the Company's accompanying
Balance Sheets. The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 are (dollars in thousands): 
















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 


 Balance as of beginning of year
 
$
3,985
 
$
2,989
 


 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
 
 
796
 
 
996
 


 Additions for tax positions of prior year
 
 
(6
)
 
-    
 


 Reductions for tax positions of prior year
 
 
(1,807
)
 
-    
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance as of end of year
 
$
2,968
 
$
3,985
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




There
are open statutes of limitations for taxing authorities in federal and state jurisdictions to audit the Company's tax returns from inception of the Company. The Company's policy is to account
for income tax related interest and penalties in income tax expense in the accompanying Statements of Operations. There have been no income tax related interest or penalties assessed or recorded.
Because the Company has provided a full valuation allowance on all of its deferred tax assets, the adoption accounting for tax contingencies had no impact on the Company's effective tax rate. 
F-39



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 NOTE 11 – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  
 Operating Leases  
The Company leases facilities and equipment under various non-cancelable operating leases that expire through 2016. In addition to
minimum lease payments, the Company is contractually obligated under certain of its lease agreements to pay certain operating expenses during the term of the leases, such as maintenance, taxes and
insurance. 
As
of June 30, 2012, future minimum rental commitments, by fiscal year and in the aggregate, for the Company's operating leases are (dollars in thousands): 













For the twelve months ended June 30,



 
 
 


 2013
 
$
8,175
 


 2014
 
 
8,262
 


 2015
 
 
8,202
 


 2016
 
 
8,285
 


 2017
 
 
368
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
33,292
 


 
 
 
 




Rent
expense under these agreements follows (dollars in thousands): 



















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Cash paid for rent
 
$
8,549
 
$
8,484
 
$
8,306
 


 Deferred rent credits
 
 
(3,333
)
 
(3,180
)
 
(3,034
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Rent expense, net
 
$
5,216
 
$
5,304
 
$
5,272
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Legal Proceedings  
From time to time, the Company may be involved in claims or lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business. Accruals for claims or lawsuits
are provided to the extent that losses are deemed both probable and estimable. Although the ultimate outcome of these claims or lawsuits cannot be ascertained, on the basis of present information and
advice received from counsel, it is management's opinion that the disposition or ultimate determination of such claims or lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. 
 NOTE 12 – STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT  
 Series B Preferred Stock  
On May 3, 2011, the Company issued and sold to Deerfield 10,135 shares of the Company's Series B Preferred Stock, for an aggregate
purchase price of $30 million, pursuant to the terms of a Securities 
F-40



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
Purchase
Agreement between the Company and Deerfield as discussed in Note 8 – Long-Term Debt – Deerfield Credit
Facilities. 
The
rights, preferences and privileges of the Series B Preferred Stock are set forth in a Certificate of Designations filed by the Company with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.
Each share of Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into 1,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock at any time at the option of the holder, provided that the holder will be prohibited from
converting Series B Preferred Stock into shares of the Company's Common Stock if, as a result of such conversion, the holder, together with its affiliates, would own more than 9.985% of the
total number of shares of the Company's Common Stock then issued and outstanding. In the event of the Company's liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, holders of the Company's Series B
Preferred Stock will receive a payment equal to $0.001 per share of Series B Preferred Stock before any proceeds are distributed to the holders of the Common Stock or any class of stock that is
subsequently authorized and issued that ranks junior to the Series B Preferred Stock. Shares of Series B Preferred Stock generally have no voting rights, except as required by law and
except that the consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding Series B Preferred Stock will be required to amend the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock or the Certificate of
Designations. The Series B Preferred Stock will not be entitled to receive any dividends, unless and until specifically declared by the Company's Board of Directors. 
The
shares of Series B Preferred Stock were issued pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 filed by the Company and previously declared effective by the Securities
and Exchange Commission, but are not listed or quoted on any stock exchange or listing. 
Under
the fair value hierarchy, the Company measured the fair value of the Series B Preferred Stock using Level III, or unobservable inputs. To estimate fair value of Series B
Preferred Stock, the Company considered the closing price of its common stock on the date of the Deerfield May 2011 Modification, as discussed further in  Note 8 – Long-term Debt – Deerfield Credit
Facilities, as the best indicator of the market
value of its Series B Preferred Stock due to the inherent similarities of the securities, as discussed above. This market valuation was applied to the 10,135 issued shares of Series B
Preferred Stock in accordance with the specified conversion rate in which each share of Series B Preferred Stock converts to 1,000 shares of common stock. 
During
fiscal 2012, Deerfield converted 7,414.188 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock into 7,414,188 shares of common stock in non-cash transactions pursuant to the terms
of the Certificate of Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. The exchanges had no impact on the Company's results of operations for the
period ended June 30, 2012 and there were no associated cash flows. As of June 30, 2012, there are 2,720.812 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. 
 Common Stock  
The Company has 120,000,000 shares of Common Stock that are authorized for issuance under its Restated Certificate of Incorporation. 
F-41



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 Reserved Shares  
As of June 30, 2012, common stock reserved for future issuance is: 













 Common stock reserved for the Warrants
 
 
12,000,000
 


 Common stock reserved for the Series B Preferred Stock
 
 
2,721,000
 


 Outstanding common stock options under the Stock Option
 
 
 
 


 and Incentive Plan
 
 
8,742,486
 


 Common stock reserved and available for grant under the
 
 
 
 


 Stock Option and Incentive Plan
 
 
3,072,236
 


 Common stock reserved and available for grant under the
 
 
 
 


 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
 
725,232
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
27,260,954
 


 
 
 
 




 Public Offering of Common Stock  
On February 14, 2012, the Company sold 23 million shares of its common stock at a public offering price of $2.60 per share. The Company
received net proceeds from the sale of the shares, after underwriting discounts and commissions and related offering expenses, of approximately $56.1 million. The Company intends to use the net
proceeds from this offering to fund research and development efforts, including clinical trials for Array's proprietary candidates, and for general corporate purposes. 
 NOTE 13 – EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PLANS  
 Employee Savings Plan  
The Company has a 401(k) plan that allows participants to contribute from 1% to 60% of their salary, subject to eligibility requirements and annual
IRS limits. The Company matches up to 4% of employee contributions on a discretionary basis as determined by the Company's Board of Directors. Company contributions are fully vested after four years
of employment. The Company paid matching contributions of approximately $1.0 million, $1.3 million and $1.2 million during the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. 
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan  
The ESPP, as amended, was adopted effective upon the closing of the Company's initial public offering in November 2000. The ESPP allows qualified
employees (as defined in the ESPP) to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at a price equal to 85% of the lower of the closing price at the beginning of the offering period or of the closing
price at the end of the offering period. Effective each January 1, a new 12 month offering period begins ending on December 31 of that year. However, if the closing stock price on
July 1 is lower than the closing stock price on the preceding January 1, then the original 12 month offering period terminates and the purchase rights under the original offering
period roll forward into a new six month offering period that begins July 1 and ends on December 31. 
As
of June 30, 2012, the Company had 725,232 shares available for issuance under the Plan. 
F-42




 











Table of Contents 
 
    ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.  Notes to the Financial Statements  For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010     

A summary of the ESPP activity follows: 



















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Number of shares issued
 
 
443,651
 
 
529,307
 
 
525,695
 


 Average purchase price
 
$
1.84
 
$
2.38
 
$
2.39
 


 Compensation expense (in thousands)
 
$
252
 
$
538
 
$
783
 




 Stock Option and Incentive Plan  
 Overview  
In September 2000, the Company's Board of Directors approved the Amended and Restated Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "Option Plan") As of
June 30, 2012, 3,072,236 shares of common stock are reserved for future issuance under the Option Plan to eligible employees, consultants and directors of the Company. Of the shares available
for future issuance, 1,852,795 are available for issuance as incentive stock options. The remaining shares can be used for other awards under the Option Plan. In addition, the Option Plan provides for
the reservation of
additional authorized shares on any given day in an amount equal to the difference between: 


(i)25%
of the Company's issued and outstanding shares of common stock, on a fully diluted and as-converted basis; and
(ii)The
number of outstanding shares relating to awards under the Option Plan plus the number of shares available for future grants of awards under the Option
Plan on that date. 

However,
in no event shall the number of additional authorized shares determined pursuant to this formula exceed, when added to the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding and reserved for
issuance under the Option Plan other than pursuant to this formula, under the ESPP and upon conversion or exercise of outstanding warrants or convertible securities, the total number of shares of
Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. 
The
Option Plan provides for awards of both non-statutory stock options and incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended restricted stock and other incentive awards and rights to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. 
The
Option Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which has the authority to select the individuals to whom awards will be granted, the number of shares, vesting
terms, exercise price and term of each option grant. Generally, options have a four-year annual vesting term, an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying shares at the
grant date and a ten-year life from the date of grant. 
The
Company has entered into employment agreements with the Company's executive officers. Under these agreements, if a participating executive's employment is terminated without cause or upon a change
in control, then the executive is entitled to accelerated vesting of all or a portion of his unvested stock options as provided in the executive's agreement. 
F-43



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 Accounting for Stock Options  
 Fair Value Assumptions  
The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock options and used the following assumptions to obtain the
following weighted average grant date fair values: 


















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 


 Risk-free interest rate
 
 
0.9% - 1.45%
 
 
1.9% - 2.6%
 
 
2.7% - 3.0%


 Expected option term in years
 
 
6.25
 
 
6.25
 
 
6.25


 Expected volatility
 
 
63.8% - 65.8%
 
 
63.3% - 64.4%
 
 
64.3% - 65.1%


 Dividend yield
 
 
0.0%
 
 
0.0%
 
 
0.0%


 Weighted-average grant date fair value
 
$
2.04
 
$
1.86
 
$
1.59





The
risk-free interest rates are determined by reference to the constant maturity Treasury rates published by the Federal Reserve that approximate the expected option term. The Company
estimates the expected option term based upon historical exercises and post-vesting termination behavior. The Company estimates expected volatility using daily historical trading data of
the Company's common stock, primarily because this method is
recognized as a valid method used to predict future volatility and management has not identified a more appropriate method. The Company has never paid dividends and currently has no plans to do so, so
no dividend yield is applied. 
Share-based
compensation expense is recognized net of estimated pre-vesting forfeitures, which results in recognition of expense on options that are ultimately expected to vest over the
expected option term. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant using actual historical forfeiture experience and are revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those
estimates. 
F-44



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 Summary of Activity  
A summary of option activity under the Option Plan follows: 
















 
 
Number of
Shares
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price
 


 
 
 
 


 Outstanding balance as of June 30, 2009
 
 
9,263,265
 
$
7.06
 


 Grants
 
 
1,217,300
 
$
2.56
 


 Exercises
 
 
(397,623
)
$
0.62
 


 Cancellations/expirations
 
 
(243,032
)
$
7.71
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding balance as of June 30, 2010
 
 
9,839,910
 
$
6.75
 


 Grants
 
 
1,296,325
 
$
3.11
 


 Exercises
 
 
(75,941
)
$
3.01
 


 Cancellations/expirations
 
 
(1,001,071
)
$
5.29
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding balance as of June 30, 2011
 
 
10,059,223
 
$
6.45
 


 Grants
 
 
2,922,989
 
$
3.39
 


 Exercises
 
 
(137,397
)
$
2.56
 


 Cancellations/expirations
 
 
(4,102,329
)
$
7.81
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding balance as of June 30, 2012
 
 
8,742,486
 
$
4.85
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Vested and exercisable as of June 30, 2012
 
 
4,432,654
 
$
6.34
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




The
weighted average grant date fair value per share of options outstanding was $2.04, $1.86 and $1.59 for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The total intrinsic value,
or the difference between the aggregate exercise price and the aggregate market price on the day of exercise, of options exercised was $78 thousand, $6 thousand and $768 thousand
for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The total fair value of shares vested during the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $2.2 million,
$3.6 million and $5.2 million, respectively. 
F-45



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
The
following table summarizes information about options outstanding and currently exercisable as of June 30, 2012 for the ranges of exercise prices presented below: 































 
 
Stock Options Outstanding 
 
Stock Options Exercisable 
 


Exercise Price
 
Number
of Options
Outstanding
 
Weighted
Average
Remaining
Contract
Term in
Years
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value
 
Number
of Options
Exercisable
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value
 


 
 


 $1.74 - $2.99
 
 
1,063,599
 
 
8.1
 
$
2.55
 
$
983,416
 
 
340,249
 
$
2.60
 
$
297,165
 


 $3.01 - $3.40
 
 
2,697,803
 
 
8.4
 
$
3.20
 
 
678,855
 
 
673,513
 
$
3.09
 
 
253,731
 


 $3.47 - $3.82
 
 
1,579,323
 
 
9.4
 
$
3.62
 
 
-    
 
 
98,787
 
$
3.69
 
 
-    
 


 $4.00 - $5.75
 
 
176,709
 
 
4.7
 
$
5.09
 
 
-    
 
 
172,459
 
$
5.10
 
 
-    
 


 $6.22 - $6.99
 
 
1,852,706
 
 
4.3
 
$
6.42
 
 
-    
 
 
1,781,950
 
$
6.43
 
 
-    
 


 $7.01 - $7.81
 
 
231,010
 
 
3.6
 
$
7.29
 
 
-    
 
 
225,260
 
$
7.28
 
 
-    
 


 $8.17 - $8.88
 
 
730,086
 
 
2.2
 
$
8.39
 
 
-    
 
 
729,186
 
$
8.39
 
 
-    
 


 $9.00 - $10.87
 
 
212,400
 
 
5.1
 
$
10.46
 
 
-    
 
 
212,400
 
$
10.46
 
 
-    
 


 $11.07 - $13.95
 
 
198,850
 
 
4.9
 
$
12.47
 
 
-    
 
 
198,850
 
$
12.47
 
 
-    
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
8,742,486
 
 
6.8
 
$
4.85
 
$
1,662,271
 
 
4,432,654
 
$
6.34
 
$
550,896
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value to the holder for stock options with an exercise price less
than the Company's closing stock price of $3.47 as of June 30, 2012, the last trading day of the fiscal year, that would have been received by the option holders had they exercised their
options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money stock options on this basis that were outstanding and that were exercisable as of June 30, 2012 was 3,761,402
and 1,013,762, respectively. 
 Share-Based Compensation Expense  
Share-based compensation expense for the Company's stock options was $2.1 million, $2.8 million and $4.6 million for the fiscal
years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The
Company did not recognize a tax benefit from share-based compensation expense because the Company has concluded that it is not more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets, which have
been reduced by a full valuation allowance, will be realized. 
As
of June 30, 2012, there was approximately $4.2 million of total unrecognized compensation expense (including the impact of expected forfeitures) related to unvested share-based
compensation arrangements granted under the Option Plan. That expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.1 years. 
Cash
received from stock options exercised and purchases under the ESPP during the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $1.2 million, $1.5 million and $1.2 million,
respectively. 
 NOTE 14 – EQUITY DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT  

On September 18, 2009, the Company entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement with Piper Jaffray & Co. (the "Agent") pursuant to which the Company sold from time to time, up to
an aggregate of 
F-46



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 NOTE 14 – EQUITY DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT (Continued) 
$25 million
in shares of its common stock, through the Agent that were registered on a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-155221). Sales of
the shares made pursuant to the Equity Distribution Agreement were made on the NASDAQ Stock Market by means of ordinary brokers' transactions at market prices. This agreement terminated when all of
the remaining shares authorized under the agreement were sold in November 2011. 
A
summary of the transaction data follows: 



















 
 
Years Ended June 30, 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Number of shares sold
 
 
2,935,830
 
 
1,909,127
 
 
3,301,025
 


 Average price per share
 
$
2.50
 
$
3.17
 
$
3.51
 


 Gross proceeds (in thousands)
 
$
7,344
 
$
6,060
 
$
11,593
 


 Commissions (in thousands)
 
$
(220
)
$
(183
)
$
(348
)


 Other costs (in thousands)
 
$
(75
)
$
(98
)
$
(275
)




F-47



 
Table of Contents

ARRAY BIOPHARMA, INC.
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
 NOTE 15 – SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED – See accompanying accountants' report)  

The tables below summarize the Company's unaudited quarterly operating results for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 (dollars in thousands, except per share data): 






















Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2012 
 
First Quarter 
 
Second Quarter 
 
Third Quarter 
 
Fourth Quarter 
 


 Revenue
 
$
22,131
 
$
23,228
 
$
19,113
 
$
20,663
 


 Research and development for proprietary drug discovery
 
$
12,598
 
$
13,150
 
$
16,094
 
$
14,877
 


 Total operating expenses
 
$
22,762
 
$
23,198
 
$
24,611
 
$
25,611
 


 Net loss
 
$
(3,580
)
$
(3,803
)
$
(8,168
)
$
(8,030
)


 Weighted average shares outstanding – basic and diluted
 
 
57,025
 
 
60,004
 
 
74,817
 
 
90,897
 


 Net loss per share – basic and diluted
 
$
(0.06
)
$
(0.06
)
$
(0.11
)
$
(0.09
)




 






















Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 
 
First Quarter 
 
Second Quarter 
 
Third Quarter 
 
Fourth Quarter 
 


 Revenue
 
$
18,513
 
$
16,501
 
$
17,841
 
$
19,046
 


 Research and development for proprietary drug discovery
 
$
13,855
 
$
14,482
 
$
15,883
 
$
19,278
 


 Total operating expenses
 
$
25,404
 
$
25,769
 
$
26,295
 
$
31,207
 


 Net loss
 
$
(10,630
)
$
(12,442
)
$
(11,502
)
$
(21,752
)


 Weighted average shares outstanding – basic and diluted
 
 
53,415
 
 
55,285
 
 
56,129
 
 
56,991
 


 Net loss per share – basic and diluted
 
$
(0.20
)
$
(0.23
)
$
(0.20
)
$
(0.38
)




The
Net Loss per Share amounts above may not sum to the annual amounts presented in the Company's accompanying Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss due to rounding. 
 NOTE 16 – SUBSEQUENT EVENT  

The Company has evaluated subsequent events after the balance sheet date of June 30, 2012 and up to the date the Company filed this Annual Report. 
F-48
















Table of Contents 
 
 
  EXHIBIT INDEX

















Exhibit
No. 
 
Footnote Ref. 
 
Description 


3.1
 
(1)
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Array BioPharma Inc.


3.2
 
(14)
 
Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Array BioPharma Inc.


3.3
 
(17)
 
Bylaws of Array BioPharma Inc., as amended and restated on October 30, 2008


3.4
 
(2)
 
Certificate of Designation of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock


3.5
 
(27)
 
Certificate of Designation of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock


4.1
 
(1)
 
Specimen certificate representing the common stock


4.2
 
(18)
 
Registration Rights Agreement dated May 15, 2009 between the Registrant and Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P. and Deerfield Private Design International, L.P.


4.3
 
(25)
 
Form of Warrant to purchase shares of the registrant's Common Stock issued to Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P., Deerfield Private Design International, L.P., Deerfield Partners, L.P., Deerfield
International, Limited


4.4
 
(27)
 
Form of Amendment No. 1 to Warrant to purchase shares of the registrant's Common Stock issued to Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P., Deerfield Private Design International, L.P., Deerfield Partners,
 L.P., Deerfield International, Limited


10.1
 
(1)
 
Preferred and Common Stock Purchase Agreement between Registrant and the parties whose signatures appear on the signature pages thereto dated May 18, 1998


10.2
 
(1)
 
Amendment to Preferred and Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated August 7, 1998


10.3
 
(1)
 
Series B Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement between Registrant and the parties whose signatures appear on the signature pages thereto dated November 16, 1999


10.4
 
(1)
 
Series C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement between Registrant and the parties whose signatures appear on the signature pages thereto dated August 31, 2000


10.5
 
(1)
 
Amended and Restated Investor Rights Agreement between Registrant and the parties whose signatures appear on the signature pages thereto dated November 16, 1999


10.6
 
(1)
 
Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Investor Rights Agreement between Registrant and the parties whose signatures appear on the signature pages thereto dated August 31, 2000


10.7
 
(1)
 
1998 Stock Option Plan effective July 1, 1998, as amended*


10.8
 
(6)
 
Amended and Restated Array BioPharma Inc. Stock Option and Incentive Plan, as amended*


10.9
 
+ 
 
Amendment to Amended and Restated Array BioPharma Inc. Stock Option and Incentive Plan, as amended*


10.10
 
(13)
 
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement, as amended*







Table of Contents













10.11
 
(13)
 
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, as amended*


10.12
 
(13)
 
Array BioPharma Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan*


10.13
 
(30)
 
Employment Agreement between Registrant and Ron Squarer dated April 24, 2012*


10.14
 
(30)
 
Noncompete Agreement between Registrant and Ron Squarer dated April 24, 2012*


10.15
 
(30)
 
Confidentiality and Inventions Agreement between Registrant and Ron Squarer dated April 24, 2012*


10.16
 
(5)
 
Form of Employment Agreement dated September 1, 2002 between Registrant and each of David L. Snitman, Kevin Koch and R. Michael Carruthers*


10.17
 
(4)
 
Employment Agreement effective as of March 4, 2002 between Registrant and John Moore*


10.18
 
(8)
 
Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan of Array BioPharma Inc. dated December 20, 2004*


10.19
 
(10)
 
First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan of Array BioPharma Inc.*


10.20
 
(1)
 
Research Services Agreement between Registrant and Eli Lilly and Company dated March 22, 2000, as amended**


10.21
 
(3)
 
Research Agreement between Registrant and Amgen Inc. dated as of November 1, 2001**


10.22
 
(2)
 
Lead Generation Collaboration Agreement between Registrant and Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd., dated July 18, 2001**


10.23
 
(7)
 
Collaboration and License Agreement between Registrant and AstraZeneca AB, dated December 18, 2003**


10.24
 
(7)
 
Drug Discovery Collaboration Agreement between Registrant and Genentech, Inc., dated December 22, 2003**


10.25
 
(10)
 
Second Amendment dated October 1, 2005 to the Drug Discovery Collaboration Agreement between Registrant and Genentech, Inc.**


10.26
 
(29)
 
Sixth Amendment to Drug Discovery Collaboration Agreement dated as of September 30, 2010 between the Registrant and Genentech, Inc


10.27
 
(21)
 
Letter Agreement dated July 30, 2009 between the Registrant and Genentech, Inc.**


10.28
 
(31)
 
License Agreement dated August 5, 2011 between the Registrant and Genentech, Inc.**


10.29
 
(9)
 
Drug Discovery Collaboration Agreement between Registrant and InterMune, Inc., dated September 13, 2002 along with Amendment No. 1 dated May 8, 2003, Amendment No. 2 dated January 7, 2004,
 Amendment No. 3 dated September 10, 2004, Amendment No. 4 dated December 7, 2004, Amendment No. 4A dated March 10, 2005 and Amendment No. 5 dated June 30, 2005**


10.30
 
(13)
 
Amendment No. 6 dated February 3, 2006 to the Drug Discovery Collaboration Agreement between Registrant and InterMune, Inc., dated September 13, 2002**


10.31
 
(13)
 
Amendment No. 7 dated June 28, 2006 to the Drug Discovery Collaboration Agreement between Registrant and InterMune, Inc., dated September 13, 2002**







Table of Contents













10.32
 
(12)
 
Exercise of Option to Extend Funding of Research FTEs dated August 31, 2006 to the Drug Discovery Collaboration Agreement between Registrant and InterMune, Inc., dated September 13, 2002


10.33
 
(10)
 
Drug Discovery Agreement between Registrant and Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., dated November 1, 2005**


10.34
 
(16)
 
Drug Discovery and Development Agreement by and between Registrant and Celgene Corporation dated September 21, 2007**


10.35
 
(18)
 
First Amendment to Drug Discovery and Development Agreement between Registrant and Celgene Corporation dated June 17, 2009**


10.36
 
(33)
 
Second Amendment to Drug Discovery and Development Agreement between Registrant and Celgene Corporation dated January 8, 2012**


10.37
 
(9)
 
Loan and Security agreement by and between Registrant and Comerica Bank dated June 28, 2005


10.38
 
(10)
 
First Amendment to Loan and Security agreement by and between Registrant and Comerica Bank dated December 19, 2005.


10.39
 
(12)
 
Second Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement between the Registrant and Comerica Bank dated July 7, 2006


10.40
 
(28)
 
Third Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement dated June 12, 2008 between the Registrant and Comerica Bank


10.41
 
(28)
 
Fourth Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement dated March 11, 2009 between the Registrant and Comerica Bank


10.42
 
(20)
 
Fifth Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement dated September 30, 2009 between the Registrant and Comerica Bank


10.43
 
(23)
 
Sixth Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement dated March 31, 2010 between the Registrant and Comerica Bank


10.44
 
(32)
 
Seventh Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement dated June 11, 2011 between the Registrant and Comerica Bank


10.45
 
(15)
 
Facility Agreement dated April 29, 2008 between the Registrant and Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P. and Deerfield Private Design International, L.P.**


10.46
 
(15)
 
Security Agreement dated April 29, 2008 between the Registrant and Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P. and Deerfield Private Design International, L.P.**


10.47
 
(18)
 
Letter Agreement dated May 15, 2009 amending Security Agreement dated April 29, 2008 between the Registrant and Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P. and Deerfield Private Design International,
 L.P.


10.48
 
(26)
 
Facility Agreement dated May 15, 2009 between the Registrant and Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P., and Deerfield Private Design International**


10.49
 
(27)
 
Letter Agreement dated May 2, 2011 amending the Facility Agreement dated April 28, 2008 and the Facility Agreement dated May 15, 2009 between the Registrant and Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P.,
and Deerfield Private Design International, L.P.


10.50
 
(27)
 
Securities Purchase Agreement dated May 2, 2011 between the Registrant and Deerfield Private Design Fund, L.P., and Deerfield Private Design International, L.P., Deerfield Partners, L.P., and
Deerfield International Limited


10.51
 
(12)
 
Facilities Lease and Assignment dated July 7, 2006 between the Registrant and BMR-3200 Walnut Street LLC







Table of Contents













10.52
 
(12)
 
Facilities Lease and Assignment dated August 9, 2006 between the Registrant and BMR-Trade Center Avenue LLC


10.53
 
(19)
 
Underwriting Agreement dated February 9, 2012 between the Registrant and Jefferies & Company, Inc.


10.54
 
(22)
 
Collaboration and License Agreement dated December 13, 2009 between the Registrant and Amgen Inc.**


10.55
 
(24)
 
Description of Performance Bonus Program*


10.56
 
(28)
 
License Agreement dated April 19, 2010 between the Registrant and Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd.**


10.57
 
(31)
 
Collaboration and License Agreement dated July 12, 2011 between the Registrant and ASLAN Pharmaceuticals**


23.1
 
+ 
 
Consent of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


31.1
 
+ 
 
Certification of Ron Squarer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


31.2
 
+ 
 
Certification of R. Michael Carruthers pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


32.0
 
+ 
 
Certifications of Ron Squarer and R. Michael Carruthers pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


101.INS
 
*** 
 
XBRL Instance Document


101.SCH
 
*** 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document


101.CAL
 
*** 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document


101.LAB
 
*** 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document


101.PRE
 
*** 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document


101.DEF
 
*** 
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document








(1)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Registrant's registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-45922)
(2)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2001 (File
No. 000-31979)
(3)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A as of February 6, 2002 (File
No. 001-16633)
(4)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 (File
No. 001-16633)
(5)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2002 (File
No. 001-16633)
(6)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A with respect to the annual meeting of stockholders
held on October 30, 2008
(7)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2003 (File
No. 001-16633) 




Table of Contents


(8)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of December 20, 2004 (File No. 001-16633)
(9)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 (File
No. 001-16633)
(10)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005 (File
No. 001-16633)
(11)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A with respect to the annual meeting of stockholders
held on October 26, 2011
(12)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006 (File
No. 001-16633)
(13)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 (File
No. 001-16633)
(14)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of November 1, 2007 (File No. 001-16633)
(15)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of May 5, 2008 (File No. 001-16633)
(16)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007 (File
No. 001-16633)
(17)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of October 30, 2008 (File No. 001-16633)
(18)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Registrants Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 (File
No. 001-16633)
(19)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of February 9, 2012 (File No. 001-16633)
(20)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of September 30, 2009 (File
No. 001-16633)
(21)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009 (File
No. 001-16633)
(22)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009 (File
No. 001-16633)
(23)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of March 31, 2010 (File No. 001-16633)
(24)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of September 8, 2011 (File
No. 001-16633)
(25)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A as of May 15, 2009 filed on September 23, 2009 (File
No. 001-16633) 




Table of Contents


(26)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A as of May 15, 2009 filed on September 29, 2009 (File
No. 001-16633)
(27)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of May 2, 2011 (File No. 001-16633)
(28)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Registrants Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 (File
No. 001-16633)
(29)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010 (File
No. 001-16633)
(30)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K as of April 24, 2012 (File No. 001-16633)
(31)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 (File
No. 001-16633)
(32)Incorporated
herein by reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 (File
No. 001-16633) 
(33)Incorporated
by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012 (File No. 001-16633)
+Filed
herewith.
*Management
contract or compensatory plan.
**Confidential
treatment of redacted portions of this exhibit has been granted.
***Furnished
electronically with this report. 











