
10-K
1
d282892d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
    UNITED STATES  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
   
FORM 10-K   
ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
  


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011 
  OR 
 


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    For the Transition Period from
             to                 Commission File Number 1-15997 
  ENTRAVISION
COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 






Delaware
 
95-4783236

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   2425 Olympic Boulevard,
Suite 6000 West  Santa Monica, California 90404 
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) 
  Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:
(310) 447-3870    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Class A Common Stock
 
The New York Stock Exchange
   Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   
None 
  Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ¨ No x 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to
file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ¨ No x    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes x No ¨   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No ¨    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ¨    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
 










 Large accelerated filer ¨
 
Accelerated filer x
 
Non-accelerated filer ¨
 
Smaller reporting company ¨
   Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No x 
  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting
common equity held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2011 was approximately $116,030,082 (based upon the closing price for shares of the registrant’s Class A common stock as reported by The New York Stock Exchange for the last trading
date prior to that date).    As of March 1,
2012, there were 54,267,366 shares, $0.0001 par value per share, of the registrant’s Class A common stock outstanding, 22,188,161 shares, $0.0001 par value per share, of the registrant’s Class B common stock outstanding and 9,352,729
shares, $0.0001 par value per share, of the registrant’s Class U common stock outstanding.    Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 31, 2012 are incorporated by a reference in Part III hereof. 
   
 


Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   PART I 
 










  
    
 
  
Page
 





 ITEM 1.
    
BUSINESS
  
 
2
  





 ITEM 1A.
    
RISK FACTORS
  
 
26
  





 ITEM 1B.
    
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
  
 
37
  





 ITEM 2.
    
PROPERTIES
  
 
37
  





 ITEM 3.
    
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
  
 
37
  





 ITEM 4.
    
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
  
 
37
  



 PART II
   





 ITEM 5.
    
 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

  
 
38
  





 ITEM 6.
    
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
  
 
41
  





 ITEM 7.
    
 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS
  
 
43
  





 ITEM 7A.
    
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
  
 
66
  





 ITEM 8.
    
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
  
 
66
  





 ITEM 9.
    
 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE
  
 
67
  





 ITEM 9A.
    
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
  
 
67
  





 ITEM 9B.
    
OTHER INFORMATION
  
 
70
  



 PART III
   





 ITEM 10.
    
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
  
 
71
  





 ITEM 11.
    
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
  
 
71
  





 ITEM 12.
    
 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS
  
 
71
  





 ITEM 13.
    
 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
  
 
71
  





 ITEM 14.
    
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
  
 
71
  




 PART IV
  








 ITEM 15.
    
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  
 
72
  




 SIGNATURES
  
 
77
  




 POWER OF ATTORNEY
  
 
77
  

  i 


Table of Contents
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS    This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact are “forward-looking statements” for
purposes of federal and state securities laws, including, but not limited to, any projections of earnings, revenue or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements
concerning proposed new services or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. 
  Forward-looking statements may include the words
“may,” “could,” “will,” “estimate,” “intend,” “continue,” “believe,” “expect” or “anticipate” or other similar words. These forward-looking statements present
our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this report. Except for our ongoing obligation to disclose material information as required by the federal securities laws, we do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any
forward-looking statement.    Although we believe
that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of
operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and inherent risks and uncertainties. Some of the key factors impacting these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: 
 


 
•
 
 risks related to our history of operating losses, our substantial indebtedness or our ability to raise capital; 


 
•
 
 provisions of our debt instruments, including the indenture governing our $384 million aggregate principal amount of 8.750% senior secured first lien
notes due 2017, or the Notes, and the amended agreement governing the current credit facility that we entered into in July 2010, or our 2010 Credit Facility, which restrict certain aspects of the operation of our business;
  


 
•
 
 our continued compliance with all of our obligations, including financial covenants and ratios, under the indenture governing the Notes, or the
Indenture, and the amended agreement governing our 2010 Credit Facility, or the amended Credit Agreement;   


 
•
 
 cancellations or reductions of advertising due to the current economic environment or otherwise; 
 


 
•
 
 advertising rates remaining constant or decreasing; 
 


 
•
 
 the impact of rigorous competition in Spanish-language media and in the advertising industry generally; 
 


 
•
 
 the impact on our business, if any, as a result of changes in the way market share is measured by third parties; 
 


 
•
 
 our relationship with Univision Communications Inc., or Univision;   


 
•
 
 the extent to which we continue to generate revenue under retransmission consent agreements; 
 


 
•
 
 subject to restrictions contained in the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement, the overall success of our acquisition strategy, which
historically has included developing media clusters in key U.S. Hispanic markets, and the integration of any acquired assets with our existing business; 
 


 
•
 
 industry-wide market factors and regulatory and other developments affecting our operations; 
 


 
•
 
 continued uncertainty in the current economic environment; 
 


 
•
 
 the impact of previous and any future impairment of our assets; 
 


 
•
 
 risks related to changes in accounting interpretations; and 
 


 
•
 
 the impact, including additional costs, of mandates and other obligations that may be imposed upon us as a result of the recent passage of new federal
healthcare laws.    For a detailed
description of these and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement, please see “Risk Factors,” beginning at page 26 below. 
  1 


Table of Contents
ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
  The discussion of our business is as of the date of
filing this report, unless otherwise indicated.   
Overview   
Introduction   
Entravision Communications Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries, or Entravision, is a diversified Spanish-language media company
utilizing a combination of television and radio operations to reach Hispanic consumers across the United States, as well as the border markets of Mexico. We own and/or operate 53 primary television stations located primarily in California, Colorado,
Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas and Washington, D.C. Entravision is the largest affiliate group of both the top-ranked Univision television network and Univision’s TeleFutura network, with television stations in
19 of the nation’s top 50 U.S. Hispanic markets. Univision’s primary network is the most watched television network (English- or Spanish-language) among U.S. Hispanic households. Univision is a key source of programming for our television
broadcasting business and we consider it to be a valuable strategic partner of ours. For a more complete discussion of our relationship with Univision, please see “Our Relationship with Univision” and “Television—Television
Programming” below and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview”; and for a discussion of various risks related to our relationship with Univision, please see “Risk
Factors.”    With the purchase of Univision in
2007 by a private equity consortium, we believe that we are now the largest independent public media company focused principally on the U.S. Hispanic audience. We own and operate one of the largest groups of primarily Spanish-language radio stations
in the United States. We own and operate 48 radio stations in 19 U.S. markets. Our radio stations consist of 37 FM and 11 AM stations located in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Nevada, New Mexico and Texas. 
  We generate revenue primarily from sales of national and
local advertising time on television and radio stations, and from retransmission consent agreements. Advertising rates are, in large part, based on each medium’s ability to attract audiences in demographic groups targeted by advertisers. We
recognize advertising revenue when commercials are broadcast. We recognize retransmission consent revenue when it is accrued pursuant to the agreements we have entered into with respect to such revenue. We do not obtain long-term commitments from
our advertisers and, consequently, they may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalties. We pay commissions to agencies for local, regional and national advertising. For contracts directly with agencies, we record net revenue from these
agencies. Seasonal revenue fluctuations are common in the broadcasting industry and are due primarily to variations in advertising expenditures by both local and national advertisers. In addition, advertising revenue is generally higher during
even-numbered years resulting from political advertising and every four years resulting from advertising aired during the World Cup (2010 and 2014).   
We also generate revenue from retransmission consent agreements that are entered into with Multichannel Video Programming Distributors, or
MVPDs. We refer to such revenue as retransmission consent revenue, which represents payments from MVPDs for access to our television station signals so that they may rebroadcast our signals and charge their subscribers for this programming. We
recognize retransmission consent revenue when it is accrued pursuant to the agreements we have entered into with respect to such revenue.   
Our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $194.4 million. Of that amount, revenue generated by our
television segment accounted for approximately 68% and revenue generated by our radio segment accounted for approximately 32%.   
Our primary expenses are employee compensation, including commissions paid to our sales staff and amounts paid to our national
representative firms, as well as expenses for marketing, promotion and selling, technical, local programming, engineering, and general and administrative. Our local programming costs for television consist primarily of costs related to producing a
local newscast in most of our markets. 
  2 


Table of Contents
Our principal executive offices are located at 2425 Olympic Boulevard, Suite 6000 West,
Santa Monica, California 90404, and our telephone number is (310) 447-3870. Our corporate website is www.entravision.com.   
We were organized as a Delaware limited liability company in January 1996 to combine the operations of our predecessor entities. On
August 2, 2000, we completed a reorganization from a limited liability company to a Delaware corporation. On August 2, 2000, we also completed an initial public offering of our Class A common stock, which is listed on The New York
Stock Exchange under the trading symbol “EVC.”    The
Hispanic Market Opportunity in the United States    Our media assets target densely-populated and fast-growing Hispanic markets in the United States. We operate media properties in 14 of the 20 highest-density U.S. Hispanic markets. In addition, among the
top 25 U.S. Hispanic markets, we operate media properties in 14 of the 20 fastest-growing markets. Despite the current uncertain economic environment, we believe that targeting the U.S. Hispanic market will translate into revenue growth in the
future for the following reasons:   


 
•
 
 U.S. Hispanic Population Growth. Our audience consists primarily of Hispanics, one of the fastest-growing segments of the U.S.
population and, by current U.S. Census Bureau estimates, now the largest minority group in the United States. Over 50 million Hispanics live in the United States, accounting for over 16% of the total U.S. population. The overall Hispanic
population is growing at over 8 times the rate of the non-Hispanic population and is expected to grow to 85 million, or approximately 23% of the total U.S. population, by 2030. Approximately 68% of the total future growth in the U.S. population
through 2030 is expected to come from the Hispanic community.   


 
•
 
 Spanish-Language Use. Approximately 78% of Hispanics age five and over in the United States speak some Spanish at home. The number
of U.S. Hispanics that speak some Spanish at home is expected to grow from 34.3 million in 2010 to 54.8 million in 2029.   


 
•
 
 Increasing U.S. Hispanic Buying Power. The U.S. Hispanic population is estimated to have accounted for total consumer expenditures of over $806
billion in 2010, an increase of 21% since 2005. Hispanics are expected to account for over $1 trillion in consumer expenditures by 2015, and by 2025 Hispanics are expected to account for approximately $2 trillion in consumer expenditures, or 14% of
total U.S. consumer spending. Hispanic buying power is expected to grow at nearly three times the rate of the Hispanic population growth by 2025. 
 


 
•
 
 Attractive Profile of U.S. Hispanic Consumers. We believe that the demographic profile of the U.S. Hispanic audience makes it attractive to
advertisers. We believe that the larger average size and younger average age of Hispanic households (averaging 3.4 persons and 28.4 years of age as compared to the U.S. non-Hispanic averages of 2.4 persons and 40.5 years of age) lead Hispanics to
spend more per household on many categories of goods and services. Although the average U.S. Hispanic household has less disposable income than the average U.S. household, the average U.S. Hispanic household spends 7% more per year than the average
U.S. non-Hispanic household on food at home, 80% more on children’s clothing, 48% more on footwear, 29% more on laundry and household cleaning products and 23% more on mobile telephones. We expect Hispanics to continue to account for a
disproportionate share of growth in spending nationwide in many important consumer categories as the U.S. Hispanic population and its disposable income continue to grow.   


 
•
 
 Spanish-Language Advertising. Over $5.4 billion of total advertising expenditures in the United States were placed in Spanish-language media in
2009, the most recent year for which we have such data, of which approximately 89% was placed in Spanish-language television and radio advertising. 
  Business Strategy 
  We seek to increase our revenue through the following
strategies:    Effectively Use Our Networks and
Media Brands. We are the largest affiliate group of both the top-ranked Univision television network and Univision’s TeleFutura network. According to Univision, its primary network 
  3 


Table of Contents

posted the highest year-to-year primetime audience increases among adults 18-49 years of age during the 2010-2011 broadcast season, while the English-language broadcast networks reported audience
declines. Univision’s primary network, together with its TeleFutura Network, represented approximately a 73% share of the U.S. Spanish-language network television prime time audience of adults 18-49 years of age as of November 2011. Univision
makes its networks’ Spanish-language programming available to our television stations 24 hours a day, including a prime time schedule on its primary network of substantially all first-run programming throughout the year. 
  We believe that the breadth and diversity of Univision’s
programming, combined with our local news and community-oriented segments, provide us with an advantage over other Spanish-language and English-language broadcasters in reaching U.S. Hispanic viewers. Our local content is designed to brand each of
our stations as the best source for relevant community information that accurately reflects local interests and needs.   
We operate our radio network using four formats designed to appeal to different listener tastes. We format the programming of our network
and radio stations in an effort to capture a substantial share of the U.S. Hispanic audience in each of our radio markets. In markets where competing stations already offer programming similar to our network formats, or where we otherwise identify
an available niche in the marketplace, we run alternative programming that we believe will appeal to local listeners.   
Invest in Media Research and Sales. We believe that continued use of industry-accepted ratings and surveys will allow us further to
increase our advertising rates. We use standard industry ratings and surveys from third parties, including Nielsen Media Research and Arbitron to provide a more accurate measure of consumers. We believe that our focused research and sales efforts
will enable us to continue to achieve significant revenue and cash flow growth.    Continue to Benefit from Strong Management. We believe that we have one of the most experienced management teams in the industry. Walter Ulloa, our co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Philip Wilkinson, our co-founder, President and Chief Operating Officer and Jeffery Liberman, the President of our Radio Division, have an average of more than 30 years of media experience. We intend to continue to build and retain our key
management personnel and to capitalize on their knowledge and experience in the Spanish-language markets.   
Emphasize Local Content, Programming and Community Involvement. We believe that local content and service to the community in each
of our markets is an important part of building our brand identity within those markets. By combining our local news, local content and quality network programming, we believe that we have a significant competitive advantage. We also believe that
our active community involvement, including station remote broadcasting appearances at client events, concerts and tie-ins to major events, helps to build station awareness and identity as well as viewer and listener loyalty. 
  Take Advantage of Market Cross-Selling and
Cross-Promotion. We believe that our uniquely diversified media asset portfolio provides us with a competitive advantage in targeting the U.S. Hispanic consumer. In many of our markets, we offer advertisers the ability to reach potential
customers through a combination of television and radio. Currently, we operate some combination of television and radio in 11 markets. Where possible, we also combine our television and radio operations to create synergies and achieve cost savings.
   Target Other Attractive U.S. Hispanic Markets
and Fill-In Acquisitions. We believe that our knowledge of, and experience with, the U.S. Hispanic marketplace will enable us to identify acquisitions in the television and radio markets. Since our inception, we have used our management
expertise, programming, local involvement and brand identity to improve our acquired media properties. Please see “Acquisition and Disposition Strategies” below. However, we are currently subject to certain limitations on acquisitions
under the terms of the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” below. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Acquisition and Disposition Strategies    Historically, our acquisition strategy has been focused on increasing our presence in those markets in which we
already compete, as well as expanding our operations into U.S. Hispanic markets where we do not own properties. We have targeted fast-growing and high-density U.S. Hispanic markets. These have included many markets in the southwestern United States,
including Texas, California and various other markets along the United States/Mexican border. In addition, we have pursued other acquisition opportunities in key strategic markets, or those which otherwise supported our long-term growth plans.
   One of our goals has been to create and grow
media “clusters” within these target markets, featuring both Univision and TeleFutura television stations, together with a strong radio presence. We believe that these clusters provide unique cross-selling and cross-promotional
opportunities, making Entravision an attractive option for advertisers wishing to reach the U.S. Hispanic consumer. Accordingly, in addition to targeting stations in U.S. Hispanic markets where we do not own properties, we have focused on potential
acquisitions of additional stations in our existing markets, particularly radio stations in those markets where we currently have only television stations.   
We are subject to certain limitations on acquisitions under the terms of the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement. We cannot at this
time determine the effect that these limitations will have on our acquisition strategy or our overall business. Please see “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” below.    In addition, we periodically review our portfolio of media properties and, from time to time, seek to divest non-core assets in markets where we do not see the opportunity to grow to scale and build out
clusters. We are subject to certain limitations on divestitures under the terms of the amended Credit Agreement. We cannot at this time determine the effect that these limitations will have on our disposition strategy or our overall business. Please
see “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 
  We have a history of net losses that may impact, among other
things, our ability to implement our growth strategies. We had net losses of approximately $8.2 million, $18.1 million and $50.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  Our Relationship with Univision 
  Substantially all of our television stations are Univision-
or TeleFutura-affiliated television stations. Our network affiliation agreements, as amended, with Univision provide certain of our owned stations the exclusive right to broadcast Univision’s primary network and TeleFutura network programming
in their respective markets. These long-term affiliation agreements each expire in 2021, and can be renewed for multiple, successive two-year terms at Univision’s option, subject to our consent. Under the network affiliation agreements, we
generally retain the right to sell approximately six minutes per hour of the available advertising time on Univision’s primary network, and approximately four and a half minutes per hour of the available advertising time on the TeleFutura
network. Those allocations are subject to adjustment from time to time by Univision.    Under the network affiliation agreements, Univision acts as our exclusive sales representative for the sale of national advertising on our Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliate television stations, and we
pay certain sales representation fees to Univision relating to sales of all advertising for broadcast on our Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliate television stations. 
  We also generate revenue under two marketing and sales
agreements with Univision, which give us the right through 2021 to manage the marketing and sales operations of Univision-owned TeleFutura and Univision affiliates in six markets—Albuquerque, Boston, Denver, Orlando, Tampa and Washington, D.C.

  5 


Table of Contents
In August 2008, we entered into a proxy agreement with Univision pursuant to which we
granted to Univision the right to negotiate the terms of retransmission consent agreements for our Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals for a term of six years, expiring in December 2014. Among other things, the proxy
agreement provides terms relating to compensation to be paid to us by Univision with respect to retransmission consent agreements entered into with MVPDs. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, retransmission consent revenue
accounted for approximately $17.1 million and $13.7 million, respectively.    Univision currently owns approximately 10% of our common stock on a fully-converted basis. As of December 31, 2005, Univision owned approximately 30% of our common stock on a fully-converted basis.
In connection with its merger with Hispanic Broadcasting Corporation in September 2003, Univision entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, pursuant to which Univision agreed, among other things, to ensure that its
percentage ownership of our company would not exceed 10% by March 26, 2009. In January 2006, we sold the assets of radio stations KBRG-FM and KLOK-AM, serving the San Francisco/San Jose, California market, to Univision for $90 million.
Univision paid the full amount of the purchase price in the form of approximately 12.6 million shares of our Class U common stock held by Univision. Subsequently, in 2006, we repurchased 7.2 million shares of our Class U common stock held
by Univision for $52.5 million. In February 2008, we repurchased 1.5 million shares of Class U common stock held by Univision for $10.4 million. In May 2009, we repurchased an additional 0.9 million shares of Class A common stock held
by Univision for $0.5 million.    The Company’s
Class U common stock held by Univision has limited voting rights and does not include the right to elect directors. However, as the holder of all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class U common stock, Univision currently has the right to
approve any merger, consolidation or other business combination involving the Company, any dissolution of the Company and any assignment of the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licenses for any of the Company’s Univision-affiliated
television stations. Each share of Class U common stock is automatically convertible into one share of the Company’s Class A common stock (subject to adjustment for stock splits, dividends or combinations) in connection with any transfer
to a third party that is not an affiliate of Univision.    Television   
Overview   
We own and/or operate Univision-affiliated television stations in 24 markets, including 20 of the top 50 Hispanic markets in the United
States. Our television operations are the largest affiliate group of the Univision networks. Univision’s primary network is the leading Spanish-language network in the United States, reaching approximately 95% of all U.S. Hispanic households.
Univision’s primary network is the most watched television network (English- or Spanish-language) among U.S. Hispanic households. Univision’s primary network, together with its TeleFutura Network, represent approximately a 73% share of the
U.S. Spanish-language network television prime time audience of adults 18-49 years of age as of November 2011. We operate both Univision and TeleFutura affiliates in 20 of our 24 television markets. Univision’s networks make their
Spanish-language programming available to our Univision-affiliated stations 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Univision’s prime time schedule on its primary network consists of substantially all first-run programming throughout the year.
   Television Programming 
  Univision Primary Network Programming. Univision
directs its programming primarily toward a young, family-oriented audience. It begins daily with Despierta America and another talk show, Monday through Friday, followed by drama shows and novelas. In the late afternoon and early evening,
Univision offers an entertainment magazine, a news magazine and national news, in addition to local news produced by our television stations. During prime time, Univision airs novelas, variety shows, talk shows, news magazines and reality shows, as
well as specials. Prime time is followed by late news. Overnight programming consists primarily of repeats of programming aired previously on the network. Weekend daytime programming begins with children’s programming, and is generally followed
by sports, reality, comedy shows and movies. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Approximately eight to ten hours of programming per weekday, including a substantial portion
of weekday prime time, are currently programmed with novelas supplied primarily by Grupo Televisa, S.A. de C.V., or Televisa, and Corporacion Venezolana de Television, C.A., or Venevision. Although novelas have been compared to daytime soap operas
on ABC, NBC or CBS, the differences are significant. Novelas, originally developed as serialized books, have a beginning, middle and end, generally run five days per week and conclude four to eight months after they begin. Novelas also have a much
broader audience appeal than soap operas, delivering audiences that contain large numbers of men, children and teens, in addition to women.   
TeleFutura Network Programming. Univision’s other 24-hour general-interest Spanish-language broadcast network, TeleFutura, is
programmed to meet the diverse preferences of the multi-faceted U.S. Hispanic community. TeleFutura’s programming includes sports (including boxing, soccer and a nightly wrap-up at 11 p.m. similar to ESPN’s programming), movies (including
a mix of English-language movies translated into Spanish) and novelas not run on Univision’s primary network, as well as reruns of popular novelas broadcast on Univision’s primary network. 
  Entravision Local Programming. We believe that our
local news brands our stations in our television markets. We shape our local news to relate to and inform our audiences. In ten of our television markets, our early local news is ranked first or second among competing local newscasts regardless of
language in its designated time slot among adults 18-34 years of age. We have made substantial investments in people and equipment in order to provide our local communities with quality newscasts. Our local newscasts have won numerous awards,
and we strive to be the most important community voice in each of our local markets. In several of our markets, we believe that our local news is the only significant source of Spanish-language daily news for the Hispanic community. 
  Network Affiliation Agreements. Substantially all of
our television stations are Univision- or TeleFutura-affiliated television stations. Our network affiliation agreements with Univision provide certain of our owned stations the exclusive right to broadcast Univision’s primary network and
TeleFutura network programming in their respective markets. These long-term affiliation agreements each expire in 2021, and can be renewed for multiple, successive two-year terms at Univision’s option, subject to our consent. Under the
affiliation agreements, we generally retain the right to sell approximately six minutes per hour of the available advertising time on Univision’s primary network, and approximately four and a half minutes per hour of the available advertising
time on the TeleFutura network. Those allocations are subject to adjustment from time to time by Univision.   
XHAS-TV broadcasts Telemundo Network Group LLC, or Telemundo, network programming serving the Tijuana/San Diego market pursuant to a
network affiliation agreement. Our current network affiliation agreement with Telemundo gives us the right to provide Telemundo network programming on XHAS-TV for a five-year period expiring in July 2012. The affiliation agreement grants Telemundo a
right of first refusal in the event a third party makes an offer to purchase XHAS-TV, and a right to purchase XHAS-TV upon a change of control of Entravision.   
Our network affiliation agreement with Fox Broadcasting Company, or Fox, gives us the right to broadcast Fox network programming on
KSFE-LD, serving the Matamoros/Harlingen-Weslaco-Brownsville-McAllen market, and KXOF-CA, serving the Laredo market, through December 31, 2014. The network affiliation agreement may be extended for successive one-year terms at Fox’s
option, subject to our consent.    We also have an
agreement with Master Distribution Service, Inc., an affiliate of Fox, which gives us the right to provide ten hours per week of MyNetworkTV programming on KSFE-LD, KXOF-CA and XDTV, serving the Tecate/San Diego market. This agreement expires in
October 2014 and may be extended for successive one-year periods.    Our network affiliation agreement with The CW Network, LLC, or CW, gives us the right to broadcast CW network programming on KSFE-LP, KTIZ-LP, and KNVO-DT serving the Harlingen-Weslaco-Brownsville-McAllen
market, and KRNS-CA and KREN-DT, serving the Reno, Nevada market, through 2013. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Our network affiliation agreement with LATV Networks, LLC, or LATV, gives us the right to
broadcast LATV network programming on the digital streams of certain of our television stations. Either party may terminate the affiliation with respect to a given station 30 months after the launch of such station. For a more complete discussion of
this agreement, please see Note 12 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    We cannot guarantee that any of our current network affiliation agreements will be renewed beyond their respective expiration dates under their current terms, under other terms favorable to us, or at all.
   Marketing Agreements. Our marketing and
sales agreement with Univision gives us the right through 2021 to manage the marketing and sales operations of Univision-owned TeleFutura and Univision affiliates in six markets—Albuquerque, Boston, Denver, Orlando, Tampa and Washington, D.C.
   Long-Term Time Brokerage Agreements. We
operate each of XDTV-TV, serving the Tecate/San Diego market; XHAS-TV, serving the Tijuana/San Diego market; and XHRIO-TV, serving the Matamoros/ Harlingen-Weslaco-Brownsville-McAllen market, under long-term time brokerage agreements. Under those
agreements, in combination with certain of our Mexican affiliates and subsidiaries, we provide the programming and related services available on these stations, but the stations retain absolute control of the content and other broadcast issues.
These long-term time brokerage agreements expire in 2030, 2035 and 2038, respectively, and each provides for automatic, perpetual 30-year renewals unless both parties consent to termination. Each of these agreements provides for substantial
financial penalties should the other party attempt to terminate prior to its expiration without our consent, and they do not limit the availability of specific performance as a remedy for any such attempted early termination. 
  8 


Table of Contents
Our Television Station Portfolio    The following table lists information concerning each of our owned and/or operated television stations and its
respective market:   
























Market
 
Market Rank(by HispanicHouseholds)
 
 
TotalHouseholds
 
 
HispanicHouseholds
 
 
%HispanicHouseholds
 
 
Call Letters
  
PrincipalProgrammingStream


 Harlingen-Weslaco-Brownsville- McAllen,
Texas
 
 
10
  
 
 
361,820
  
 
 
308,050
  
 
 
85.1
% 
 
 KNVO-TV KTFV-CD (1) KFXV-LD KCWT-CA (1)
  
 Univision
TeleFutura Fox
CW

 Albuquerque- Santa Fe, New
Mexico
 
 
12
  
 
 
710,050
  
 
 
266,650
  
 
 
37.6
% 
 
 KLUZ-TV KTFQ-TV (2) KTFA-LP
  
 Univision
TeleFutura Home Shopping
Network

 San Diego, California
 
 
13
  
 
 
1,077,600
  
 
 
254,650
  
 
 
23.6
% 
 
 KBNT-LD KTCD-CA (1) KHAX-LP KDTF-LP
  
 Univision
Univision Univision
TeleFutura

 El Paso, Texas
 
 
15
  
 
 
366,570
  
 
 
243,720
  
 
 
72.4
% 
 
 KINT-TV KTFN-TV
  
 Univision
TeleFutura

 Denver-Boulder, Colorado
 
 
16
  
 
 
1,548,570
  
 
 
237,280
  
 
 
15.3
% 
 
 KCEC-TV KDVT-LP KTFD-TV (2)
  
 Univision
Univision TeleFutura

 Orlando-Daytona Beach-Melbourne,
Florida
 
 
18
  
 
 
1,465,460
  
 
 
255,860
  
 
 
15.4
% 
 
 WVEN-TV W47DA WVCI-LP WOTF-TV (2)
  
 Univision
Univision Univision
TeleFutura

 Washington, D.C. (Hagerstown,
Maryland)
 
 
19
  
 
 
2,360,180
  
 
 
216,470
  
 
 
9.2
% 
 
 WFDC-TV (2) WMDO-CA (1) WMDO-LD WJAL-TV
  
 Univision
TeleFutura TeleFutura
English-Language

 Tampa-St. Petersburg (Sarasota),
Florida
 
 
20
  
 
 
1,788,240
  
 
 
213,590
  
 
 
11.9
% 
 
 WVEA-TV WFTT-TV (2) WVEA-LP
  
 Univision
TeleFutura Jewelry TV

 Las Vegas, Nevada
 
 
23
  
 
 
737,300
  
 
 
157,390
  
 
 
21.3
% 
 
 KINC-TV KNTL-LP KWWB-LP KELV-LD
  
 Univision
Univision Univision
TeleFutura

 Boston, Massachusetts
 
 
24
  
 
 
2,379,690
  
 
 
153,020
  
 
 
6.4
% 
 
 WUNI-TV WUTF-TV (2)
  
 Univision
TeleFutura

 Corpus Christi, Texas
 
 
27
  
 
 
203,550
  
 
 
111,350
  
 
 
54.7
% 
 
KORO-TV KCRP-CA (1)
  
 Univision
TeleFutura

 Hartford-New Haven,
Connecticut
 
 
29
  
 
 
1,006,280
  
 
 
97,170
  
 
 
9.7
% 
 
WUVN-TV WUTH-CA (1)
  
 Univision
TeleFutura

 Monterey-Salinas-Santa Cruz,
California
 
 
34
  
 
 
223,620
  
 
 
74,600
  
 
 
33.4
% 
 
KSMS-TV KDJT-CA (1)
  
 Univision
TeleFutura

 Laredo, Texas
 
 
35
  
 
 
72,060
  
 
 
68,210
  
 
 
94.7
% 
 
 KLDO-TV KETF-CD KXOF-CA (1)
  
 Univision
TeleFutura Fox

 Yuma, Arizona-El Centro,
California
 
 
36
  
 
 
112,850
  
 
 
67,930
  
 
 
60.2
% 
 
 KVYE-TV KAJB-TV (2)
  
 Univision
TeleFutura

 Palm Springs, California
 
 
39
  
 
 
158,440
  
 
 
63,960
  
 
 
40.4
% 
 
 KVER-CA (1) KVES-LD KEVC-CA (1)
  
 Univision
Univision TeleFutura

 Colorado Springs-Pueblo,
Colorado
 
 
42
  
 
 
343,160
  
 
 
59,300
  
 
 
17.3
% 
 
 KVSN-TV KGHB-CD (1)
  
Univision TeleFutura

 Odessa-Midland, Texas
 
 
43
  
 
 
146,040
  
 
 
58,840
  
 
 
40.3
% 
 
KUPB-TV
  
Univision

 Santa Barbara-Santa Maria- San Luis
Obispo, California
 
 
45
  
 
 
280,830
  
 
 
55,850
  
 
 
24.2
% 
 
 KPMR-TV K17GD (1) K28FK (1) K10OG (1) KTSB-CA (1)
  
 Univision
Univision Univision
TeleFutura
TeleFutura
  9 


Table of Contents
























Market
 
Market Rank(by HispanicHouseholds)
 
 
TotalHouseholds
 
 
HispanicHouseholds
 
 
%HispanicHouseholds
 
 
Call Letters, Channel
  
Programming

 Lubbock, Texas
 
 
51
  
 
 
160,160
  
 
 
49,840
  
 
 
31.1
% 
 
KBZO-LP
  
Univision

 Wichita-Hutchinson,
Kansas
 
 
53
  
 
 
454,590
  
 
 
43,920
  
 
 
9.7
% 
 
KDCU-DT (3)
  
Univision

 Reno, Nevada
 
 
60
  
 
 
271,020
  
 
 
38,770
  
 
 
14.3
% 
 
 KREN-TV KNVV-LP KRNS-CA
  
 Univision
TeleFutura CW

 Springfield-Holyoke,
Massachusetts
 
 
65
  
 
 
257,080
  
 
 
31,980
  
 
 
12.4
% 
 
WHTX-LP
  
Univision

 San Angelo, Texas
 
 
91
  
 
 
55,570
  
 
 
16,610
  
 
 
29.9
% 
 
 KEUS-LP KANG-CA (1)
  
 Univision
TeleFutura

 Tecate, Baja California, Mexico (San
Diego)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
XDTV-TV (4)
  
MyNetworkTV

 Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico (San
Diego)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
XHAS-TV (4)
  
Telemundo

 Matamoros, Tamaulipas, Mexico
(Harlingen-Weslaco-Brownsville-McAllen)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
XHRIO-TV (4)
  
Fox
 Source: Nielsen Media Research 2012 universe estimates. 
 


(1)
“CA” or “CD” in call letters indicates station is under Class A television service. Certain stations without this designation are also
Class A stations. 


(2)
We provide the sales and marketing function of this station under a marketing and sales arrangement. 


(3)
We share operating services with another broadcast station in the same market under a shared services arrangement. 


(4)
We hold a minority, limited voting interest (neutral investment) in the entity that directly or indirectly holds the broadcast license for this station. Through that
entity, we provide the programming and related services available on this station under a time brokerage arrangement. The station retains control of the contents and other broadcast issues. 
  Digital Television Technology. As we develop our
digital television transmission technology for our television stations, we will operate in an environment where we can decide the resolution and number of broadcast streams we provide in our over-the-air transmissions. Depending upon how high a
resolution level with which we elect to transmit our programming, we are able to transmit over-the-air broadcast streams containing a total of from two to six program streams using the bandwidth authorized to each digital station. The
transmission of such multiple programming streams is referred to as multicasting. We currently are multicasting network programming streams, primarily TeleFutura network programming and LATV network programming streams, at a number of our stations,
along with our primary program streams. In addition, we are multicasting CW and Fox network programming in certain of our markets. We are evaluating these multicasting operations as well as the amount of bandwidth we must allocate to our
primary program streams and may consider either expanding or limiting our multicasting operations, or keeping these multicasting operations substantially as at present. 
  Other Platforms. Our television stations typically
have local websites, social media and other digital and interactive media platforms that provide users with news and information as well as a variety of other products and services.    Television Advertising   
Approximately 86% of the revenue generated from our television operations is derived from local and national advertising. 
  Local. Local advertising revenue is generated
predominantly from advertising time sold to an advertiser or its agency that is placed from within a station’s market or directly with a station’s sales staff. Local advertising sales include sales to advertisers that are local businesses
or advertising agencies, and regional and national businesses or advertising agencies, which place orders from within a station’s market or directly with a station’s sales staff. We employ our own local sales force that is responsible for
soliciting local advertising sales directly from advertisers and their agencies. In 2011, local advertising accounted for approximately 46% of our total television revenue. 
  10 


Table of Contents
National. National advertising revenue generally represents revenue from advertising
time sold to an advertiser or its agency that is placed from outside a station’s market. We typically engage national sales representative firms to work with our station sales managers and solicit national advertising sales, and we pay certain
sales representation fees to these firms relating to national advertising sales. Under our network affiliation agreements with Univision, Univision acts as our sales representative for the sale of national advertising on our Univision and TeleFutura
affiliate television stations, and advertisers which have purchased national advertising on these affiliate stations include Ford Motor Company, Chrysler Group LLC, McDonald’s Corporation, Toyota Motor Corporation, AT&T Inc., General Motors
Company, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. and Cricket Communications, Inc. We also added significant new national advertising accounts in 2011, including Guerra and Moore, Ltd. LLP, Advance Auto Parts, Kia Motors Corporation, Regis University and United
States Department of Agriculture, among others. Telemundo acts as our national sales representative for the sale of national advertising on our Telemundo affiliate station, and Petry Television acts as our national sales representative for the sale
of national advertising on our stations that broadcast Fox, CW and MyNetworkTV network programming. In 2011, national advertising accounted for approximately 40% of our total television revenue. 
  Retransmission Consent Revenue 
  We also generate revenue from retransmission consent
agreements that are entered into with cable, satellite and internet-based television service providers. We refer to such revenue as retransmission consent revenue, which represents payments from these entities for access to our television station
signals so that they may rebroadcast our signals and charge their subscribers for this programming.   In August 2008, we entered into a proxy agreement with Univision pursuant to which we granted to Univision the right to negotiate the terms of retransmission consent agreements for our Univision- and
TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals for a term of six years. Among other things, the proxy agreement provides terms relating to compensation to be paid to us by Univision with respect to retransmission consent agreements entered into
with MVPDs. The agreement also provides terms relating to compensation to be paid to us with respect to agreements that are entered into for the carriage of our Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals. 
  In 2011, retransmission consent revenue accounted for
approximately 13% of our total television revenue. We anticipate that retransmission consent revenue will continue to be a growing source of net revenues.   
Network Revenue   
Network compensation represents compensation for broadcasting network programming. In 2011, network compensation accounted for
approximately 1% of our total television revenue.    Television
Marketing/Audience Research    We derive our
revenue primarily from selling advertising time. The relative advertising rates charged by competing stations within a market depend primarily on the following factors: 
 


 
•
 
 the station’s ratings (households or people viewing its programs as a percentage of total television households or people in the viewing area);
  


 
•
 
 audience share (households or people viewing its programs as a percentage of households or people actually watching television at a specific time);
  


 
•
 
 the demographic qualities of a program’s viewers (primarily age and gender); 
 


 
•
 
 the demand for available air time;   


 
•
 
 the time of day the advertising will run;   


 
•
 
 competitive conditions in the station’s market, including the availability of other advertising media; and 
 


 
•
 
 general economic conditions, including advertisers’ budgetary considerations. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Nielsen ratings provide advertisers with the industry-accepted measure of television
viewing. Nielsen offers a ratings service measuring all television audience viewing. In recent years, Nielsen has modified the methodology of its ratings service in an effort to more accurately measure U.S. Hispanic viewing by using language spoken
in the home as a control characteristic of its metered market sample. Nielsen has also added weighting by language as part of its local metered market methodology in many of our metered markets. Nielsen also continues to improve the methods by which
it electronically measures television viewing, and has expanded its Local People Meter service to several of our markets. We believe that this improvement will continue to result in ratings gains for us, allowing us to further increase our
advertising rates. We have made significant investments in experienced sales managers and account executives and have provided our sales professionals with research tools to continue to attract major advertisers. 
  Television Competition 
  We face intense competition in the broadcasting business. In
each local television market, we compete for viewers and revenue with other local television stations, which are typically the local affiliates of the four principal English-language television networks, NBC, ABC, CBS and Fox and, in certain cities,
the CW network. In certain markets (other than San Diego), we also compete with the local affiliates or owned and operated stations of Telemundo, the Spanish-language television network that was acquired by NBCUniversal in 2002, as well as TV
Azteca, the second-largest producer of Spanish-language programming in the world.    We also directly or indirectly compete for viewers and revenue with both English- and Spanish-language independent television stations, other video media, suppliers of cable television programs, direct
broadcast systems, newspapers, magazines, radio, applications for mobile media devices and other forms of entertainment and advertising. In addition, in certain markets we operate radio stations that indirectly compete for local and national
advertising revenue with our television business.   
We believe that our primary competitive advantages are the quality of the programming we receive through our affiliation with Univision
and the quality of our local news. According to Univision, its primary network is one of the top five networks in the United States regardless of language, and it is the most-watched Spanish-language network in the United States. In addition,
Univision’s primary network and the TeleFutura Network together have maintained superior audience ratings among all U.S. Hispanic households when compared to both Spanish-language and English-language broadcast networks. Similarly, our local
news achieves strong audience ratings. In ten of our television markets, our early local news is ranked first or second among competing local newscasts regardless of language in its designated time slot among adults 18-34 years of age.
   NBCUniversal-owned Telemundo is the
second-largest Spanish-language television network in the United States. As of December 31, 2011, Telemundo had total coverage reaching approximately 94% of all Hispanic households in its markets. 
  We also benefit from operating in different media: television
and radio advertising. While we have not engaged in any significant cross-selling program, we do take advantage of opportunities for cross-promotion of our stations. 
  The quality and experience of our management team is a
significant strength of our company. However, our growth strategy may place significant demands on our management, working capital and financial resources. We may be unable to identify or complete acquisitions due to strong competition among buyers,
the high valuations of media properties and the need to raise additional financing and/or equity. Many of our competitors have more stations than we have, and may have greater resources than we do. While we compete for acquisitions effectively
within many markets and within a broad price range, our larger competitors nevertheless may price us out of certain acquisition opportunities. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Radio 
  Overview    We own and operate 48 radio stations (37 FM and 11 AM), 46 of which are located in the top 50 Hispanic markets
in the United States. Our radio stations broadcast into markets with an aggregate of approximately 19 million U. S. Hispanics, which is approximately 41% of the Hispanic population in the United States. Our radio operations combine network and
local programming with local time slots available for advertising, news, traffic, weather, promotions and community events. This strategy allows us to provide quality programming with significantly lower costs of operations than we could otherwise
deliver solely with independent programming.    Radio Programming
   Radio Network. Our radio network
broadcasts into 16 of the 19 markets that we serve. Our network allows advertisers with national product distribution to deliver a uniform advertising message to the growing Hispanic market around the country in an efficient manner and at a cost
that is generally lower than our English-language counterparts.    Although our network has a broad geographic reach, technology allows our stations to offer the necessary local feel and to be responsive to local clients and community needs. Designated time slots are
used for local advertising, news, traffic, weather, promotions and community events. The audience gets the benefit of a national radio sound along with local content. To further enhance this effect, our on-air personalities frequently travel to
participate in local promotional events. For example, in selected key markets our on-air personalities appear at special events and client locations. We promote these events as “remotes” to bond the national personalities to local
listeners. Furthermore, all of our stations can disconnect from the networks and operate independently in the case of a local emergency or a problem with our central MPLS transmission.    Radio Formats. Our radio network produces four music formats that are simultaneously distributed via
MPLS with a digital CD-quality sound to our stations. Each of these formats appeals to different listener preferences:   


 
•
 
 La Tricolor is a personality-driven format that includes “El Vacilón del Mandril” in nine markets, “Erazno y La
Chokolata” in the afternoon drive, Mexican regional music artist Jenni Rivera in midday on Wednesdays and Mexican country-style music that primarily targets male Hispanic listeners 18-49 years of age; 
 


 
•
 
 “José: Nunca Sabes Lo Que Va A Tocar” (“You never know what he’ll play”) features a mix of Spanish-language
adult contemporary and Mexican regional hits from the 1970s through the present, Alex Lucas in the mornings and play-by-play soccer coverage of the Mexican national team, including coverage of the 2014 World Cup, that targets Hispanic adults 25-54
years of age;   


 
•
 
 “Maria: Siempre Romantica” (“Maria: Always Romantic”) features a Spanish-language romantic ballads format targeting
primarily Hispanic women 18-49 years of age; and   


 
•
 
 “El Gato” is an upbeat and energetic Mexican regional format targeting primarily Hispanic adults 18-34 years of age. In El Paso the
format has a slightly different musical blend to reflect northern Mexican influences.   
In addition, in markets where competing stations already offer programming similar to our network formats, or where we otherwise identify
an available niche in the marketplace, we run alternative programming that we believe will appeal to local listeners, including the following:   


 
•
 
 In the Los Angeles market, we program “Super Estrella” – a music-driven, pop and alternative Spanish-rock format targeting
primarily Hispanic adults 18-34 years of age;   


 
•
 
 In the McAllen market, we program a Mexican country-style music format that targets primarily Hispanic males 18-49 years of age;

  13 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Also in the McAllen market, we program two English-language formats, a classic rock-oriented format that targets primarily males 18-49 years of age and
a hit-based adult contemporary format targeting primarily women 18-49 years of age;   


 
•
 
 In the Orlando market, we program “José 98.1” – a format that features a mix of Spanish-language adult contemporary and
tropical hits from the 1990s through the present targeting Hispanic adults 25-54 years of age;   


 
•
 
 In the Sacramento market, we offer two English-language formats, a rhythmic contemporary hit format targeting primarily adults 18-34 years of age and a
young country format targeting primarily adults 18-49 years of age; and   


 
•
 
 In the Phoenix and Albuquerque markets, we program “ESPN Deportes,” a Spanish-language sports talk format targeting primarily Hispanic
adults 18-54 years of age, that is provided to us by a third party pursuant to a network affiliation agreement. 
  14 


Table of Contents
Our Radio Station Portfolio 
  The following table lists information concerning each of our
owned and operated radio stations and its respective market:   
















Market
  
Market Rank(by HispanicHouseholds)
 
  
Station
  
Frequency
  
Format

 Los Angeles-San Diego-Ventura,
California
  
 
1
  
  
KLYY-FMKDLD-FMKDLE-FMKSSC-FMKSSD-FMKSSE-FM
  
97.5103.1103.1107.1107.1107.1
  
MHzMHzMHzMHzMHzMHz
  
 José
El Gato (1) El Gato (1)
Super Estrella (1) Super Estrella (1)
Super Estrella (1)

 Miami-Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood,
Florida
  
 
3
  
  
WLQY-AM
  
1320
  
kHz
  
Time Brokered (2)

 Houston-Galveston, Texas
  
 
4
  
  
KGOL-AM
  
1180
  
kHz
  
Time Brokered (2)

 Phoenix, Arizona
  
 
9
  
  
KLNZ-FMKDVA-FMKVVA-FMKBMB-AM
  
103.5106.9107.1710
  
MHzMHzMHzkHz
  
 La Tricolor
José (1) José (1)
ESPN Deportes (Spanish)

 Harlingen-Weslaco-Brownsville-McAllen,
Texas
  
 
10
  
  
KFRQ-FMKKPS-FMKNVO-FMKVLY-FM
  
94.599.5101.1107.9
  
MHzMHzMHzMHz
  
 Classic Rock (English)
Mexican Regional José
Adult Contemporary (English)


Sacramento, California  
  Stockton, California
  Modesto, California
  
 
11
  
  
KRCX-FMKNTY-FMKHHM-FMKXSE-FMKMIX-FMKCVR-AMKTSE-FMKCVR-FM
  
99.9101.9103.5104.3100.9157097.198.9
  
MHzMHzMHzMHzMHzkHzMHzMHz
  
 La Tricolor
Country (English) Contemporary Hit
(English) José La
Tricolor Maria (1)
José Maria (1)

 Albuquerque-Santa Fe, New
Mexico
  
 
12
  
  
KRZY-FMKRZY-AM
  
105.91450
  
MHzkHz
  
 José
ESPN Deportes (Spanish)

 El Paso, Texas
  
 
15
  
  
KOFX-FMKINT-FMKYSE-FMKSVE-AMKHRO-AM
  
92.393.994.716501150
  
MHzMHzMHzkHzkHz
  
 Oldies (English)
José El Gato
Maria Talk (English)


Denver-Boulder, Colorado  
Aspen, Colorado
  
 
16
  
  
KJMN-FMKXPK-FMKMXA-AMKPVW-FM
  
92.196.51090107.1
  
MHzMHzkHzMHz
  
 José
La Tricolor Maria
La Tricolor

 Orlando-Daytona Beach-Melbourne,
Florida
  
 
18
  
  
WNUE-FM
  
98.1
  
MHz
  
José

 Las Vegas, Nevada
  
 
23
  
  
KRRN-FMKQRT-FM
  
92.7105.1
  
MHzMHz
  
 El Gato
La Tricolor

 Monterey-Salinas-Santa Cruz,
California
  
 
34
  
  
KLOK-FMKSES-FMKMBX-AM
  
99.5107.1700
  
MHzMHzkHz
  
 La Tricolor
José Time Brokered
(2)

 Yuma, Arizona-El Centro,
California
  
 
36
  
  
KSEH-FMKMXX-FMKWST-AM
  
94.599.31430
  
MHzMHzkHz
  
 José
La Tricolor Time Brokered
(2)

 Palm Springs, California
  
 
39
  
  
KLOB-FM
  
94.7
  
MHz
  
José

 Lubbock, Texas
  
 
51
  
  
KAIQ-FMKBZO-AM
  
95.51460
  
MHzkHz
  
 La Tricolor
José

 Reno, Nevada
  
 
60
  
  
KRNV-FM
  
102.1
  
MHz
  
La Tricolor
 Market rank source: Nielsen Media Research 2012 estimates. 
 


(1)
Simulcast station. 


(2)
Operated pursuant to a time brokerage arrangement under which we grant to third parties the right to program the station. 
  Other Platforms. Our radio stations typically have
local websites, social media and other digital and interactive media platforms that provide users with news and information as well as a variety of other products and services. 
  15 


Table of Contents
Radio Advertising 
  Substantially all of the revenue generated from our radio
operations is derived from local and national advertising.    Local. Local advertising revenue is generated predominantly from advertising time sold to an advertiser or its agency that is placed from within a station’s market or directly with a
station’s sales staff, and also from a third-party network inventory agreement, digital and non-traditional revenue. Local advertising sales include sales to advertisers that are local businesses or advertising agencies, and regional and
national businesses or advertising agencies, which place orders from within a station’s market or directly with a station’s sales staff. We employ our own local sales force that is responsible for soliciting local advertising sales
directly from advertisers and their agencies. In 2011, local advertising revenue accounted for approximately 71% of our total radio revenue.   
National. National advertising revenue generally represents revenue from advertising time sold to an advertiser or its agency that
is placed from outside a station’s market. Lotus/Entravision Reps LLC, or LER, typically acts as our national sales representative to solicit national advertising sales on our Spanish-language radio stations. LER was originally a joint venture
that we entered into in August 2001 with Lotus Hispanic Reps Corp., and we acquired 100% of the ownership interest in LER in January 2011. In 2011, national advertising revenue accounted for approximately 29% of our total radio revenue. 
  Radio Marketing/Audience Research 
  We believe that radio is an efficient means for advertisers
to reach targeted demographic groups. Advertising rates charged by our radio stations are based primarily on the following factors:   


 
•
 
 the station’s ratings (people listening to its programs as a percentage of total people in the listening area); 
 


 
•
 
 audience share (people listening to its programs as a percentage of people actually listening to radio at a specific time);
  


 
•
 
 the demographic qualities of a program’s listeners (primarily age and gender); 
 


 
•
 
 the demand for available air time;   


 
•
 
 the time of day that the advertising runs;   


 
•
 
 competitive conditions in the station’s market, including the availability of other advertising media; and 
 


 
•
 
 general economic conditions, including advertisers’ budgetary considerations. 
  Arbitron provides advertisers with the industry-accepted
measure of listening audience classified by demographic segment and time of day that the listeners spend on particular radio stations. Radio advertising rates generally are highest during the hours of 6:00 A.M. and 7:00 P.M. These hours are
considered the peak times for radio audience listening.    Historically, advertising rates for Spanish-language radio stations have been lower than those for English-language stations with similar audience levels. We believe, over time, possibilities exist to
narrow the disparities that have historically existed between Spanish-language and English-language advertising rates as new and existing advertisers recognize the growing desirability of targeting the Hispanic population in the United States. We
also believe that having multiple stations in a market enables us to provide listeners with alternatives, to secure a higher overall percentage of a market’s available advertising dollars and to obtain greater percentages of individual
customers’ advertising budgets.    Each station
broadcasts an optimal number of advertisements each hour, depending upon its format, in order to maximize the station’s revenue without jeopardizing its audience listenership. Our non-network stations have

  16 


Table of Contents

up to 14 minutes per hour for commercial inventory and local content. Our network stations have up to one additional minute of commercial inventory per hour. The pricing is based on a rate card
and negotiations subject to the supply and demand for the inventory in each particular market and the network.    Radio Competition    Radio broadcasting is a highly competitive business. The financial success of each of our radio stations and markets depends in large part on our audience ratings, our ability to increase our market share
of overall radio advertising revenue and the economic health of the market. In addition, our advertising revenue depends upon the desire of advertisers to reach our audience demographic. Each of our radio stations competes for audience share and
advertising revenue directly with both Spanish-language and English-language radio stations in its market, and with other media, such as newspapers, broadcast and cable television, magazines, outdoor advertising, satellite-delivered radio services,
applications for mobile media devices and direct mail advertising. In addition, in certain markets we operate television stations that indirectly compete for local and national advertising revenue with our radio business. Our primary competitors in
our markets in Spanish-language radio are Univision, Clear Channel Communications Inc. and Spanish Broadcasting System, Inc. These and many of the other companies with which we compete are large national or regional companies that have significantly
greater resources and longer operating histories than we do.    Factors that are material to our competitive position include management experience, a station’s rank in its market, signal strength and audience demographics. If a competing station within a market
converts to a format similar to that of one of our stations, or if one of our competitors upgrades its stations, we could suffer a reduction in ratings and advertising revenue in that market. The audience ratings and advertising revenue of our
individual stations are subject to fluctuation and any adverse change in certain of our key radio markets could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 
  The radio industry is subject to competition from new media
technologies that are being developed or introduced, such as:   


 
•
 
 audio programming by cable television systems, broadcast satellite-delivered audio services, cellular telephones and smart telephones, including
easy-to-use mobile applications, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats and playback mechanisms;   


 
•
 
 satellite-delivered digital audio services with CD-quality sound—with both commercial-free and lower commercial load channels—which have
expanded their subscriber base and recently have introduced dedicated Spanish-language channels (for example, Sirius XM Radio now provides eight Spanish-language channels, all commercial-free); and 
 


 
•
 
 In-Band On-Channel™ digital radio, which could provide multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied
by traditional FM radio services.   
While ultimately we believe that none of these new technologies can replace local broadcast radio stations, the challenges from new
technologies will continue to require attention from management. In addition, we will continue to review potential opportunities to utilize such new technologies. For example, we have converted 21 of our stations (18 FM and 3 AM) to broadcast
digital radio programming as well as analog programming, which we anticipate will allow us to provide additional content to our listeners.   
Seasonality   
Seasonal net broadcast revenue fluctuations are common in the television and radio broadcasting industry and are due primarily to
fluctuations in advertising expenditures by local and national advertisers. Our first fiscal quarter generally produces the lowest net revenue for the year. Additionally, broadcast revenue tends to be affected by the occurrence or non-occurrence in
a given year of major sporting, political and other events, such as the World Cup, important elections, and in 2010, the census. 
  17 


Table of Contents
Material Trademarks, Trade Names and Service Marks 
  In the course of our business, we use various trademarks,
trade names and service marks, including our logos and FCC call letters, in our advertising and promotions. We believe that the strength of our trademarks, trade names and service marks are important to our business and we intend to protect and
promote them as appropriate. We do not hold or depend upon any material patent, government license, franchise or concession, except our broadcast licenses granted by the FCC. 
  Employees    As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 925 full-time employees, including 728 full-time employees
in television and 197 full-time employees in radio. As of December 31, 2011, three of our full-time television employees were represented by labor unions that have entered into collective bargaining agreements with us. We believe that our
relations with these unions and with our employees generally are good.    Regulation of Television and Radio Broadcasting    General. The FCC regulates television and radio broadcast stations pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, or the Communications Act. Among other things, the FCC: 
 


 
•
 
 determines the particular frequencies, locations and operating power of stations; 
 


 
•
 
 issues, renews, revokes and modifies station licenses; 
 


 
•
 
 regulates equipment used by stations; and   


 
•
 
 adopts and implements regulations and policies that directly or indirectly affect the ownership, changes in ownership, control, operation and
employment practices of stations.   
A licensee’s failure to observe the requirements of the Communications Act or FCC rules and policies may result in the imposition of
various sanctions, including admonishment, fines, the grant of renewal terms of less than eight years, the grant of a license renewal with conditions or, in the case of particularly egregious violations, the denial of a license renewal application,
the revocation of an FCC license or the denial of FCC consent to acquire additional broadcast properties.   
Congress and the FCC have had under consideration or reconsideration, and may in the future consider and adopt, new laws, regulations and
policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation, ownership and profitability of our television and radio stations, result in the loss of audience share and advertising revenue for our television
and radio broadcast stations or affect our ability to acquire additional television and radio broadcast stations or finance such acquisitions. Such matters may include: 
 


 
•
 
 changes to the license authorization process; 
 


 
•
 
 proposals to impose spectrum use or other fees on FCC licensees;   


 
•
 
 proposals to impose a performance tax on the music broadcast on commercial radio stations and the fees applicable to digital transmission of music on
the Internet;   


 
•
 
 proposals to change rules relating to political broadcasting including proposals to grant free airtime to candidates; 
 


 
•
 
 proposals to restrict or prohibit the advertising of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages; 
 


 
•
 
 proposals dealing with the broadcast of profane, indecent or obscene language and the consequences to a broadcaster for permitting such speech;
  


 
•
 
 technical and frequency allocation matters; 
  18 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 modifications to the operating rules for digital television and radio broadcasting rules on both satellite and terrestrial bases;
  


 
•
 
 the implementation or modification of rules governing the carriage of local television signals by direct broadcast satellite, or DBS, services and
cable television systems and the manner in which such parties negotiate such carriage arrangements;   


 
•
 
 changes in local and national broadcast multiple ownership, foreign ownership, cross-ownership and ownership attribution rules;
  


 
•
 
 proposals to take back part of the spectrum allotted for over-the-air broadcasting in favor of wireless broadband; 
 


 
•
 
 proposals whereby broadcasters may voluntarily participate in an auction of their over-the-air broadcast spectrum, otherwise agree to
modifications in their available spectrum, with or without compensation, move from the UHF to VHF band, or become subject to restrictions on their usage of the spectrum; and 
 


 
•
 
 proposals to alter provisions of the tax laws affecting broadcast operations and acquisitions. 
  We cannot predict what changes, if any, might be adopted, nor
can we predict what other matters might be considered in the future, nor can we judge in advance what impact, if any, the implementation of any particular proposal or change might have on our business. 
  FCC Licenses. Television and radio stations operate
pursuant to licenses that are granted by the FCC for a term of eight years, subject to renewal upon application to the FCC. During the periods when renewal applications are pending, petitions to deny license renewal applications may be filed by
interested parties, including members of the public. The FCC may hold hearings on renewal applications if it is unable to determine that renewal of a license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity, or if a petition to deny raises
a “substantial and material question of fact” as to whether the grant of the renewal applications would be inconsistent with the public interest, convenience and necessity. However, the FCC is prohibited from considering competing
applications for a renewal applicant’s frequency, and is required to grant the renewal application if it finds:   


 
•
 
 that the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity;   


 
•
 
 that there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the rules and regulations of the FCC; and
  


 
•
 
 that there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the rules and regulations of the FCC that, when taken together,
would constitute a pattern of abuse.    If as a result of an evidentiary hearing the FCC determines that the licensee has failed to meet the requirements for renewal and that no mitigating factors justify the imposition of a lesser sanction,
the FCC may deny a license renewal application. Historically, FCC licenses have generally been renewed. We have no reason to believe that our licenses will not be renewed in the ordinary course, although there can be no assurance to that effect. The
non-renewal of one or more of our stations’ licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business.   
Ownership Matters. The Communications Act requires prior consent of the FCC for the assignment of a broadcast license or the
transfer of control of a corporation or other entity holding a license. In determining whether to approve an assignment of a television or radio broadcast license or a transfer of control of a broadcast licensee, the FCC considers a number of
factors pertaining to the licensee including compliance with various rules limiting common ownership of media properties, the “character” of the licensee and those persons holding “attributable” interests therein, and the
Communications Act’s limitations on foreign ownership and compliance with the FCC rules and regulations. 
  19 


Table of Contents
To obtain the FCC’s prior consent to assign or transfer a broadcast license,
appropriate applications must be filed with the FCC. If the application to assign or transfer the license involves a substantial change in ownership or control of the licensee, for example, the transfer or acquisition of more than 50% of the voting
equity, the application must be placed on public notice for a period of 30 days during which petitions to deny the application may be filed by interested parties, including members of the public. If an assignment application does not involve new
parties, or if a transfer of control application does not involve a “substantial” change in ownership or control, it is a pro forma application, which is not subject to the public notice and 30-day petition to deny procedure. The regular
and pro forma applications are nevertheless subject to informal objections that may be filed any time until the FCC acts on the application. If the FCC grants an assignment or transfer application, interested parties have 30 days from public notice
of the grant to seek reconsideration of that grant. The FCC has an additional ten days to set aside such grant on its own motion. When ruling on an assignment or transfer application, the FCC is prohibited from considering whether the public
interest might be served by an assignment or transfer to any party other than the assignee or transferee specified in the application.   
Under the Communications Act, a broadcast license may not be granted to or held by persons who are not U.S. citizens, by any corporation
that has more than 20% of its capital stock owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or entities or their representatives, by foreign governments or their representatives or by non-U.S. corporations. Furthermore, the Communications Act provides that no
FCC broadcast license may be granted to or held by any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which more than 25% of its capital stock is owned of record or voted by non-U.S. citizens or entities or their
representatives, or foreign governments or their representatives or by non-U.S. corporations. Thus, the licenses for our stations could be revoked if our outstanding capital stock is issued to or for the benefit of non-U.S. citizens in excess of
these limitations. Our first restated certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership and voting of our capital stock to comply with these requirements.   
The FCC generally applies its other broadcast ownership limits to “attributable” interests held by an individual, corporation or
other association or entity. In the case of a corporation holding broadcast licenses, the interests of officers, directors and those who, directly or indirectly, have the right to vote 5% or more of the stock of a licensee corporation are generally
deemed attributable interests, as are positions as an officer or director of a corporate parent of a broadcast licensee.   
Stock interests held by insurance companies, mutual funds, bank trust departments and certain other passive investors that hold stock for
investment purposes only become attributable with the ownership of 20% or more of the voting stock of the corporation holding broadcast licenses.   
A time brokerage agreement with another television or radio station in the same market creates an attributable interest in the brokered
television or radio station as well for purposes of the FCC’s local television or radio station ownership rules, if the agreement affects more than 15% of the brokered television or radio station’s weekly broadcast hours. Likewise, a joint
sales agreement involving radio stations creates a similar attributable interest for the broadcast station that is undertaking the sales function.   
Debt instruments, non-voting stock, options and warrants for voting stock that have not yet been exercised, insulated limited partnership
interests where the limited partner is not “materially involved” in the media-related activities of the partnership and minority voting stock interests in corporations where there is a single holder of more than 50% of the outstanding
voting stock whose vote is sufficient to affirmatively direct the affairs of the corporation generally do not subject their holders to attribution.   
However, the FCC also applies a rule, known as the equity-debt-plus rule, which causes certain creditors or investors to be attributable
owners of a station, regardless of whether there is a single majority stockholder or other applicable exception to the FCC’s attribution rules. Under this rule, a major programming supplier (any programming supplier that provides more than 15%
of the station’s weekly programming hours) or a same-market media entity will be an attributable owner of a station if the supplier or same-market media entity holds 
  20 


Table of Contents

debt or equity, or both, in the station that is greater than 33% of the value of the station’s total debt plus equity. For purposes of the equity-debt-plus rule, equity includes all stock,
whether voting or nonvoting, and equity held by insulated limited partners in limited partnerships. Debt includes all liabilities, whether long-term or short-term. 
  Under the ownership rules currently in place, the FCC
generally permits an owner to have only one television station per market. A single owner is permitted to have two stations with overlapping signals so long as they are assigned to different markets. The FCC’s rules regarding ownership permit,
however, an owner to operate two television stations assigned to the same market so long as either:   


 
•
 
 the television stations do not have overlapping broadcast signals; or   


 
•
 
 there will remain after the transaction eight independently owned, full power noncommercial or commercial operating television stations in the market
and one of the two commonly-owned stations is not ranked in the top four based upon audience share.   
The FCC will consider waiving these ownership restrictions in certain cases involving failing or failed stations or stations which are not
yet built.    The FCC permits a television station
owner to own one radio station in the same market as its television station. In addition, a television station owner is permitted to own additional radio stations, not to exceed the local radio ownership limits for the market, as follows:
  


 
•
 
 in markets where 20 media voices will remain, a television station owner may own an additional five radio stations, or, if the owner only has one
television station, an additional six radio stations; and   


 
•
 
 in markets where ten media voices will remain, a television station owner may own an additional three radio stations. 
  A “media voice” includes each independently-owned
and operated full-power television and radio station and each daily newspaper that has a circulation exceeding 5% of the households in the market, plus one voice for all cable television systems operating in the market. 
  The FCC rules impose a limit on the number of television
stations a single individual or entity may own nationwide.    The number of radio stations an entity or individual may own in a radio market is as follows:   


 
•
 
 In a radio market with 45 or more commercial radio stations, a party may own, operate or control up to eight commercial radio stations, not more than
five of which are in the same service (AM or FM).   


 
•
 
 In a radio market with between 30 and 44 (inclusive) commercial radio stations, a party may own, operate or control up to seven commercial radio
stations, not more than four of which are in the same service (AM or FM).   


 
•
 
 In a radio market with between 15 and 29 (inclusive) commercial radio stations, a party may own, operate or control up to six commercial radio
stations, not more than four of which are in the same service (AM or FM).   


 
•
 
 In a radio market with 14 or fewer commercial radio stations, a party may own, operate or control up to five commercial radio stations, not more than
three of which are in the same service (AM or FM), except that a party may not own, operate, or control more than 50% of the radio stations in such market. 
  Because of these multiple and cross-ownership rules, if a
stockholder, officer or director of Entravision holds an “attributable” interest in Entravision, such stockholder, officer or director may violate the FCC’s rules if such person or entity also holds or acquires an attributable
interest in other television or radio stations or daily 
  21 


Table of Contents

newspapers in such markets, depending on their number and location. If an attributable stockholder, officer or director of Entravision violates any of these ownership rules, we may be unable to
obtain from the FCC one or more authorizations needed to conduct our broadcast business and may be unable to obtain FCC consents for certain future acquisitions. 
  Pursuant to the Communications Act, the FCC is required, on a
quadrennial basis, to review its media ownership rules. The FCC began the most recent such review in 2010. The FCC is expected to release an order in connection with its review, in late 2012.    The rule changes that have previously gone into effect amend the FCC’s methodology for defining a radio
market for the purpose of ownership caps. The FCC replaced its signal contour method of defining local radio markets in favor of a geographic market assigned by Arbitron, the private audience measurement service for radio broadcasters. For
non-Arbitron markets, the FCC is conducting a rulemaking in order to define markets in a manner comparable to Arbitron’s method. In the interim, the FCC will apply a “modified contour approach,” to non-Arbitron markets. This modified
approach will exclude any radio station whose transmitter site is more than 58 miles from the perimeter of the mutual overlap area. As for newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership, the Commission adopted a presumption that newspaper-broadcast ownership
is consistent with the public interest in the top 20 television markets, while the presumption, in smaller markets, is that such cross-ownership is not consistent with the public interest, subject to certain exceptions. 
  With regard to the national television ownership limit, the
FCC increased the national television ownership limit to 45% from 35%. Congress subsequently enacted legislation that reduced the nationwide cap to 39%. Accordingly, a company can now own television stations collectively reaching up to a 39% share
of U.S. television households. Limits on ownership of multiple local television stations still apply, even if the 39% limit is not reached on a national level.   
In establishing a national cap by statute, Congress did not make mention of the FCC’s UHF discount policy, whereby UHF stations are
deemed to serve only one-half of the population in their television markets. The FCC has decided that the Congressional action preempted it from altering the UHF discount policy. 
  As discussed above, Congress has already modified the
nationwide television ownership cap and has considered legislation that would roll back the FCC’s proposed changes. The FCC in 2010 commenced its latest review of its ownership rules. Any actions by the FCC in the future regarding radio and/or
television ownership may elicit further Congressional response.    The Communications Act requires broadcasters to serve the “public interest.” The FCC has relaxed or eliminated many of the more formalized procedures it developed to promote the broadcast of
certain types of programming responsive to the needs of a broadcast station’s community of license. Nevertheless, a broadcast licensee continues to be required to present programming in response to community problems, needs and interests and to
maintain certain records demonstrating its responsiveness. The FCC considers complaints from the public about a broadcast station’s programming when it evaluates the licensee’s renewal application, but complaints also may be filed and
considered at any time. Stations also must follow various FCC rules that regulate, among other things, political broadcasting, the broadcast of profane, obscene or indecent programming, sponsorship identification, the broadcast of contests and
lotteries and technical operations.    The FCC
requires that licensees must not discriminate in hiring practices. It has recently released new rules that will require us to adhere to certain outreach practices when hiring personnel for our stations and to keep records of our compliance with
these requirements. On March 10, 2003, the FCC’s current Equal Employment Opportunity, or EEO, rules went into effect. The rules set forth a three-pronged recruitment and outreach program for companies with five or more full-time employees
that requires the wide dissemination of information regarding full-time vacancies, notification to requesting recruitment organizations of such vacancies, and a number of non-vacancy related outreach efforts such as job fairs and internships.
Stations are required to 
  22 


Table of Contents

collect various information concerning vacancies, such as the number filled, recruitment sources used to fill each vacancy, and the number of persons interviewed for each vacancy. While stations
are not required to routinely submit information to the FCC, stations must place an EEO report containing vacancy-related information and a description of outreach efforts in their public file annually. Stations must submit the annual EEO public
file report as part of their renewal applications, and television stations with five or more full-time employees and radio stations with more than ten employees also must submit the report midway through their license term for FCC review. Stations
also must place their EEO public file report on their Internet websites, if they have one. Beyond our compliance efforts, the new EEO rules should not materially affect our operations. Failure to comply with the FCC’s EEO rules could result in
sanctions or the revocation of station licenses.   
The FCC rules also prohibit a broadcast licensee from simulcasting more than 25% of its programming on another radio station in the same
broadcast service (that is, AM/AM or FM/FM). The simulcasting restriction applies if the licensee owns both radio broadcast stations or owns one and programs the other through a local marketing agreement, provided that the contours of the radio
stations overlap in a certain manner.   
“Must Carry” Rules. FCC regulations implementing the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, or
the Cable Act, require each full-power television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals beginning October 1, 1993, to either:   


 
•
 
 require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station’s market, which is referred to as “must carry” rules; or
  


 
•
 
 negotiate the terms on which such broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market which is referred to
as “retransmission consent.”    For the three-year period commencing on January 1, 2012, we generally elected “retransmission consent” in notifying the MVPDs that carry our television programming in our television
markets. We have arrangements or have entered into agreements with nearly all of our MVPDs as to the terms of the carriage of our television stations and the compensation we will receive for granting such carriage rights, including through our
national program supplier for Spanish-language programming, Univision, for our Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliated television stations, for the three-year period. We have a few such agreements that expire during the three-year period and we expect
to be able to reach agreement with the applicable MVPDs.    Under the FCC’s rules currently in effect, cable systems are only required to carry one signal from each local broadcast television station. As an element of the retransmission consent negotiations
described above, we arranged that our broadcast signal be available to our MVPD viewers, no matter whether they obtain their cable service in analog or digital modes. 
  The adoption of digital television service allows us to
broadcast multiple streams of our programming, which is commonly referred to as multicasting.    We are exploring, subject to our legal rights to do so, and the economic opportunities available to us, the distribution of our programming in alternative modes, such as by delivery on the Internet, by
multicast delivery services, and to individuals possessing wireless mobile reception devices.    Time Brokerage, Joint Sales Agreements and Shared Services Agreements. We have, from time to time, entered into time brokerage, joint sales and shared services agreements, generally in connection
with pending station acquisitions, under which we are given the right to broker time on stations owned by third parties, agree that other parties may broker time on our stations, we or other parties sell broadcast time on a station, or share
operating services with another broadcast station in the same market, as the case may be. By using these agreements, we can provide programming and other services to a station proposed to be acquired before we receive all applicable FCC and other
governmental approvals, or receive such programming and other services where a third party is better able to undertake programming and/or sales efforts for us. 
  23 


Table of Contents
FCC rules and policies generally permit time brokerage agreements if the station licensee
retains ultimate responsibility for and control of the applicable station. We cannot be sure that we will be able to air all of our scheduled programming on a station with which we have time brokerage agreements or that we will receive the
anticipated revenue from the sale of advertising for such programming.    Under a typical joint sales agreement, a station licensee obtains, for a fee, the right to sell substantially all of the commercial advertising on a separately owned and licensed station in the same
market. It also involves the provision by the selling party of certain sales, accounting and services to the station whose advertising is being sold. Unlike a time brokerage agreement, the typical joint sales agreement does not involve operating the
station’s program format.    As part of its
increased scrutiny of television and radio station acquisitions, the DOJ has stated publicly that it believes that time brokerage agreements and joint sales agreements could violate the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as
amended, or the HSRA, if such agreements take effect prior to the expiration of the waiting period under the HSRA. Furthermore, the DOJ has noted that joint sales agreements may raise antitrust concerns under Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust
Act and has challenged them in certain locations. The DOJ also has stated publicly that it has established certain revenue and audience share concentration benchmarks with respect to television and radio station acquisitions, above which a
transaction may receive additional antitrust scrutiny. See “Risk Factors” below.    The FCC is examining such understandings as part of its quadrennial media owenership review that began in 2010.   
Digital Television Services. The FCC has adopted rules for implementing digital television service in the United States.
Implementation of digital television has improved the technical quality of television signals and provides broadcasters the flexibility to offer new services, including high-definition television and broadband data transmission. The digital
transition for full-power television stations was completed on June 12, 2009.    The FCC has required full-power television stations in the United States to operate in digital television. The FCC has recently set September 1, 2015 as the date for the transition of low-power
television stations to digital transmission. We are in the process of transitioning certain of our low-power stations to digital where we believe that an audience is present to view such stations. 
  The FCC has adopted rules to permit low-power stations to
operate on a paired or stand-alone basis in digital service. We have secured authority for certain of our low-power stations to have paired operations. We have also, in certain cases, requested authority to “flash cut” certain of our
low-power stations to digital service. In those markets where no spectrum was available for paired operations, we will make a decision to switch individual stations from analog to digital service based on the viewing patterns of our viewers and the
discontinuance of analog broadcast transmissions by full-power television stations.    Equipment and other costs associated with the transition to digital television, including the necessity of temporary dual-mode operations and the relocation of stations from one channel to another, have
imposed some near-term financial costs on our television stations providing the services. The potential also exists for new sources of revenue to be derived from use of the digital spectrum, which we have begun to explore in certain of our markets.
   Digital Radio Services. The FCC has
adopted standards for authorizing and implementing terrestrial digital audio broadcasting technology, known as In-Band On-Channel™ or HD Radio, for radio stations. Digital audio broadcasting’s advantages over traditional analog
broadcasting technology include improved sound quality and the ability to offer a greater variety of auxiliary services. This technology permits FM and AM stations to transmit radio programming in both analog and digital formats, or in digital only
formats, using the bandwidth that the radio station is currently licensed to use. We have elected and commenced the process of rolling out this 
  24 


Table of Contents

technology on a gradual basis owing to the absence of receivers equipped to receive such signals and are considering its merits as well as its costs. It is unclear what effect such technology
will have on our business or the operations of our radio stations.    Radio Frequency Radiation. The FCC has adopted rules limiting human exposure to levels of radio frequency radiation. These rules require applicants for renewal of broadcast licenses or modification
of existing licenses to inform the FCC whether an applicant’s broadcast facility would expose people to excessive radio frequency radiation. We currently believe that all of our stations are in compliance with the FCC’s current rules
regarding radio frequency radiation exposure.   
Low-Power Radio Broadcast Service. The FCC has created a low-power FM radio service and has granted a limited number of
construction permits for such stations. Pursuant to legislation adopted in 2011, this service will be expanded and the opportunities for FM translator stations reduced. The low-power FM service consists of two classes of radio stations, with maximum
power levels of either 10 watts or 100 watts. The 10-watt stations will reach an area with a radius of between one and two miles, and the 100-watt stations reach an area with a radius of approximately three and one-half miles. The low-power FM
stations are required to protect other existing FM stations, as currently required of full-powered FM stations.   
The low-power FM service is exclusively non-commercial. To date, our stations have not suffered any technical interference from such
low-power FM stations’ signals. Due to current technical restrictions and the non-commercial ownership requirement for low-power FM stations, we have not found that low-power FM service has caused any detrimental economic impact on our stations
as well. Federal legislation has recently been adopted into law to increase the availability of low-power FM service. We do not foresee any material impact on our stations as a result of this legislation. 
  Other Proceedings. The Satellite Home Viewer
Improvement Act of 1999, or SHVIA, allows satellite carriers to deliver broadcast programming to subscribers who are unable to obtain television network programming over the air from local television stations. Congress in 1999 enacted legislation to
amend the SHVIA to facilitate the ability of satellite carriers to provide subscribers with programming from local television stations. Any satellite company that has chosen to provide local-into-local service must provide subscribers with all of
the local broadcast television signals that are assigned to the market and where television licensees ask to be carried on the satellite system. We have taken advantage of this law to secure carriage of our full-power stations in those markets where
the satellite operators have implemented local-into-local service. SHVIA expired in 2004 and Congress adopted the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004, or SHVERA. SHVERA extended the ability of satellite operators to
implement local-into-local service. SHVERA expired in late 2009, but was extended in May 2010 by the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act, or STELA. STELA provided a further five-year extension of the “carry one/carry all” rule
earlier adopted in SHVIA and SHVERA. To the extent we have decided to secure our carriage on DBS through retransmission consent agreements, the “carry one/carry all” rule is no longer relevant to us. While STELA made certain changes, we do
not foresee a material impact of such legislation on our operations. The FCC is in the process of requiring television stations to disclose additional information on their compliance with public service obligations, considering the local service
obligations of broadcasters, and promoting greater diversity among broadcasters. We do not forsee any material impact on our business from such proposed or adopted rules. 
  White Spaces. The FCC has adopted rules, that are
under appeal by the National Association of Broadcasters and other parties, to allow unlicensed users to operate within the broadcast spectrum in unoccupied parts known as the “white spaces.” The intention of the rules was to make
available unused spectrum for use in connection with wireless functions related to connectivity between computers and related devices and the Internet. The FCC believes that the provisions it adopted will protect broadcast services. Broadcast
groups, on the other hand, believe that operation of unlicensed devices in the “white spaces” has the potential for causing interference to broadcast reception. It is premature to judge the potential impact of what services, if any,
operate under the FCC’s rules on over-the-air broadcasting. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Performance Tax. While radio broadcasters have long paid license fees to composers
for the musical works they have written, radio broadcasters have never compensated musical artists for their recordings of these works. The rationale was that the radio broadcasting industry provided artists, free of charge, with a promotional
service for their performance.    As the entire
music industry has changed, with revenues from the sale of CDs continuing to drop dramatically, both musical artists and the recording companies have sought a change in how business is done. The recording companies, with the backing of many artists,
have asked the Congress to require that broadcasters pay fees for the broadcast exploitation of musical works. Such legislation received favorable committee action in the U.S. Congress during 2009 and 2010, but no legislation was then enacted. The
Congress has not taken any subsequent actions, but the issue remains under consideration.    Were such legislation to be adopted, its impact would depend on how any fees were structured.   
Spectrum Policies. After studying national broadband needs, the FCC made a determination that a critical need exists to expand the
spectrum available for wireless broadband services. This need is perceived to arise based on a finding that consumers and businesses will have an increasing usage of wireless devices and the associated spectrum for telephony, data transmission, and
entertainment purposes. The FCC has further determined that in order to avert a spectrum crisis, it must recover and reallocate to wireless broadband a total of 500 MHz of spectrum, of which 120 MHz (amounting to 20 channels) should come from
spectrum currently allocated to television broadcasting.    In order to achieve this spectrum recovery, the FCC has proposed that broadcasters participate in “voluntary auctions” in which interested station owners would offer the spectrum of their
stations in auction in which wireless operators would participate as buyers. Legislation to achieve that goal was enacted by Congress in February 2012. The FCC will now develop rules to establish how the auctions will be undertaken, how stations
will be valued, what percentage of the auction payments will go to broadcasters, and what rights, if any, will selling stations retain following the completion of the sale of their stations and associated spectrum. 
  Any reduction in available spectrum arising from the spectrum
auction may have an impact on low-power stations (other than Class A stations). The loss of such broadcasting opportunities could have a detrimental effect on our business. 
  The FCC commenced a proceeding in November 2010 to determine
how to modernize spectrum rules for the television band. Among the proposals under consideration are the sharing of the spectrum allocated to a television station among multiple stations, altering spacing among stations and interference protections
between stations, and improving television reception in the VHF band so that remaining television stations would use VHF spectrum while freeing up UHF channels from 32 to 51. It is premature to reach any conclusions as to these proceedings and the
eventual impact therefrom on the future of television broadcasting.   
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   
While we have a history of losses in some periods and income in other periods, periods of losses, if continued, could adversely
affect the market price of our securities and our ability to raise capital.    We had net losses of approximately $8.2 million, $18.1 million and $50.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If we cannot generate profits or generate them on
a consistent basis in the future, there could be an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity capital or to incur additional debt as and when needed. 
  26 


Table of Contents
If we cannot raise required capital, we may have to reduce or curtail certain existing
operations.    We require significant
additional capital for general working capital and debt service needs. If our cash flow and existing working capital are not sufficient to fund our general working capital and debt service requirements, we will have to raise additional funds by
selling equity, refinancing some or all of our existing debt or selling assets or subsidiaries. None of these alternatives for raising additional funds may be available on acceptable terms to us or in amounts sufficient for us to meet our
requirements. In addition, our ability to raise additional funds and engage in acquisitions is limited by the terms of the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement. Our failure to obtain any required new financing may, if needed, require us to
reduce or curtail certain existing operations.   
Our substantial level of debt could limit our ability to grow and compete. 
  Our total indebtedness was approximately $383.8 million as
of December 31, 2011. A significant portion of our cash flow from operations is and will continue to be used to service our debt obligations, and our ability to obtain additional financing is limited by the terms of the Indenture and the
amended Credit Agreement. We may not have sufficient future cash flow to meet our debt payments, or we may not be able to refinance any of our debt at maturity. We have pledged substantially all of our assets and our existing and future domestic
subsidiaries to our lenders as collateral. Our lenders could proceed against the collateral to repay outstanding indebtedness if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations. If we were to have amounts outstanding under our 2010 Credit
Facility agreement, and such amounts outstanding were to be accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to such lenders.   
Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, such as: 
 


 
•
 
 preventing us, under the terms of the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement, from obtaining additional financing to grow our business and compete
effectively;   


 
•
 
 limiting our ability, as a practical matter, to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service
requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes; and   


 
•
 
 placing us at a disadvantage compared to those of our competitors who have less debt. 
  The Indenture, the amended Credit Agreement, or both,
contain various covenants that limit management’s discretion in the operation of our business and could limit our ability to grow and compete.   
Subject to certain limited exceptions, both the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement contain various provisions that limit our
ability to:   


 
•
 
 incur additional indebtedness;   


 
•
 
 incur liens;   


 
•
 
 merge, dissolve, consolidate, or sell all or substantially all of our assets; 
 


 
•
 
 make certain investments;   


 
•
 
 make certain restricted payments;   


 
•
 
 declare certain dividends or distributions or repurchase shares of our capital stock; 
 


 
•
 
 enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and 
 


 
•
 
 change the nature of our business.   
In addition, the Indenture contains various provisions that limit our ability to: 
 


 
•
 
 apply the proceeds from certain asset sales other than in accordance with the terms of the Indenture; and 
 


 
•
 
 restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries. 
  27 


Table of Contents
In addition, the amended Credit Agreement contains various provisions that limit our ability
to:   


 
•
 
 dispose of certain assets; and   


 
•
 
 amend our or any guarantor’s organizational documents of the Company in any way that is materially adverse to the lenders under our 2010 Credit
Facility.    These provisions
restrict our management’s ability to operate our business in accordance with management’s discretion and could limit our ability to do a number of things, including growing and competing effectively. 
  Moreover, if we fail to comply with any of the financial
covenants or ratios under our 2010 Credit Facility, our lenders could:   


 
•
 
 Elect to declare all amounts borrowed to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; and/or
  


 
•
 
 Terminate their commitments, if any, to make further extensions of credit.    In addition, if our total leverage ratio exceeds 6.50 to 1.00 as of the end of the most recently completed
fiscal quarter, the maximum principal outstanding amount of all loans under our 2010 Credit Facility cannot exceed $25.0 million. In the event that the maximum principal outstanding amount exceeds $25.0 million in that case, we must immediately
prepay outstanding revolving loans in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess. Under the amended Credit Agreement, our total leverage ratio may not exceed 7.00 to 1 in future periods.    Any such action by our lenders would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and financial
condition.    In recent years, we have
experienced net losses, primarily as a result of the current uncertain economic conditions. Were these conditions to continue for an extended period of time or worsen, our ability to comply with the Notes or our 2010 Credit Facility, including
financial covenants and ratios, and continue to operate our business as it is presently conducted, could be jeopardized.   
We reported a net loss of $8.2 million and had positive cash flow from operations of $17.6 million for the year ended December 31,
2011. We reported a net loss of $18.1 million and had positive cash flow from operations of $37.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $939.0 million. If we
were to continue to experience net losses and declining net revenue, there could be an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, if events or circumstances occur such that we were not able to generate positive cash flow and
operate our business as it is presently conducted, we may be required to refinance our existing debt, sell assets, curtail certain operations and/or obtain additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such transactions, if
required, could be consummated on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Any default under the Notes or our 2010 Credit Facility, inability to renegotiate such agreements if required, obtain additional financing if needed, or obtain waivers for any
failure to comply with financial covenants and ratios would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and financial condition.   
Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on the Notes and service our other
indebtedness and financial obligations and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. In addition, we may not be able to pay amounts due on our
indebtedness.    As of December 31,
2011, we had outstanding total indebtedness of approximately $383.8 million. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes and amounts borrowed under our 2010 Credit Facility and other financial obligations, and
to fund our operations will depend on our ability to 
  28 


Table of Contents

generate substantial operating cash flow. Our cash flow generation will depend on our future performance, which is subject to many factors, including prevailing economic conditions and financial,
business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.    Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our 2010 Credit Facility or otherwise, in amounts sufficient to enable us to
service our indebtedness, including the Notes and borrowings under our 2010 Credit Facility, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If events or circumstances occur such that we are not able to generate positive cash flow and operate our business as
it is presently conducted, we may be required to refinance our existing indebtedness, sell assets, curtail certain operations and/or obtain additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such transactions, if required, could be
consummated on terms satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, the current uncertain economic environment has had and may continue to have an impact on our liquidity and capital resources. Because of these and other factors beyond our control, we
may be unable to pay the principal, premium (if any), interest or other amounts on our indebtedness.   
Current uncertain economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial
position.    The continuation or worsening
of current uncertain economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of our business, results of operations and/or financial position. These conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industry of those
customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the services, telecommunications, automotive, fast food and restaurant, and retail industries, which provide a significant amount of our advertising revenue. There can be no
assurance that we will not experience any further material adverse effect on our business as a result of the current economic conditions or that the actions of the United States Government, Federal Reserve or other governmental and regulatory bodies
for the reported purpose of stabilizing the economy or financial markets will achieve their intended effect. Additionally, some of these actions may adversely affect financial institutions, capital providers, advertisers or other consumers or
our financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities. Potential consequences of the foregoing include:   


 
•
 
 the financial condition of companies that advertise on our stations, including, among others, those in the services, telecommunications, automotive,
fast food and restaurant, and retail industries, which may file for bankruptcy protection or face severe cash flow issues, may result in a further significant decline in our advertising revenue; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to borrow capital on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could limit our ability to refinance
our existing debt;   


 
•
 
 our ability to pursue permitted acquisitions or divestitures of television or radio assets may be limited, both as a result of these factors and, with
respect to acquisitions, limitations contained in the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement;   


 
•
 
 the possible further impairment of some or all of the value of our syndicated programming, goodwill and other intangible assets, including our
broadcast licenses; and  


 
•
 
 the possibility that one or more of the lenders under our 2010 Credit Facility could refuse to fund its commitment to us or could fail, and we may not
be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all.   
The recent recession and difficulties in the global capital and credit markets have adversely affected, and current uncertain
economic conditions may continue to adversely affect, our business, as well as the industries of many of our customers, which are cyclical in nature.   
Some of the markets in which our advertisers participate, such as the services, telecommunications, automotive, fast food and restaurant,
and retail industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. Recent declines in consumer and business confidence and spending, together with significant

  29 


Table of Contents

reductions in the availability and increases in the cost of credit and volatility in the capital and credit markets, have adversely affected the business and economic environment in which we
operate and can affect the profitability of our business. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key advertisers and other strategic business partners. These conditions have resulted in financial instability or
other adverse effects at many of our advertisers and other strategic business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the delay or cancellation of customer advertising orders, cancellation of our programming and termination
of facilities that broadcast or re-broadcast our programming. The reoccurrence of any of these conditions may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. During 2008 and 2009, as a result of the global financial crisis and
recession, lenders and institutional investors reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers reducing the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide.
Although the markets have generally stabilized since the depths of the recession, the economic recovery has been weak. Future disruption of the credit markets and/or sluggish economic growth in future periods could adversely affect our
customers’ access to credit which supports the continuation and expansion of their businesses and could result in advertising or broadcast cancellations or suspensions, payment delays or defaults by our customers. 
  Current uncertain economic conditions and their impact
on consumer and general business confidence could negatively affect us.    Recent disruption in the financial markets has generally created increasingly difficult conditions for companies globally. Consumer confidence and business and consumer spending have been volatile during
this period, and could remain so for an extended period. Consumer purchases of advertising time are sensitive to these conditions and may decline in future periods where disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. The
tightening of credit in financial markets also adversely affects the ability of our customers to obtain financing for advertising purchases.   
Adverse or uncertain general economic conditions may cause potential customers to defer or forgo the purchase of advertising time.
Moreover, insolvencies associated with the current or future economic downturns could adversely affect our business through the loss of carriers and clients or by hampering our ability to sell advertising or generate retransmission consent revenue.
Further, reduced levels of staffing due to further layoffs could also have a negative impact on our business by spreading our personnel resources too thinly and not being able to cover all of our customer markets as effectively as in previous
periods.    If our earnings were to decrease in
future periods, it is possible that we would fail to comply with the terms of the Notes or our 2010 Credit Facility, which would have a significant adverse effect on us. 
  Current uncertain economic conditions may affect our
financial performance or our ability to forecast our business with accuracy.    Our operations and performance depend significantly on U.S. and, to a lesser extent, international economic conditions and their impact on purchases of advertising by our customers. As a result of the
global financial crisis, which was experienced on a broad and extensive scope and scale, and the recession in the United States, general economic conditions deteriorated significantly throughout 2008 and most of 2009, and the economic recovery since
that time has been weak. Economic conditions may remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. In 2010, we experienced increased customer demand for advertising commitments in both our television and radio segments. However, excluding advertising
solely attributable to the World Cup and political activity, we believe that demand was relatively flat for advertising during 2010. Additionally, in 2011, we did not benefit from the occurrence of any of these periodic events. We further believe
that this uncertainty may continue in future periods, as our customers alter their purchasing activities in response to the new economic reality, and, among other things, our customers may change or scale back future purchases of advertising. This
uncertainty may also affect our ability to prepare accurate financial forecasts or meet specific forecasted results. It is currently unclear as to what overall effect the current economic conditions and uncertainties will continue to have on the

  30 


Table of Contents

marketplace and our future business. If we are unable to adequately respond to or forecast further changes in demand for advertising if current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, our
results of operations, financial condition and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected.   
Cancellations or reductions of advertising could adversely affect our results of operations. 
  We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers,
and advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty. We have experienced cancellations, reductions or delays in purchases of advertising from time to time in the past and more regularly during the global financial crisis and
recession. These have affected, and could continue to affect, our revenue and results of operations, especially if we are unable to replace such advertising purchases. Many of our expenses are based, at least in part, on our expectations of future
revenue and are therefore relatively fixed once budgeted. Therefore, weakness in advertising sales would adversely impact both our revenue and our results of operations. 
  Our advertising revenue can vary substantially from
period to period based on many factors beyond our control, including but not limited to those discussed above. This volatility affects our operating results and may reduce our ability to repay indebtedness or reduce the market value of our
securities.    We rely on sales of
advertising time for most of our revenues and, as a result, our operating results are sensitive to the amount of advertising revenue we generate. If we generate less revenue, it may be more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness and the
value of our business may decline. Our ability to sell advertising time depends on:   


 
•
 
 the levels of advertising, which can fluctuate between and among industry groups and in general, based on industry and general economic conditions;
  


 
•
 
 the health of the economy in the area where our television and radio stations are located and in the nation as a whole; 
 


 
•
 
 the popularity of our programming and that of our competition; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; 
 


 
•
 
 the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums, such as other broadcast television
stations, radio stations, MVPDs and internet and broadband content providers serving in the same markets; and   


 
•
 
 other factors that may be beyond our control. 
  Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions
could negatively affect our financial position and operating results.    We prepare our financial statements in accordance with GAAP. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities, and our financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions,
including those relating to the valuation of intangible assets, investments, income taxes, stock-based compensation, claims handling obligations, retirement plans, reserves, litigation and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical
experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time we make those assumptions, based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from our estimated results. Additionally, changes in accounting
standards, assumptions or estimates may have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 
  31 


Table of Contents
The terms of any additional equity or convertible debt financing could contain terms
that are superior to the rights of our existing security holders.    Depending upon our future results of operations, ability to further reduce costs as necessary and comply with our financing agreements, including financial covenants and ratios, we may require additional
equity or debt financing. If future funds are raised through issuance of stock or convertible debt, these securities could have rights, privileges and preference senior to those of common stock. The sale of additional equity securities or securities
convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities could also result in dilution to our current shareholders. There can be no assurance that additional financing, if required, will be available on terms satisfactory to us or at all. 
  Any failure to maintain our FCC broadcast licenses
could cause a default under our 2010 Credit Facility and cause an acceleration of our indebtedness.   
Our 2010 Credit Facility requires us to maintain our FCC licenses. If the FCC were to revoke any of our material licenses, our lenders
could declare all amounts outstanding under the 2010 Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the amounts owed. 
  We have a significant amount of goodwill and other
intangible assets and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. We have recently recorded impairments of our television and radio assets. 
  Goodwill and intangible assets totaled $282 million and $283
million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily attributable to acquisitions in prior years. At the date of these acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired goodwill and intangible assets equaled its book value. At least
annually, we test our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations,
including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products or services sold by our businesses and a variety of other factors.   
Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested annually on October 1 for impairment, or more frequently if events or
changes in circumstances indicate that our assets might be impaired. Such circumstances may include, among other things, a further significant decrease in our revenues, decrease in prevailing broadcast transaction multiples, deterioration in
broadcasting industry revenues, adverse market conditions, and a further significant decrease in our market capitalization. Appraisals of any of our reporting units or changes in estimates of our future cash flows could affect our impairment
analysis in future periods and cause us to record either an additional expense for impairment of assets previously determined to be impaired or record an expense for impairment of other assets. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize
the full value of our intangible assets. Any determination of impairment of our goodwill or other intangibles could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.    Univision’s ownership of our Class U common stock may make some transactions difficult or impossible
to complete without Univision’s support.    Univision is the holder of all of our issued and outstanding Class U common stock. Although the Class U common stock has limited voting rights and does not include the right to elect directors, Univision
does have the right to approve any merger, consolidation or other business combination involving our company, any dissolution of our company and any assignment of the FCC licenses for any of our Univision-affiliated television stations.
Univision’s ownership interest may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without Univision’s support or due to
Univision’s then-existing media interests in applicable markets. 
  32 


Table of Contents
If our affiliation or other contractual relationships with Univision or
Univision’s programming success change in an adverse manner, it could negatively affect our television ratings, business, revenue and results of operations. 
  Our affiliation and other contractual relationships with
Univision have a significant impact on our business, revenue and results of operations of our television stations. If our affiliation agreement or another contractual relationship with Univision were terminated, or if Univision were to stop
providing programming to us for any reason and we were unable to obtain replacement programming of comparable quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and results of operations. We regularly engage in discussions
with Univision regarding various matters relating to our contractual relationships. If Univision were to not continue to provide programming, marketing, available advertising time and other support to us on the same basis as currently provided, or
if our affiliation agreement or another contractual relationship with Univision were to otherwise change in an adverse manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and results of operations. 
  Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising
revenue primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Audience ratings are a key factor in determining our television advertising rates and the revenue that we generate. If Univision’s programming success or ratings were
to decline, it could lead to a reduction in our advertising rates and advertising revenue on which our television business depends. Univision’s relationships with Televisa and Venevision are important to Univision’s, and consequently our,
continued success. If Televisa were to stop providing programming to Univision for any reason, and Univision were unable to provide us with replacement programming of comparable quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and
results of operations. Additionally, by aligning ourselves closely with Univision, we might forego other opportunities that could diversify our television programming and avoid dependence on Univision’s television networks 
  Because three of our directors and officers, and
stockholders affiliated with them, hold the majority of our voting power, they can ensure the outcome of most matters on which our stockholders vote.   
As of December 31, 2011, Walter F. Ulloa, Philip C. Wilkinson and Paul A. Zevnik together held approximately 81% of the combined
voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. Each of Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik is a member of our board of directors, and Messrs. Ulloa and Wilkinson also serve as executive officers of our company. In addition to their shares
of our Class A common stock, collectively they own all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, which have ten votes per share on any matter subject to a vote of the stockholders. Accordingly, Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson
and Zevnik have the ability to elect each of the members of our board of directors. Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik have agreed contractually to vote their shares to elect themselves as directors of our company. Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and
Zevnik, acting in concert, also have the ability to control the outcome of most matters requiring stockholder approval. This control may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of our company, such
as a merger or sale of the company.   
Stockholders who desire to change control of our company may be prevented from doing so by provisions of our second amended and
restated certificate of incorporation and the agreement that governs our 2010 Credit Facility. In addition, other agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover.    Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to
acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation could diminish the opportunities for a stockholder to participate in tender offers. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation,
our board of directors may issue preferred stock on terms that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. The issuance of preferred stock could also negatively affect the voting power of holders of our common
stock. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of discouraging or preventing an acquisition or sale of our business. 
  33 


Table of Contents
In addition, the amended Credit Agreement contains limitations on our ability to enter into
a change of control transaction. Under the amended Credit Agreement, the occurrence of a change of control would constitute an event of default permitting acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. 
  If we do not successfully respond to rapid changes in
technology and evolving industry trends, we may not be able to compete effectively.    Technology in the broadcast, entertainment and Internet industries is changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of content delivery, as well as certain changes in consumer or
advertiser behavior driven by changes in these or other technologies and methods of delivery, could have a negative effect on our business. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, satellite radio, video games, DVD players
and other personal video and audio systems (e.g., iPods and iPads), wireless devices, text messaging and downloading from the Internet. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time-delayed basis,
and technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs (e.g., TiVo) and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the perceived attractiveness of our services to advertisers,
and could adversely affect our advertising revenue and our results of operations. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while
avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect our advertising revenue and our results of operations. Additionally, cable providers and direct-to-home satellite operators are developing new video compression technologies that
allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating such channels and potentially leading to increased competition for viewers in some of our markets. Our ability to adapt to
changes in technology on a timely and effective basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes may affect our business prospects and results of operations. 
  If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our
broadcast operations would be impaired.   
Our television and radio businesses depend upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC. The FCC has the authority
to renew licenses, not renew them, renew them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term, or revoke them. Although we expect to renew all our FCC licenses in the ordinary course, we cannot assure investors
that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. Failing to renew any of our stations’ main licenses would prevent us from
operating the affected stations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we renew our licenses with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our
licenses for less than the standard term of eight years), it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Displacement of any of our low-power television
stations could cause our ratings and revenue for any such station to decrease.    A significant portion of our television stations are licensed by the FCC for low-power service only. Our low-power television stations operate with less power and coverage than our full-power stations.
The FCC rules under which we operate provide that low-power television stations are treated as a secondary service. If any or all of our low-power stations are found to cause interference to full-power stations or sufficient channels become
unavailable to accommodate incumbent broadcast television stations, owing to the relocation of full-power stations to fewer channels, we could be required to eliminate the interference or terminate service. In a few urban markets where we operate,
including Washington, D.C. and San Diego, there are a limited number of alternative channels to which our low-power television stations can migrate. If we are unable to move the signals of our low-power television stations to replacement channels to
the extent legally required, or such channels do not 
  34 


Table of Contents

permit us to maintain the same level of service, we may be unable to maintain the viewership these stations currently have, which could harm our ratings and advertising revenue or, in the worst
case, cause us to discontinue operations at these low-power television stations.    Because our full-power television stations rely on retransmission consent rights to obtain cable carriage, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of our cable carriage rights
could have a material adverse impact on our television operations.    We no longer rely on “must carry” rights to obtain the retransmission of our full-power television stations on MVPDs. New laws or regulations could affect retransmission consent rights and the
negotiating process between broadcasters and MVPDs.   
Our low-power television stations do not have MVPD “must carry” rights. Some of our low-power television stations are carried on
cable systems as they provide broadcast programming the cable systems desire and are part of the retransmission consent agreements we are party to. Where MVPDs are not contractually required to carry our low-power stations, we may face future
uncertainty with respect to the availability of MVPD carriage for our low-power stations.    We are a party to various retransmission consent agreements that may be terminated or not extended following their current termination dates. 
  If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or
not extended following their current termination dates, our ability to reach MVPD subscribers and, thereby, compete effectively, may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
   Retransmission consent revenue may not
continue to grow at recent rates and are subject to reverse network compensation.    While we expect the amount of revenues generated from our retransmission consent agreements to continue to grow over the next fiscal year and beyond, the rate of growth of such revenue may not continue at
recent and current rates and may be detrimentally affected by network program suppliers seeking reverse network compensation.   
Carriage of our signals on DBS services is subject to DBS companies providing local broadcast signals in the television markets we
serve and our decision as to the terms upon which our signals will be carried.    SHVIA allowed DBS television companies, which are currently DirecTV and EchoStar/Dish Network, for the first time to transmit local broadcast television station signals back to their subscribers in local
markets. In exchange for this privilege, however, SHVIA required that in television markets in which a DBS company elects to pick up and retransmit any local broadcast station signals, the DBS provider must also offer to its subscribers signals from
all other qualified local broadcast television stations in that market. Our broadcast television stations in markets for which DBS operators have elected to carry local stations have previously obtained carriage under this “carry one/carry
all” rule.    SHVIA expired in 2004 and
Congress adopted SHVERA, which expired in 2009, but was extended in May 2010 by STELA. STELA provided a further five-year extension of the “carry one/carry all” rule earlier adopted in SHVIA and SHVERA. To the extent we have decided to
secure our carriage on DBS through retransmission consent agreements, the “carry one/carry all” rule no longer is relevant to us. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Changes in the FCC’s ownership rules could lead to increased market power for our
competitors.    On June 2, 2003, the
FCC revised its national ownership policy, modified television and cross-ownership restrictions, and changed its methodology for defining radio markets. Ultimately, the only rules that were adopted were those dealing with the determination of the
number of local radio stations in local radio markets and loosening the limitations on newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership. Congress has also indicated its concern over the FCC’s new rules and legislation has been considered to restrict the
changes. The FCC has now commenced a further review of its ownership policies for the broadcast medium. To date, however, only a reduction in the nationwide television cap, to 39% of the viewing public, has been the subject of federal legislation.
Accordingly, the impact of changes in the FCC’s restrictions on how many stations a party may own, operate and/or control and on our future acquisitions and competition from other companies is limited, but, in connection with local radio
ownership and newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership, could result in our competitors’ (including newspaper owners’) ability to increase their presence in the markets in which we operate and may prevent us from adding stations in markets
where we could achieve operating efficiencies or grow our business.    We rely on over-the-air spectrum which might be taken away, auctioned or be subject to other modification pursuant to an FCC-sanctioned process. 
  Our television business operates through over-the-air
transmission of broadcast signals. These transmissions are authorized under licenses issued to our stations by the FCC. The current electromagnetic spectrum is finite and certain parts of the spectrum are better than others owing to the ability of
electromagnetic signals to penetrate buildings. This is the portion of the spectrum where broadcast stations operate.   
With the advent of mobile wireless communications and its use not only for voice but for broadband distribution, the need for spectrum has
grown. The FCC is engaged in efforts related to the implementation of a national broadcast plan it has developed. The plan calls for an increase in the amount of spectrum available for use by wireless broadband services. Available sources of such
spectrum are limited and the spectrum allotted for television broadcasting as a source for such spectrum repurposing has been identified as containing spectrum that the FCC believes should be recovered in part and made available for wireless
broadband use. The FCC has indicated that any such repurposing as it applies to full-service and Class A television stations would be voluntary and subject to the legislation recently enacted and that television broadcasters would not be
required to return their spectrum. However, despite the passage of such legislation, it cannot be certain how the FCC’s efforts to secure additional spectrum for mobile wireless communications will affect television broadcasting, as it remains
dependent on the applications of such legislation, the rules to be adopted by the FCC, and the actions of broadcasters in dealing with the new spectrum environment. 
  There are significant political, legal and technical issues
to overcome before changes in spectrum use may occur. The loss of spectrum could have a significant impact on our television business as would the sale or auction of spectrum or the modification of the available spectrum. 
  Available Information 
  We make available free of charge on our corporate website,
www.entravision.com, the following reports, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the SEC:   


 
•
 
 our annual report on Form 10-K;   


 
•
 
 our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; and   


 
•
 
 our current reports on Form 8-K.   
The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated by reference into this or any
other filing we make with the SEC. 
  36 


Table of Contents
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
  None. 
  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
  Our corporate headquarters are located in Santa Monica,
California. We lease approximately 16,000 square feet of space in the building housing our corporate headquarters under a lease expiring in 2021. We also lease approximately 45,000 square feet of space in the building housing our radio network
headquarters in Los Angeles, California, under a lease expiring in 2016.    The types of properties required to support each of our television and radio stations typically include offices, broadcasting studios and antenna towers where broadcasting transmitters and antenna
equipment are located. The majority of our office, studio and tower facilities are leased pursuant to long-term leases. We also own the buildings and/or land used for office, studio and tower facilities at certain of our television and/or radio
properties. We own substantially all of the equipment used in our television and radio broadcasting business. We believe that all of our facilities and equipment are adequate to conduct our present operations. We also lease certain facilities and
broadcast equipment in the operation of our business. See Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
We currently and from time to time are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business, but we are not currently a party
to any lawsuit or proceeding which, in the opinion of management, is likely to have a material adverse effect on us or our business.   
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
  Not applicable. 
  37 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  Our Class A common stock has been listed and traded on
The New York Stock Exchange since August 2, 2000 under the symbol “EVC.” The following table sets forth the range of high and low sales prices reported by The New York Stock Exchange for our Class A common stock for the periods
indicated:   












 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Year Ending December 31, 2010
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
3.55
  
  
$
2.36
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
3.49
  
  
$
1.92
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
2.40
  
  
$
1.51
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
2.62
  
  
$
1.92
  

 Year Ending December 31, 2011
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
2.75
  
  
$
2.01
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
2.78
  
  
$
1.79
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
2.10
  
  
$
0.95
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
1.91
  
  
$
0.75
  
   As of March 1, 2012,
there were approximately 202 holders of record of our Class A common stock. We believe that the number of beneficial owners of our Class A common stock substantially exceeds this number. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Performance Graph 
  The following graph, which was produced by Research Data
Group, Inc., depicts our quarterly performance for the period from December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2011, as measured by total stockholder return on our Class A common stock compared with the total return of the S&P 500
Index and the S&P Broadcasting & Cable TV Index. Upon request, we will furnish to stockholders a list of the component companies of such indices.   
We caution that the stock price performance shown in the graph below should not be considered indicative of potential future stock price
performance.    COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE
TOTAL RETURN*  Among Entravision Communications Corporation, the S&P 500 Index 
and the S&P Broadcasting Index   





*
Assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2006 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 
 




























  
  
Period Ending
 

Index
  
12/31/06
 
  
12/31/07
 
  
12/31/08
 
  
12/31/09
 
  
12/31/10
 
  
12/31/11
 

 Entravision Communications Corporation
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
95.26
  
  
 
18.98
  
  
 
41.36
  
  
 
31.27
  
  
 
19.64
  

 S&P 500
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
105.49
  
  
 
66.46
  
  
 
84.05
  
  
 
96.71
  
  
 
98.76
  

 S&P Broadcasting
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
77.24
  
  
 
43.09
  
  
 
76.18
  
  
 
98.63
  
  
 
114.38
  
   Source : SNL
Financial LC, Charlottesville, VA © 2012   
Dividend Policy    
We paid a cash dividend on our Class A, Class B, and Class U common stock of $0.06 per share on December 30, 2011. Our future
dividend policy will depend on factors considered relevant in the discretion of the Board of Directors, which may include, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition. In addition, the amended Credit Agreement and
the Indenture place certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on any class of our common stock. 
  39 


Table of Contents
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 
  The following table sets forth information regarding
outstanding options and shares reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2011:   
















 Plan Category
  
Number of Securitiesto be Issued uponExercise ofOutstanding Options,Warrants
and Rights
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price ofOutstanding Options,Warrants and 
Rights
 
 
Number of SecuritiesRemaining Available forFuture
IssuanceUnder Equity CompensationPlans (excluding SecuritiesReflected in the First Column)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:
  



 



 




 Incentive Stock Plans (1)
  
 
9,114,478
(2) 
 
$
6.68
(3) 
 
 
8,439,968
  

 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
  
 
N/A
(4) 
 
 
N/A
(4) 
 
 
3,997,062
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
9,114,478
  
 
$
6.68
  
 
 
12,437,030
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    


(1)
Represents information with respect to both our 2000 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan and our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. No options, warrants or rights have been issued
other than pursuant to these plans. 


(2)
Includes an aggregate of 1,909,753 restricted stock units. 


(3)
Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options; excludes restricted stock units. 


(4)
Our 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, permits full-time employees to have payroll deductions made to purchase shares of our Class A common stock during
specified purchase periods. The purchase price is the lower of 85% of (1) the fair market value per share of our Class A common stock on the last business day before the purchase period begins and (2) the fair market value per share
of our Class A common stock on the last business day of the purchase period. Consequently, the price at which shares will be purchased for the purchase period currently in effect is not known. We suspended the ESPP in 2009.
   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
   On November 1, 2006, our Board of
Directors approved a $100 million stock repurchase program. We were authorized to repurchase up to $100 million of our outstanding Class A common stock from time to time in open market transactions at prevailing market prices, block trades and
private repurchases. On April 7, 2008, our Board of Directors approved an additional $100 million stock repurchase program. We have repurchased a total of 20.8 million shares of Class A common stock for approximately $120.3 million
under both plans from inception through December 31, 2011. We did not repurchase any shares of Class A common stock during 2010 or 2011. Subject to certain exceptions, both the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement contain various
provisions that limit our ability to make future repurchases of shares of our common stock. 
  40 


Table of Contents
 


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
The selected financial data set forth below with respect to our consolidated statements of operations for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and with respect to our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements which are included elsewhere herein. The
consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements
not included herein. The consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 has been reclassified to reflect the outdoor operations as discontinued operations. 
  The selected consolidated financial data set forth below is
qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with both, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this annual report on Form 10-K and the consolidated
statements and the notes to those consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this annual report on Form 10-K.    (In thousands, except share and per share data) 
 
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Statements of Operations Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net revenue
  
$
194,396
  
 
$
200,476
  
 
$
189,231
  
 
$
232,335
  
 
$
250,046
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Direct operating expenses
  
 
88,590
  
 
 
84,802
  
 
 
83,902
  
 
 
100,801
  
 
 
99,608
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
36,511
  
 
 
38,046
  
 
 
38,278
  
 
 
43,709
  
 
 
44,267
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
15,669
  
 
 
18,416
  
 
 
14,918
  
 
 
17,117
  
 
 
17,353
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
18,653
  
 
 
19,229
  
 
 
21,033
  
 
 
23,412
  
 
 
22,565
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
 
 
36,109
  
 
 
50,648
  
 
 
610,456
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
159,423
  
 
 
196,602
  
 
 
208,779
  
 
 
795,495
  
 
 
183,793
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
34,973
  
 
 
3,874
  
 
 
(19,548
) 
 
 
(563,160
) 
 
 
66,253
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(37,650
) 
 
 
(24,429
) 
 
 
(27,948
) 
 
 
(43,093
) 
 
 
(49,405
) 

 Interest income
  
 
3
  
 
 
260
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
1,894
  
 
 
4,809
  

 Other income (loss)
  
 
687
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Gain (loss) on debt extinguishment
  
 
(423
) 
 
 
(987
) 
 
 
(4,716
) 
 
 
9,813
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
(2,410
) 
 
 
(21,282
) 
 
 
(51,753
) 
 
 
(594,546
) 
 
 
21,657
  

 Income tax (expense) benefit
  
 
(5,790
) 
 
 
3,376
  
 
 
1,917
  
 
 
70,086
  
 
 
18,047
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate and discontinued operations
  
 
(8,200
) 
 
 
(17,906
) 
 
 
(49,836
) 
 
 
(524,460
) 
 
 
39,704
  

 Equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(180
) 
 
 
(236
) 
 
 
(166
) 
 
 
336
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
(8,200
) 
 
 
(18,086
) 
 
 
(50,072
) 
 
 
(524,626
) 
 
 
40,040
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,930
) 
 
 
(83,157
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(8,200
) 
 
$
(18,086
) 
 
$
(50,072
) 
 
$
(528,556
) 
 
$
(43,117
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per share applicable to common stockholders, basic and diluted
  
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
(0.21
) 
 
$
(0.60
) 
 
$
(5.84
) 
 
$
(0.42
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash dividends per share, basic and diluted
  
$
0.06
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding, basic
  
 
85,051,066
  
 
 
84,488,930
  
 
 
83,972,709
  
 
 
90,560,685
  
 
 
102,382,307
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding, diluted
  
 
85,051,066
  
 
 
84,488,930
  
 
 
83,972,709
  
 
 
90,560,685
  
 
 
103,020,657
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  41 


Table of Contents
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 

 Other Data:
  



 



  



  



  




 Capital expenditures
  
$
8,218
  
 
$
7,177
  
  
$
6,961
  
  
$
16,860
  
  
$
14,284
  

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



 



  



  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
58,719
  
 
$
72,390
  
  
$
27,666
  
  
$
64,294
  
  
$
86,945
  

 Total assets
  
 
467,321
  
 
 
490,810
  
  
 
487,927
  
  
 
592,983
  
  
 
1,366,148
  

 Long-term debt, including current portion
  
 
379,662
  
 
 
396,119
  
  
 
363,949
  
  
 
406,523
  
  
 
484,078
  

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
$
(561
) 
 
$
10,357
  
  
$
25,235
  
  
$
72,094
  
  
$
657,810
  

  42 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    The following discussion of our consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and consolidated financial condition as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this document.
   OVERVIEW 
  We are a diversified Spanish-language media company with a
unique portfolio of television and radio assets that reach Hispanic consumers across the United States, as well as the border markets of Mexico. We operate in two reportable segments: television broadcasting and radio broadcasting. Our net revenue
for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $194.4 million. Of that amount, revenue generated by our television segment accounted for 68% and revenue generated by our radio segment accounted for 32%. 
  As of the date of filing this report, we own and/or operate
53 primary television stations located primarily in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas and Washington, D.C. We own and operate 48 radio stations (37 FM and 11 AM) located primarily in Arizona,
California, Colorado, Florida, Nevada, New Mexico and Texas. Our television and radio stations typically have local websites and other digital and interactive media platforms that provide users with news and information as well as a variety of other
products and services.    We generate revenue
primarily from sales of national and local advertising time on television and radio stations, and from retransmission consent agreements. Advertising rates are, in large part, based on each medium’s ability to attract audiences in demographic
groups targeted by advertisers. We recognize advertising revenue when commercials are broadcast. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers and, consequently, they may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalties. We pay
commissions to agencies for local, regional and national advertising. For contracts directly with agencies, we record net revenue from these agencies. Seasonal revenue fluctuations are common in the broadcasting industry and are due primarily to
variations in advertising expenditures by both local and national advertisers. In addition, advertising revenue is generally higher during even-numbered years resulting from political advertising and every four years resulting from advertising aired
during the World Cup (2010 and 2014).    We also
generate revenue from retransmission consent agreements that are entered into with MVPDs. We refer to such revenue as retransmission consent revenue, which represents payments from MVPDs for access to our television station signals so that they may
rebroadcast our signals and charge their subscribers for this programming. We recognize retransmission consent revenue when it is accrued pursuant to the agreements we have entered into with respect to such revenue. 
  Our primary expenses are employee compensation, including
commissions paid to our sales staff and amounts paid to our national representative firms, as well as expenses for marketing, promotion and selling, technical, local programming, engineering, and general and administrative. Our local programming
costs for television consist primarily of costs related to producing a local newscast in most of our markets.   
The comparability of our results between 2011 and 2010 is affected by acquisitions in those periods. In those years, we primarily acquired
new media properties in markets where we already owned existing media properties. While new media properties contribute to the financial results of their markets, we do not attempt to measure their effect as they typically are integrated into
existing operations. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Highlights    During 2011, we faced challenging comparisons to 2010, when we benefited from World Cup and political
advertising revenue and revenue from a large Los Angeles promotional event, whereas revenue from these and other similar periodically occurring revenue sources either did not occur or were not material in 2011. Net revenue decreased to $194.4
million, a decrease of $6.1 million, or 3%, from $200.5 million in 2010. Nevertheless, our audience shares remain strong in the nation’s most densely populated Hispanic markets.    Net revenue for our television segment decreased to $131.5 million in 2011, from $132.6 million in 2010. This
decrease of $1.1 million, or 1%, in net revenue, was primarily due to a decrease in national advertising, the non-occurrence of advertising revenue from the World Cup in 2011 compared to 2010 and a decrease in political advertising revenue, which
was not material in 2011, partially offset by an increase in retransmission consent revenue. We generated a total of $17.1 million of retransmission consent revenue in 2011. We anticipate that retransmission consent revenue for the full year 2012
will be greater than it was for the full year 2011 and will continue to be a growing source of net revenue in future periods.   
Net revenue for our radio segment decreased to $62.9 million in 2011, from $67.9 in 2010. This decrease of $5.0 million, or 7%, was
primarily due to the non-occurrence of advertising revenue from the World Cup in 2011 compared to 2010 and a decrease in political advertising revenue, which was not material in 2011.    Acquisitions and Dispositions    On January 3, 2011, we completed the acquisition of LER, a representation firm that sells national spots
and digital advertising to advertising agencies on our behalf and other clients. We previously owned 50% of LER, which was accounted for under the equity method. We decided to acquire the 50% of LER that we did not own in order to integrate
LER’s sales force with our radio operations. We paid $1.1 million for the remaining 50% of LER. As a result of our obtaining control of LER, our previously-held 50% interest was remeasured to its fair value of $1.1 million. The resulting gain
of $0.7 million is included in the line item ‘Other income (loss)’ on the consolidated statement of operations.   
We evaluated the transferred set of activities, assets, inputs and processes applied to these inputs in this acquisition and determined
that the acquisition did constitute a business. Currently, we are subject to certain limitations on acquisitions under the terms of the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement. Please see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below.
   In a strategic effort to focus our resources on
strengthening existing clusters and expanding into new U.S. Hispanic markets, we periodically review our portfolio of media properties and, from time to time, seek to divest assets in markets where we do not see the opportunity to grow to scale and
build out media clusters, subject to limitations contained in our amended Credit Agreement. Please see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below.   
Relationship with Univision   
Substantially all of our television stations are Univision- or TeleFutura-affiliated television stations. Our network affiliation
agreements with Univision provide certain of our owned stations the exclusive right to broadcast Univision’s primary network and TeleFutura network programming in their respective markets. These long-term affiliation agreements each expire in
2021, and can be renewed for multiple, successive two-year terms at Univision’s option, subject to our consent. Under the network affiliation agreements, we generally retain the right to sell approximately six minutes per hour of the available
advertising time on Univision’s primary network, and approximately four and a half minutes per hour of the available advertising time on the TeleFutura network. Those allocations are subject to adjustment from time to time by Univision.
   Under the network affiliation agreements,
Univision acts as our exclusive sales representative for the sale of national advertising on our Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliate television stations, and we pay certain sales representation fees to Univision relating to sales of all advertising
for broadcast on our Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliate television stations. 
  44 


Table of Contents
We also generate revenue under two marketing and sales agreements with Univision, which give
us the right through 2021 to manage the marketing and sales operations of Univision-owned TeleFutura and Univision affiliates in six markets – Albuquerque, Boston, Denver, Orlando, Tampa and Washington, D.C. 
  In August 2008, we entered into a proxy agreement with
Univision pursuant to which we granted to Univision the right to negotiate the terms of retransmission consent agreements for our Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals for a term of six years. Among other things, the proxy
agreement provides terms relating to compensation to be paid to us by Univision with respect to retransmission consent agreements entered into with MVPDs. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, retransmission consent revenue
accounted for approximately $17.1 million and $13.7 million, respectively.    Univision currently owns approximately 10% of our common stock on a fully-converted basis. As of December 31, 2005, Univision owned approximately 30% of our common stock on a fully-converted basis.
In connection with its merger with Hispanic Broadcasting Corporation in September 2003, Univision entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, pursuant to which Univision agreed, among other things, to ensure that its
percentage ownership of our company would not exceed 10% by March 26, 2009. In January 2006, we sold the assets of radio stations KBRG-FM and KLOK-AM, serving the San Francisco/San Jose, California market, to Univision for $90 million.
Univision paid the full amount of the purchase price in the form of approximately 12.6 million shares of our Class U common stock held by Univision. Subsequently, in 2006, we repurchased 7.2 million shares of our Class U common stock held
by Univision for $52.5 million. In February 2008, we repurchased 1.5 million shares of Class U common stock held by Univision for $10.4 million. In May 2009, we repurchased an additional 0.9 million shares of Class A common stock held
by Univision for $0.5 million.    The Company’s
Class U common stock held by Univision has limited voting rights and does not include the right to elect directors. However, as the holder of all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class U common stock, Univision currently has the right to
approve any merger, consolidation or other business combination involving the Company, any dissolution of the Company and any assignment of the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licenses for any of the Company’s Univision-affiliated
television stations. Each share of Class U common stock is automatically convertible into one share of the Company’s Class A common stock (subject to adjustment for stock splits, dividends or combinations) in connection with any transfer
to a third party that is not an affiliate of Univision. 
  45 


Table of Contents
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    Separate financial data for each of the Company’s operating segments is provided below. Segment operating
profit (loss) is defined as operating profit (loss) before corporate expenses, loss (gain) on sale of assets and impairment charge. The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on the following (in thousands): 
 
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
% Change2011 
to 2010
 
 
% Change2010 
to 2009
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
 
 

 Net Revenue
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
$
131,490
  
  
$
132,561
  
  
$
124,437
  
 
 
(1
)% 
 
 
7
% 

 Radio
  
 
62,906
  
  
 
67,915
  
  
 
64,794
  
 
 
(7
)% 
 
 
5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
194,396
  
  
 
200,476
  
  
 
189,231
  
 
 
(3
)% 
 
 
6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Direct operating expenses
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
 
53,789
  
  
 
52,882
  
  
 
52,424
  
 
 
2
% 
 
 
1
% 

 Radio
  
 
34,801
  
  
 
31,920
  
  
 
31,478
  
 
 
9
% 
 
 
1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
88,590
  
  
 
84,802
  
  
 
83,902
  
 
 
4
% 
 
 
1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
 
19,606
  
  
 
20,249
  
  
 
20,279
  
 
 
(3
)% 
 
 
(0
)% 

 Radio
  
 
16,905
  
  
 
17,797
  
  
 
17,999
  
 
 
(5
)% 
 
 
(1
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
36,511
  
  
 
38,046
  
  
 
38,278
  
 
 
(4
)% 
 
 
(1
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
 
15,189
  
  
 
15,489
  
  
 
15,680
  
 
 
(2
)% 
 
 
(1
)% 

 Radio
  
 
3,464
  
  
 
3,740
  
  
 
5,353
  
 
 
(7
)% 
 
 
(30
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
18,653
  
  
 
19,229
  
  
 
21,033
  
 
 
(3
)% 
 
 
(9
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Segment operating profit
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
 
42,906
  
  
 
43,941
  
  
 
36,054
  
 
 
(2
)% 
 
 
22
% 

 Radio
  
 
7,736
  
  
 
14,458
  
  
 
9,964
  
 
 
(46
)% 
 
 
45
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
50,642
  
  
 
58,399
  
  
 
46,018
  
 
 
(13
)% 
 
 
27
% 

 Corporate expenses
  
 
15,669
  
  
 
18,416
  
  
 
14,918
  
 
 
(15
)% 
 
 
23
% 

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
  
 
36,109
  
  
 
50,648
  
 
 
(100
)% 
 
 
(29
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Operating income (loss)
  
$
34,973
  
  
$
3,874
  
  
$
(19,548
) 
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated adjusted EBITDA (1)
  
$
55,475
  
  
$
63,635
  
  
$
55,312
  
 
 
(13
)% 
 
 
15
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Capital expenditures
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
$
6,494
  
  
$
6,196
  
  
$
5,839
  
 



 




 Radio
  
 
1,724
  
  
 
981
  
  
 
1,122
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
$
8,218
  
  
$
7,177
  
  
$
6,961
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Total assets
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
$
342,462
  
  
$
367,474
  
  
$
348,191
  
 



 




 Radio
  
 
124,859
  
  
 
123,336
  
  
 
139,736
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
$
467,321
  
  
$
490,810
  
  
$
487,927
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 



  


*
Percentage not meaningful. 


(1)
 Consolidated adjusted EBITDA means net income (loss) plus gain (loss) on sale of assets, depreciation and amortization, non-cash impairment charge,
non-cash stock-based compensation included in operating and corporate expenses, net interest expense, other income (loss), gain (loss) on debt extinguishment, income tax 
  46 


Table of Contents


 
 
(expense) benefit, equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate, non-cash losses and syndication programming amortization less syndication programming payments. We use the term
consolidated adjusted EBITDA because that measure is defined in our syndicated bank credit facility and does not include gain (loss) on sale of assets, depreciation and amortization, non-cash impairment charge, non-cash stock-based compensation, net
interest expense, other income (loss), gain (loss) on debt extinguishment, income tax (expense) benefit, equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate, non-cash losses and syndication programming amortization and does include syndication
programming payments.    Since
our ability to borrow from our 2010 Credit Facility is based on a consolidated adjusted EBITDA financial covenant, we believe that it is important to disclose consolidated adjusted EBITDA to our investors. Our 2010 Credit Facility contains certain
financial covenants relating to the maximum total leverage ratio, maximum revolving credit leverage ratio, minimum cash interest coverage ratio and minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The maximum total leverage ratio, or the ratio of consolidated
total debt to trailing-twelve-month consolidated adjusted EBITDA, affects our ability to borrow from our 2010 Credit Facility. Under the amended Credit Agreement, our maximum total leverage ratio may not exceed 7.00 to 1. The total leverage ratio
was as follows (in each case as of December 31): 2011, 6.9 to 1; 2010, 6.3 to 1. Therefore, we were in compliance with this covenant at each of those dates. 
  While many in the financial community and we consider
consolidated adjusted EBITDA to be important, it should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, other measures of liquidity and financial performance prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, such as cash flows from operating activities, operating income and net income. As consolidated adjusted EBITDA excludes non-cash gain (loss) on sale of assets, non-cash depreciation and amortization,
non-cash impairment charge, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, net interest expense, other income (loss), gain (loss) on debt extinguishment, income tax (expense) benefit, equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate, non-cash
losses and syndication programming amortization and includes syndication programming payments, consolidated adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations because it excludes and includes several important non-cash financial line items. Therefore, we
consider both non-GAAP and GAAP measures when evaluating our business. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA is also used to make executive compensation decisions. 
  47 


Table of Contents
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. The most directly comparable GAAP
financial measure to consolidated adjusted EBITDA is cash flows from operating activities. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cash flows from operating activities follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Consolidated adjusted EBITDA (1)
  
$
55,475
  
 
$
63,635
  
 
$
55,312
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(37,650
) 
 
 
(24,429
) 
 
 
(27,948
) 

 Interest income
  
 
3
  
 
 
260
  
 
 
459
  

 Gain (loss) on debt extinguishment
  
 
(423
) 
 
 
(987
) 
 
 
(4,716
) 

 Income tax (expense) benefit
  
 
(5,790
) 
 
 
3,376
  
 
 
1,917
  

 Amortization of syndication contracts
  
 
(1,482
) 
 
 
(1,159
) 
 
 
(1,981
) 

 Payments on syndication contracts
  
 
1,976
  
 
 
2,724
  
 
 
2,836
  

 Non-cash stock-based compensation included in direct operating expenses
  
 
(229
) 
 
 
(454
) 
 
 
(854
) 

 Non-cash stock-based compensation included in selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
(812
) 
 
 
(897
) 
 
 
(1,142
) 

 Non-cash stock-based compensation included in corporate expenses
  
 
(1,302
) 
 
 
(1,619
) 
 
 
(2,038
) 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(18,653
) 
 
 
(19,229
) 
 
 
(21,033
) 

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(36,109
) 
 
 
(50,648
) 

 Other income (loss)
  
 
687
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Reserve for note receivable
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,018
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(180
) 
 
 
(236
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
(8,200
) 
 
 
(18,086
) 
 
 
(50,072
) 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
18,653
  
 
 
19,229
  
 
 
21,033
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
 
 
36,109
  
 
 
50,648
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
4,565
  
 
 
(4,342
) 
 
 
(2,351
) 

 Amortization of debt issue costs
  
 
2,207
  
 
 
1,140
  
 
 
402
  

 Amortization of syndication contracts
  
 
1,482
  
 
 
1,159
  
 
 
1,981
  

 Payments on syndication contracts
  
 
(1,976
) 
 
 
(2,724
) 
 
 
(2,836
) 

 Equity in net (income) loss of nonconsolidated affiliate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
236
  

 Non-cash stock-based compensation
  
 
2,343
  
 
 
2,970
  
 
 
4,034
  

 Other (income) loss
  
 
(687
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Loss (gain) on debt extinguishment
  
 
423
  
 
 
934
  
 
 
945
  

 Reserve for note receivable
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,018
  
 
 
—  
  

 Change in fair value of interest rate swap agreements
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(12,188
) 
 
 
(6,979
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effect of acquisitions and dispositions:
  



 



 




 (Increase) decrease in restricted cash
  
 
809
  
 
 
(809
) 
 
 
—  
  

 (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable
  
 
(574
) 
 
 
2,091
  
 
 
570
  

 (Increase) decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets
  
 
336
  
 
 
310
  
 
 
(484
) 

 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
(1,770
) 
 
 
8,134
  
 
 
1,662
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from operating activities
  
$
17,611
  
 
$
37,125
  
 
$
18,789
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   (footnotes on preceding page) 
  48 


Table of Contents
Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 
  Consolidated Operations 
  Net Revenue. Net revenue decreased to $194.4 million
for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $200.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $6.1 million. Of the overall decrease, $5.0 million came from our radio segment and was primarily attributable to the
non-occurrence of advertising revenue from the World Cup in 2011 compared to 2010 and a decrease in political advertising revenue, which was not material in 2011. Additionally, $1.1 million of the overall decrease came from our television segment
and was primarily attributable to a decrease in national advertising, the non-occurrence of advertising revenue from the World Cup in 2011 compared to 2010 and a decrease in political advertising revenue, which was not material in 2011, partially
offset by an increase in retransmission consent revenue.    We currently anticipate that net revenue will increase for the full year 2012, primarily due to increased political advertising revenue and increased retransmission consent revenue. However, we believe
that we will continue to face a challenging advertising environment in 2012 as our advertising customers continue to make difficult choices in the current uncertain economic environment.    Direct Operating Expenses. Direct operating expenses increased to $88.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 from $84.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $3.8 million. Of the overall increase, $2.9 million came from our radio segment and was primarily attributable to an increase in salary expense as a
result of the partial restoration of employee salaries in 2011 and expenses associated with LER. Additionally, $0.9 million of the overall increase came from our television segment and was primarily attributable to an increase in salary expense as a
result of the partial restoration of employee salaries in 2011, partially offset by a decrease in expenses associated with the decrease in net revenue. We had implemented salary reductions as a cost-savings strategy during the first quarter of 2009.
As a percentage of net revenue, direct operating expenses increased to 46% for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 42% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Direct operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased because
direct operating expenses increased while net revenue decreased.    We believe that direct operating expenses will increase during 2012 primarily as a result of employee salary increases during the first quarter of 2012 and expenses associated with the anticipated
increase in net revenue. We had implemented salary reductions as a cost-savings strategy during the first quarter of 2009.   
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to $36.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2011 from $38.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $1.5 million. Of the overall decrease, $0.9 million came from our radio segment and was primarily attributable to a decrease in bad debt
expense, partially offset by an increase in salary expense as a result of the partial restoration of employee salaries in 2011. Additionally, $0.6 million of the overall decrease came from our television segment and was primarily attributable to a
decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by an increase in salary expense as a result of the partial restoration of employee salaries in 2011. We had implemented salary reductions as a cost-savings strategy during the first quarter of
2009. As a percentage of net revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant at 19% for each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
  We believe that selling, general and administrative expenses
will increase during 2012 primarily as a result of employee salary increases during the first quarter of 2012 and expenses associated with the anticipated increase in net revenue. We had implemented salary reductions as a cost-savings strategy
during the first quarter of 2009.    Corporate
Expenses. Corporate expenses decreased to $15.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $18.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $2.7 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to higher
expenses in 2010 due to the creation of a reserve for a $3.0 million note 
  49 


Table of Contents

receivable and accrued interest relating to the sale of our publishing segment in 2003, partially offset by the increase in interactive expenses and partial restoration of employee salaries in
2011. As a percentage of net revenue, corporate expenses decreased to 8% for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 9% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Corporate expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased because the decrease in
corporate expenses outpaced the decrease in net revenue.    We believe that corporate expenses will increase during 2012 primarily as a result of employee salary increases during the first quarter of 2012. We had implemented salary reductions as a cost-savings
strategy during the first quarter of 2009.   
Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization decreased to $18.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011
from $19.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $0.5 million. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in depreciation as certain assets are now fully depreciated. 
  Impairment Charge. Continuing operations includes an
impairment charge of $36.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, which was a result of a $9.9 million impairment of goodwill in our radio segment, a $2.6 million impairment of our radio FCC licenses and a $23.6 million impairment of our
television FCC licenses.    Operating Income.
As a result of the above factors, operating income was $35.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, after giving effect to the impairment charge in 2010. 
  Interest Expense. Interest expense increased to $37.7
million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $24.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $13.3 million. The increase in interest expense was primarily attributable to the change in the fair value of our interest
rate swap agreements during the year ended December 31, 2010. Those interest rate swap agreements were terminated in July 2010.   
Other Income. We recorded other income of $0.7 million related to the remeasurement of our previously-held 50% interest in LER to
fair value in connection with our acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of LER during the year ended December 31, 2011.   
Loss on Debt Extinguishment. We recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $0.4 million related to unamortized finance costs and
bond discount associated with the repurchase of Notes during the year ended December 31, 2011. We recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $1.0 million related to unamortized finance costs under our previous amended syndicated bank credit
facility agreement for the year ended December 31, 2010.    Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $5.8 million. The effective income tax rate was higher than our expected statutory rate of approximately 38% due
to changes in the valuation allowance and deductions attributable to indefinite-lived intangible assets. Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $3.4 million. The effective income tax rate was lower than our expected
statutory rate of approximately 38% due to changes in the valuation allowance and deductions attributable to indefinite-lived intangibles.   
As of December 31, 2011, we believe that our deferred tax assets will not be fully realized in the future and we are providing a full
valuation allowance against those deferred tax assets. In determining our deferred tax assets subject to a valuation allowance, we excluded the deferred tax liabilities attributable to indefinite-lived intangibles. 
  50 


Table of Contents
Segment Operations 
  Television 
  Net Revenue. Net revenue in our television segment
decreased to $131.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $132.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $1.1 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in national advertising, the
non-occurrence of advertising revenue from the World Cup in 2011 compared to 2010 and a decrease in political advertising revenue, which was not material in 2011, partially offset by an increase in retransmission consent revenue. We generated a
total of $17.1 million and $13.7 million in retransmission consent revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We anticipate that retransmission consent revenue for the full year 2012 will be greater than it was for
the full year 2011 and will continue to be a growing source of net revenues in future periods.    Direct Operating Expenses. Direct operating expenses in our television segment increased to $53.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $52.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010, an increase of $0.9 million. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in salary expense as a result of the partial restoration of employee salaries in 2011, partially offset by a decrease in expenses associated
with the decrease in net revenue. We had implemented salary reductions as a cost-savings strategy during the first quarter of 2009.   
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses in our television segment decreased to
$19.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $20.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $0.6 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by an
increase in salary expense as a result of the partial restoration of employee salaries in 2011. We had implemented salary reductions as a cost-savings strategy during the first quarter of 2009. 
  Radio 
  Net Revenue. Net revenue in our radio segment
decreased to $62.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $67.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $5.0 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to the non-occurrence of advertising revenue from
the World Cup in 2011 compared to 2010 and a decrease in political advertising revenue, which was not material in 2011.   
Direct Operating Expenses. Direct operating expenses in our radio segment increased to $34.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 from $31.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $2.9 million. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in salary expense as a result of the partial restoration of employee salaries in
2011 and expenses associated with LER. We had implemented salary reductions as a cost-savings strategy during the first quarter of 2009.   
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses in our radio segment decreased to $16.9
million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $17.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $0.9 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by an increase in
salary expense as a result of the partial restoration of employee salaries in 2011. We had implemented salary reductions as a cost-savings strategy during the first quarter of 2009.    Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 
  Consolidated Operations 
  Net Revenue. Net revenue increased to $200.5 million
for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $189.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $11.3 million. Of the overall increase, $8.2 million came from our television segment and was primarily attributable to revenue
from political advertising, retransmission consent revenue, and revenue from World Cup advertising. Additionally, $3.1 million of the overall increase came from our radio segment and was primarily attributable to revenue from World Cup, political
and census advertising. 
  51 


Table of Contents
Direct Operating Expenses. Direct operating expenses increased to $84.8 million for
the year ended December 31, 2010 from $83.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $0.9 million. Of the overall increase, $0.5 million came from our television segment and was primarily attributable to an increase in
national representation fees and other expenses associated with the increase in net revenue, partially offset by a decrease in salary expense due to reductions in personnel and salary reductions implemented in 2009 and a decrease in syndication
amortization. Additionally, $0.4 million of the overall increase came from our radio segment and was primarily attributable to an increase in national representation fees and an increase in ratings expense, partially offset by a decrease in salary
expense due to reductions in personnel and salary reductions implemented in 2009. As a percentage of net revenue, direct operating expenses decreased to 42% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 44% for the year ended December 31,
2009. Direct operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased because the increase in net revenue outpaced the increase in direct operating expenses.   
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to $38.0 million for the year
ended December 31, 2010 from $38.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $0.3 million. The overall decrease, $0.2 million came from our radio segment and was primarily attributable to a decrease in salary expense due
to reductions in personnel and salary reductions implemented in 2009. Additionally, $0.1 million of the overall decrease came from our television segment and was primarily attributable to a decrease in salary expense due to reductions in personnel
and salary reductions implemented in 2009. As a percentage of net revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 19% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 20% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Selling, general
and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased because selling, general and administrative expenses decreased while net revenue increased.   
Corporate Expenses. Corporate expenses increased to $18.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $14.9 million for
the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $3.5 million. The increase was primarily attributable to creating a reserve for a $3.0 million note receivable, together with accrued interest, relating to the sale of our publishing segment in
2003. Excluding the note receivable reserve and accrued interest, corporate expenses increased to $15.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 14.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $0.5 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to indirect expenses relating to the issuance of the Notes. As a percentage of net revenue, corporate expenses increased to 9% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 8% for the year ended
December 31, 2009. Corporate expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased because the increase in corporate expenses outpaced the increase in net revenue. 
  Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and
amortization decreased to $19.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $1.8 million. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in radio depreciation as certain
radio assets are now fully depreciated.   
Impairment Charge. Continuing operations includes an impairment charge of $36.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010,
which was a result of a $9.9 million impairment of goodwill in our radio segment, a $2.6 million impairment of our radio FCC licenses and a $23.6 million impairment of our television FCC licenses. Continuing operations includes an impairment charge
of $50.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, which was a result of a $47.9 million impairment of our radio FCC licenses and a $2.7 million impairment of our television FCC licenses. 
  Operating Income. As a result of the above factors,
operating income was $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to operating loss of $19.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. 
  Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased to $24.4
million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $27.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $3.5 million. The decrease in interest expense was primarily attributable to the change in the fair value of our interest
rate swap agreements. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Loss on Debt Extinguishment. We recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $1.0
million related to unamortized finance costs under our previous amended syndicated bank credit facility agreement for the year ended December 31, 2010. We recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $4.7 million for fees, unamortized finance
costs and interest rate swap agreement termination costs associated with the amendment to our previous syndicated bank credit facility agreement for the year ended December 31, 2009.    Income Tax Expense. Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $3.4 million. The
effective income tax rate was lower than our expected statutory rate of approximately 38% due to changes in the valuation allowance and deductions attributable to indefinite-lived intangibles. Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31,
2009 was $1.9 million. The effective income tax rate was 3.6%, which reflects a decrease to statutory rate of approximately 38% due to an increase in the valuation allowance. 
  As of December 31, 2010, we believe that our deferred
tax assets will not be fully realized in the future and we are providing a full valuation allowance against those deferred tax assets. In determining our deferred tax assets subject to a valuation allowance, we excluded the deferred tax liabilities
attributable to indefinite-lived intangibles.    Segment Operations    Television    Net Revenue. Net revenue in our television segment increased to $132.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $124.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase
of $8.2 million. The increase was primarily attributable to revenue from political advertising, retransmission consent revenue, and revenue from World Cup advertising. We generated a total of $13.7 million and $9.5 million in retransmission consent
revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We anticipate that retransmission consent revenue for the full year 2011 will be greater than it was for the full year 2010 and will continue to be a growing source of net
revenues in future periods.    Direct Operating
Expenses. Direct operating expenses in our television segment increased to $52.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $52.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $0.5 million. The increase was
primarily attributable to an increase in national representation fees and other expenses associated with the increase in net revenue, partially offset by a decrease in salary expense due to reductions in personnel and salary reductions implemented
in 2009 and a decrease in syndication amortization.   
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses in our television segment decreased to
$20.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $20.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $0.1 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in salary expense due to reductions in personnel
and salary reductions implemented in 2009.   Radio     Net Revenue. Net revenue in our radio segment increased to $67.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $64.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $3.1
million. The increase was primarily attributable to revenue from World Cup, political and census advertising.   
Direct Operating Expenses. Direct operating expenses in our radio segment increased to $31.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 from $31.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $0.4 million. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in national representation fees and an increase in ratings expense, partially
offset by a decrease in salary expense due to reductions in personnel and salary reductions implemented in 2009. 
  53 


Table of Contents
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative
expenses in our radio segment decreased to $17.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $18.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $0.2 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in
salary expense due to reductions in personnel and salary reductions implemented in 2009.    Liquidity and Capital Resources    While we have a history of operating losses in some periods and operating income in other periods, we also have a history of generating significant positive cash flows from our operations. Although we had
net losses of approximately $8.2 million, $18.1 million and $50.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, we had positive cash flow from operations of $17.6 million, $37.1 million and $18.8 million for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures and payments of principal and interest on outstanding indebtedness, with cash on hand and cash flows from
operations. We currently anticipate that funds generated from operations, cash on hand and available borrowings under our 2010 Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months.
   Notes 
  On July 27, 2010, we completed the offering and sale of
$400 million aggregate principal amount of our Notes. The Notes were issued at a discount of 98.722% of their principal amount and mature on August 1, 2017. Interest on the Notes accrues at a rate of 8.75% per annum from the date of
original issuance and is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2011. We received net proceeds of approximately $388 million from the sale of the Notes (net of bond discount
of $5 million and fees of $7 million), which were used to pay all indebtedness outstanding under our previous syndicated bank credit facility, terminate the related interest rate swap agreements, pay fees and expenses related to offering of the
Notes and for general corporate purposes.    During
the fourth quarter of 2011, we purchased Notes on the open market with a principal amount of $16.2 million. We recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $0.4 million primarily due to the write off of unamortized finance costs and unamortized bond
discount.    The Notes are guaranteed on a senior
secured basis by all of our existing and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries (the “Note Guarantors”). The Notes and the guarantees rank equal in right of payment to all of our and the guarantors’ existing and future senior
indebtedness and senior in right of payment to all of our and the Note Guarantors’ existing and future subordinated indebtedness. In addition, the Notes and the guarantees are effectively junior: (i) to our and the Note Guarantors’
indebtedness secured by assets that are not collateral; (ii) pursuant to an Intercreditor Agreement entered into at the same time that we entered into the 2010 Credit Facility described below; and (iii) to all of the liabilities of any of
our existing and future subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Notes, to the extent of the assets of those subsidiaries. The Notes are secured by substantially all of our assets, as well as the pledge of the stock of substantially all of our
subsidiaries, including the special purpose subsidiary formed to hold the Company’s FCC licenses.   
At our option, we may redeem:   


 
•
 
 prior to August 1, 2013, on one or more occasions, up to 10% of the original principal amount of the Notes during each 12-month period beginning
on August 1, 2010, at a redemption price equal to 103% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest;   


 
•
 
 prior to August 1, 2013, on one or more occasions, up to 35% of the original principal amount of the Notes with the net proceeds from certain
equity offerings, at a redemption price of 108.750% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest; provided that: (i) at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of all Notes issued under the Indenture remains
outstanding immediately after such redemption; and (ii) such redemption occurs within 60 days of the date of closing of any such equity offering; 
  54 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 prior to August 1, 2013, some or all of the Notes may be redeemed at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus a
“make-whole” premium plus accrued and unpaid interest; and   


 
•
 
 on or after August 1, 2013, some or all of the Notes may be redeemed at a redemption price of: (i) 106.563% of the principal amount of the
Notes if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1, 2013; (ii) 104.375% of the principal amount of the Notes if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1, 2014; (iii) 102.188% of the
principal amount of the Notes if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1, 2015; and (iv) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes if redeemed on or after August 1, 2016, in each case plus accrued and unpaid
interest.    In addition, upon a
change of control, as defined in the Indenture, we must make an offer to repurchase all Notes then outstanding, at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In
addition, we may at any time and from time to time purchase Notes in the open market or otherwise.    Upon an event of default, as defined in the Indenture, the Notes will become due and payable: (i) immediately without further notice if such event of default arises from events of bankruptcy or
insolvency of the Company, any Note Guarantor or any restricted subsidiary; or (ii) upon a declaration of acceleration of the Notes in writing to the Company by the Trustee or holders representing 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the
Notes then outstanding, if an event of default occurs and is continuing. The Indenture contains additional provisions that are customary for an agreement of this type, including indemnification by us and the Note Guarantors. 
  2010 Credit Facility 
  On July 27, 2010, we also entered into a new $50
million revolving credit facility (our “2010 Credit Facility”) and terminated the amended syndicated bank credit facility agreement. Our 2010 Credit Facility consists of a three-year $50 million revolving credit facility that expires on
July 27, 2013, which includes a $3 million sub-facility for letters of credit. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $0.7 million in outstanding letters of credit. In addition, we may increase the aggregate principal amount of our
2010 Credit Facility by up to an additional $50 million, subject to our satisfying certain conditions.   
Borrowings under our 2010 Credit Facility bear interest at either: (i) the Base Rate (as defined in the agreement governing our 2010
Credit Facility (the “Credit Agreement” and as amended, the “amended Credit Agreement”) plus a margin of 3.375% per annum; or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin of 4.375% per annum. We have not drawn on our 2010 Credit
Facility.    Our 2010 Credit Facility is guaranteed
on a senior secured basis by all of our existing and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries (the “Credit Guarantors”), which are also the Note Guarantors (collectively, the “Guarantors”). Our 2010 Credit Facility is secured on
a first priority basis by our and the Credit Guarantors’ assets, which also secure the Notes. Our borrowings, if any, under our 2010 Credit Facility rank senior to the Notes upon the terms set forth in the Intercreditor Agreement that we
entered into in connection with our 2010 Credit Facility.    The amended Credit Agreement also requires compliance with certain financial covenants, relating to total leverage ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio, cash interest coverage ratio and revolving credit
facility leverage ratio.    Upon an event of
default, as defined in the amended Credit Agreement, the lenders may, among other things, suspend or terminate their obligation to make further loans to us and/or declare all amounts then 
  55 


Table of Contents

outstanding under our 2010 Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable. The amended Credit Agreement also contains additional provisions that are customary for an agreement of this type,
including indemnification by us and the Credit Guarantors.    In connection with our entering into the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement, we and the Guarantors also entered into the following agreements: 
 


 
•
 
 A Security Agreement, pursuant to which we and the Guarantors each granted a first priority security interests in the collateral securing the Notes and
our 2010 Credit Facility for the benefit of the holders of the Notes and the lenders under our 2010 Credit Facility; and   


 
•
 
 An Intercreditor Agreement, in order to define the relative rights of the holders of the Notes and the lenders under our 2010 Credit Facility with
respect to the collateral securing our and the Guarantors’ respective obligations under the Notes and our 2010 Credit Facility; and   


 
•
 
 A Registration Rights Agreement, pursuant to which we registered the Notes and successfully conducted an exchange offering for the Notes in
unregistered form, as originally issued.    Subject to certain exceptions, both the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement contain various provisions that limit our ability, among other things, to: 
 


 
•
 
 incur additional indebtedness;   


 
•
 
 incur liens;   


 
•
 
 merge, dissolve, consolidate, or sell all or substantially all of our assets; 
 


 
•
 
 make certain investments;   


 
•
 
 make certain restricted payments;   


 
•
 
 declare certain dividends or distributions or repurchase shares of our capital stock; 
 


 
•
 
 enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and 
 


 
•
 
 change the nature of our business.   
In addition, the Indenture contains various provisions that limit our ability to: 
 


 
•
 
 apply the proceeds from certain asset sales other than in accordance with the terms of the Indenture; and 
 


 
•
 
 restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries. 
  In addition, the amended Credit Agreement contains various
provisions that limit our ability to:   


 
•
 
 dispose of certain assets; and   


 
•
 
 amend our or any guarantor’s organizational documents of the Company in any way that is materially adverse to the lenders under our 2010 Credit
Facility.    Moreover, if we fail
to comply with any of the financial covenants or ratios under our 2010 Credit Facility, our lenders could:   


 
•
 
 Elect to declare all amounts borrowed to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; and/or
  


 
•
 
 Terminate their commitments, if any, to make further extensions of credit.    In addition, if our total leverage ratio exceeds 6.50 to 1.00 as of the end of the most recently completed
fiscal quarter, the maximum principal outstanding amount of all loans under our 2010 Credit Facility cannot exceed $25.0 million. In the event that the maximum principal outstanding amount exceeds $25.0 million in that case, we must immediately
prepay outstanding revolving loans in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess. 
  56 


Table of Contents
In February 2012, we entered into an amendment to our Credit Agreement. Pursuant to this
amendment, among other things, our total leverage ratio may not exceed 7.00 to 1 in future periods. In addition, on or after March 31, 2012, the financial covenants shall not be applicable unless any loans are outstanding on the relevant date.
The amendment also contains other provisions that are customary for an agreement of this type.    Debt and Equity Financing    On November 1, 2006, our Board of Directors approved a $100 million stock repurchase program. We were authorized to repurchase up to $100 million of our outstanding Class A common stock from
time to time in open market transactions at prevailing market prices, block trades and private repurchases. On April 7, 2008, our Board of Directors approved an additional $100 million stock repurchase program. We have repurchased a total of
20.8 million shares of Class A common stock for approximately $120.3 million under both plans from inception through December 31, 2011. We did not repurchase any shares of Class A common stock during 2010 or 2011. Subject to
certain exceptions, both the Indenture and the amended Credit Agreement contain various provisions that limit our ability to make future repurchases of shares of our common stock. 
  Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA 
  Consolidated adjusted EBITDA (as defined below) decreased to
$55.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $63.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $8.1 million, or 13%. As a percentage of net revenue, consolidated adjusted EBITDA decreased to 29% for the year
ended December 31, 2011 from 32% for the year ended December 31, 2010.    Consolidated adjusted EBITDA means net income (loss) plus gain (loss) on sale of assets, depreciation and amortization, non-cash impairment charge, non-cash stock-based compensation included in operating
and corporate expenses, net interest expense, other income (loss), gain (loss) on debt extinguishment, income tax (expense) benefit, equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate, non-cash losses and syndication programming amortization
less syndication programming payments. We use the term consolidated adjusted EBITDA because that measure is defined in our 2010 Credit Facility and does not include gain (loss) on sale of assets, depreciation and amortization, non-cash impairment
charge, non-cash stock-based compensation, net interest expense, other income (loss), gain (loss) on debt extinguishment, income tax (expense) benefit, equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate, non-cash losses and syndication
programming amortization and does include syndication programming payments.    Since our ability to borrow from our 2010 Credit Facility is based on a consolidated adjusted EBITDA financial covenant, we believe that it is important to disclose consolidated adjusted EBITDA to our
investors. Our 2010 Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants relating to the maximum total leverage ratio, maximum revolving credit leverage ratio, minimum cash interest coverage ratio and minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The maximum
total leverage ratio, or the ratio of consolidated total debt to trailing-twelve-month consolidated adjusted EBITDA, affects our ability to borrow from our 2010 Credit Facility. Under our 2010 Credit Facility, our maximum total leverage ratio may
not exceed 7.00 to 1. The total leverage ratio was as follows (in each case as of December 31): 2011, 6.9 to 1; 2010, 6.3 to 1. Therefore, we were in compliance with this covenant at each of those dates. 
  While many in the financial community and we consider
consolidated adjusted EBITDA to be important, it should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, other measures of liquidity and financial performance prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, such as cash flows from operating activities, operating income and net income. As consolidated adjusted EBITDA excludes non-cash gain (loss) on sale of assets, non-cash depreciation and amortization,
non-cash impairment charge, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, net interest expense, other income (loss), gain (loss) on debt extinguishment, income tax (expense) benefit, equity in net income (loss) of

  57 


Table of Contents

nonconsolidated affiliate, non-cash losses and syndication programming amortization and includes syndication programming payments, consolidated adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations because it
excludes and includes several important non-cash financial line items. Therefore, we consider both non-GAAP and GAAP measures when evaluating our business. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA is also used to make executive compensation decisions.
   Consolidated adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP
measure. For a reconciliation of consolidated adjusted EBITDA to cash flows from operating activities, its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see page 48. 
  Cash Flow 
  Net cash flow provided by operating activities was $17.6
million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to net cash flow provided by operating activities of $37.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We had net loss of $8.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our
net loss for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily the result of non-cash expenses, including depreciation and amortization expense of $18.7 million. We had a net loss of $18.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, which
was primarily a result of non-cash expenses, including an impairment charge of $36.1 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $19.2 million. We expect to continue to have positive cash flow from operating activities for the 2012 year.
   Net cash flow used in investing activities was
$9.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to net cash flow used in investing activities of $8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we spent $7.8 million on net
capital expenditures, $0.7 million related to the purchase of an FCC license and $0.6 million related to the acquisition of LER. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we spent $7.4 million on net capital expenditures and $1.3 on intangible
assets. We anticipate that our capital expenditures will be approximately $9 million during the full year 2012. The amount of our anticipated capital expenditures may change based on future changes in business plans, our financial condition and
general economic conditions. We expect to fund capital expenditures with cash on hand and net cash flow from operations.   
Net cash flow used in financing activities was $22.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to net cash flow provided
by financing activities of $16.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we made debt payments of $17.1 million and a dividend payment of $5.1 million. During the year ended December 31,
2010, we received $387.9 million of proceeds from the sale of the Notes (net of bond discount of $5.1 million and fees of $7.0 million), paid $367.0 million to repay all indebtedness outstanding under our previous syndicated bank credit facility and
related interest rate swap agreements and paid an additional $4.9 million in expenses related to the Notes.  
In order to increase our high definition programming in the future, we intend to continue construction at our production control
facilities in 2012. We currently expect that the total cost of this high definition upgrade at our local studio and control facilities will be approximately $1 million. We intend to finance the high definition upgrade by using cash on hand and net
cash flow from operations.    Commitments and
Contractual Obligations    We have
agreements with certain media research and ratings providers, expiring at various dates through December 2015, to provide television and radio audience measurement services. We lease facilities and broadcast equipment under various operating lease
agreements with various terms and conditions, expiring at various dates through November 2050. 
  58 


Table of Contents
Our material contractual obligations at December 31, 2011 are as follows (in
thousands):   
























 
  
Payments Due by Period
 

 Contractual Obligations
  
Totalamountscommitted
 
  
Lessthan1 year
 
  
1-3 years
 
  
3-5 years
 
  
Morethan5 
years
 

 Notes and related interest (1)
  
$
570,736
  
  
$
33,582
  
  
$
67,164
  
  
$
67,164
  
  
$
402,826
  

 Media research and ratings providers (2)
  
 
25,601
  
  
 
6,159
  
  
 
12,751
  
  
 
6,691
  
  
 
—  
  

 Operating leases and other material non-cancelable contractual obligations (2) (3)
  
 
53,898
  
  
 
8,771
  
  
 
14,336
  
  
 
11,006
  
  
 
19,785
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total contractual obligations
  
$
650,235
  
  
$
48,512
  
  
$
94,251
  
  
$
84,861
  
  
$
422,611
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
These amounts represent estimated future cash interest payments related to our Notes. Future interest payments could differ materially from amounts indicated in the
table due to future operational and financing needs, market factors and other currently unanticipated events. 


(2)
Does not include month-to-month leases. 


(3)
Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011, we are unable to make
reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $0.9 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions have been excluded from the table above. 
  We have also entered into employment agreements with certain
of our key employees, including Walter F. Ulloa, Philip C. Wilkinson, Jeffery A. Liberman and Christopher T. Young. Our obligations under these agreements are not reflected in the table above.    Other than lease commitments, legal contingencies incurred in the normal course of business and employment
contracts for key employees, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries or any interests in or relationships with any variable-interest entities that are not included in
our consolidated financial statements.    Application of Critical
Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates   
Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are the most important to the accurate portrayal of our financial condition and
results of operations. Critical accounting policies require management’s subjective judgment and may produce materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. We have discussed the development and selection of these
critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed and approved our related disclosure in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.    Goodwill 
  We believe that the accounting estimates related to the fair
value of our reporting units and indefinite life intangible assets and our estimates of the useful lives of our long-lived assets are “critical accounting estimates” because: (1) goodwill and other intangible assets are our most
significant assets, and (2) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on the assets reported on our balance sheet, as well as on our results of operations, could be material. Accordingly, the assumptions about future cash flows on
the assets under evaluation are critical    Goodwill
represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in each business combination. We test our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually
on the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter, or more frequently if certain events or certain changes in circumstances indicate they may be impaired. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, we must make a
series of assumptions about such things as the estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of these assets. 
  59 


Table of Contents
Goodwill impairment testing is a two-step process. The first step is a comparison of the
fair values of our reporting units to their respective carrying amounts. We have determined that each of our operating segments is a reporting unit. If a reporting unit’s estimated fair value is equal to or greater than that reporting
unit’s carrying value, no impairment of goodwill exists and the testing is complete at the first step. However, if the reporting unit’s carrying amount is greater than the estimated fair value, the second step must be completed to measure
the amount of impairment of goodwill, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with its carrying amount to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. If the
implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, then an impairment exists and an impairment loss is recorded for the amount of the difference. 
  We elected early adoption of Accounting Standards Update
(“ASU”) No. 2011-8, “Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (“ASU 2011-8”), for the year ended December 31, 2011. Under this guidance, we would not be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless
we determine, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. We performed a qualitative assessment of the television reporting unit in accordance with ASU 2011-8 and
determined that it was more likely than not that its fair value was greater than its carrying amount. We did not reach a definitive conclusion on the radio reporting unit under ASU 2011-8 so we performed the first step of goodwill impairment testing
and compared the fair value of the radio reporting unit to its carrying amount.    As of December 31, 2011, we had $35.9 million of goodwill in our television reporting unit. We performed a qualitative assessment of the television reporting unit and determined that it was more
likely than not that its fair value was greater than its carrying amount so we were not required to calculate the fair value of the television reporting unit. In the prior year, the fair value of our television reporting unit was greater than the
carrying value by 78%. Therefore, we do not believe that we are at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test in our television reporting unit for at least the foreseeable future. If it is more likely than not that its fair value is
less than its carrying amount in future periods, we would, at that time, have to proceed to the two-step process of goodwill impairment testing.   
As of December 31, 2011, we had $0.7 million of goodwill in our radio reporting unit. The fair value of our radio reporting unit was
greater than the carrying value by 42%. If the fair value of our radio reporting unit is less than the carrying value in future periods, we would, at that time, have to proceed to the second step of the goodwill impairment testing process.
   The estimated fair value of goodwill is
determined by using a combination of a market approach and an income approach. The market approach estimates fair value by applying sales, earnings and cash flow multiples to each reporting unit’s operating performance. The multiples are
derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics to our reporting units. The market approach requires us to make a series of assumptions, such as selecting comparable companies and comparable
transactions and transaction premiums. The current economic conditions have led to a decrease in the number of comparable transactions, which makes the market approach of comparable transactions and transaction premiums more difficult to estimate
than in previous years.    The income approach
estimates fair value based on our estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk of that
reporting unit. The income approach also requires us to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin projections and terminal value multiples. We estimated our discount rates on a blended rate of return
considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to us. We also
estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. We estimated our revenue projections and profit margin projections based on internal forecasts about future performance.

  60 


Table of Contents
The continuation or worsening of current economic conditions potentially could have an
adverse effect on the capital markets, which would affect the discount rate assumptions, terminal value estimates, transaction premiums and comparable transactions. Such economic conditions could also have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of
our business and results of operations, which would affect our internal forecasts about future performance and terminal value estimates. Furthermore, such economic conditions could have a negative impact on the advertising industry in general or the
industries of those customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automotive, financial and other services, telecommunications, travel and restaurant industries, which in the aggregate provide a significant amount of our
historical and projected advertising revenue. The activities of our competitors, such as other broadcast television stations and radio stations, could have an adverse effect on our internal forecasts about future performance and terminal value
estimates. Changes in technology or our audience preferences, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums, such as internet, social media and broadband content providers serving the same markets, could have an
adverse effect on our internal forecasts about future performance, terminal value estimates and transaction premiums. Finally, the risk factors that we identify from time to time in our SEC reports could have an adverse effect on our internal
forecasts about future performance, terminal value estimates and transaction premiums.    Given the uncertainties of the current economic environment and the impact it has had, and may continue to have, on our business, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions made for the
purpose of our goodwill impairment testing will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If our assumptions regarding internal forecasts of future performance of our business as a whole or of our units are not achieved, if market conditions
change and affect the discount rate, or if there are lower comparable transactions and transaction premiums, we may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges in future periods. It is not possible at this time to determine if any
such future change in our assumptions would have an adverse impact on our valuation models and result in impairment, or if it does, whether such impairment charge would be material.    Indefinite Life Intangible Assets    We believe that our broadcast licenses are indefinite life intangible assets. An intangible asset is determined
to have an indefinite useful life when there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or any other factors that may limit the period over which the asset is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to future cash flows. The
evaluation of impairment for indefinite life intangible assets is performed by a comparison of the asset’s carrying value to the asset’s fair value. When the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the
amount of the difference. The unit of accounting used to test broadcast licenses represents all licenses owned and operated within an individual market cluster, because such licenses are used together, are complimentary to each other and are
representative of the best use of those assets. Our individual market clusters consist of cities or nearby cities. We test our broadcasting licenses for impairment based on certain assumptions about these market clusters. We wrote down the carrying
value of certain broadcast licenses in our television and radio reporting units to fair value during our 2010 annual impairment test.   
The estimated fair value of indefinite life intangible assets is determined by using an income approach. The income approach estimates
fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market cluster that a hypothetical buyer would expect to generate, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the
overall level of inherent risk. The income approach requires us to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin projections and terminal value multiples. We estimate the discount rates on a blended rate of
return considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to us. We also
estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. We estimated the revenue projections and profit margin projections based on various market clusters signal coverage of the
markets and industry information for an average station within a given market. The information for each market cluster includes such things as estimated market share, estimated capital start-up

  61 


Table of Contents

costs, population, household income, retail sales and other expenditures that would influence advertising expenditures. Alternatively, some stations under evaluation have had limited relevant
cash flow history due to planned or actual conversion of format or upgrade of station signal. The assumptions we make about cash flows after conversion are based on the performance of similar stations in similar markets and potential proceeds from
the sale of the assets. The fair values of our television FCC licenses for each of our market clusters exceeded the carrying values in amounts ranging from 5% to over 500%. The fair values of our radio FCC licenses for each of our market clusters
exceeded the carrying values in amounts ranging from 4% to 300%.    The continuation or worsening of current economic conditions potentially could have an adverse effect on the capital markets, which would affect the discount rate assumptions, terminal value estimates,
transaction premiums and comparable transactions. Such economic conditions could also have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of our business and results of operations, which would affect our internal forecasts about future performance and
terminal value estimates. Furthermore, such economic conditions could have a negative impact on the advertising industry in general or the industries of those customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automotive,
financial and other services, telecommunications, travel and restaurant industries, which in the aggregate provide a significant amount of our historical and projected advertising revenue. The activities of our competitors, such as other broadcast
television stations and radio stations, could have an adverse effect on our internal forecasts about future performance and terminal value estimates. Changes in technology or our audience preferences, including increased competition from other forms
of advertising-based mediums, such as internet, social media and broadband content providers serving the same markets, could have an adverse effect on our internal forecasts about future performance, terminal value estimates and transaction
premiums. Finally, the risk factors that we identify from time to time in our SEC reports could have an adverse effect on our internal forecasts about future performance, terminal value estimates and transaction premiums. 
  Given the uncertainties of the current economic environment
and the impact it has had, and may continue to have, on our business, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions made for the purposes of our impairment testing will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If our
assumptions regarding internal forecasts of future performance of our business as a whole or of our units are not achieved, if market conditions change and affect the discount rate, or if there are lower comparable transactions and transaction
premiums, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future change in our assumptions would have an adverse impact on our valuation models and result in
impairment, or if it does, whether such impairment charge would be material.    Long-Lived Assets, Including Intangibles Subject to Amortization   
Depreciation and amortization of our long-lived assets is provided using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives.
Changes in circumstances, such as the passage of new laws or changes in regulations, technological advances, changes to our business model or changes in our capital strategy could result in the actual useful lives differing from initial estimates.
In those cases where we determine that the useful life of a long-lived asset should be revised, we will depreciate the net book value in excess of the estimated residual value over its revised remaining useful life. Factors such as changes in the
planned use of equipment, customer attrition, contractual amendments or mandated regulatory requirements could result in shortened useful lives.   
Long-lived assets and asset groups are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of such assets may not be recoverable. The estimated future cash flows are based upon, among other things, assumptions about expected future operating performance and may differ from actual cash flows. Long-lived assets evaluated for
impairment are grouped with other assets to the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets and liabilities. If the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows (excluding
interest) is less than the carrying value of the assets, the assets will be written down to the estimated fair value in the period in which the determination is made. 
  62 


Table of Contents
Deferred Taxes    Deferred taxes are provided on a liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible
temporary differences and deferred liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets are reduced by
a valuation allowance when it is determined to be more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the
date of enactment.    We recognize the tax benefit
from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements
from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  Television and radio revenue related to the sale of
advertising is recognized at the time of broadcast. Revenue contracts with advertising agencies are recorded at an amount that is net of the commission retained by the agency. Revenue from contracts that we enter into directly with our advertisers
is recorded at gross revenue and the related commission or national representation fee is recorded in operating expense. Cash payments received prior to services rendered result in deferred revenue, which is then recognized as revenue when the
advertising time or space is actually provided.   
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   
Our accounts receivable consist of a homogeneous pool of relatively small dollar amounts from a large number of customers. We evaluate the
collectibility of our trade accounts receivable based on a number of factors. When we are aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations to us, a specific reserve for bad debts is estimated and recorded which reduces
the recognized receivable to the estimated amount we believe will ultimately be collected. In addition to specific customer identification of potential bad debts, bad debt charges are recorded based on our recent past loss history and an overall
assessment of past due trade accounts receivable amounts outstanding.    Derivative Instruments    ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures”, requires us to recognize all of our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet at fair value.
The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship, and further, on the type of hedging relationship. 
  The carrying amount of our interest rate swap agreements is
recorded at fair market value, including non-performance risk, and any changes to the value are recorded as an increase or decrease in interest expense. The fair market value of each interest rate swap agreement is determined by using multiple
broker quotes, adjusted for non-performance risk, which estimate the future discounted cash flows of any future payments that may be made under such agreements.   
For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized a decrease of $13.4 million in interest expense related to the increase in fair
value of the interest rate swap agreements.    We
terminated the interest rate swap agreements effective July 27, 2010, so there is no balance as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
  63 


Table of Contents
Additional Information 
  For additional information on our significant accounting
policies, please see Note 2 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    Recent Accounting Pronouncements    In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-4, “Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and
Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS” (“ASU 2011-4”). The guidance results in a consistent definition of fair value and common requirements for measurement of and disclosure about fair value between U.S. GAAP and
International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-4 is effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this standard on the consolidated financial statements.
   Sensitivity of Critical Accounting Estimates 
  We have critical accounting estimates that are sensitive to
change. The most significant of those sensitive estimates relate to the impairment of intangible assets. Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are not amortized but are tested annually on October 1 for impairment, or more frequently if
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, we must make assumptions about the estimated future cash flows and other factors to
determine the fair value of these assets.   
Television   
In calculating the estimated fair value of our television FCC licenses, we used models that rely on various assumptions, such as future
cash flows, discount rates and multiples. The estimates of future cash flows assume that the television segment revenues will increase significantly faster than the increase in the television expenses, and therefore the television assets will also
increase in value. If any of the estimates of future cash flows, discount rates, multiples or assumptions were to change in any future valuation, it could affect our impairment analysis and cause us to record an additional expense for impairment.
   We conducted a review of our television
indefinite life intangible assets by using an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market cluster that a hypothetical buyer would expect to generate, discounted by an estimated
weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk. The income approach requires us to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin
projections and terminal value multiples. We estimate the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded
companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to us. We also estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. We estimated the revenue
projections and profit margin projections based on various market clusters signal coverage of the markets and industry information for an average station within a given market. The information for each market cluster includes such things as
estimated market share, estimated capital start-up costs, population, household income, retail sales and other expenditures that would influence advertising expenditures. Based on the assumptions and estimates described above, we did not record
impairment in 2011 as the fair values of our television FCC licenses for each of our market clusters was greater than their respective carrying values. The fair values exceeded the carrying values in amounts ranging from 5% to over 500%. We
recognized impairment charges of $24 million relating to television FCC licenses in 2010.    We conducted our annual review of our television reporting unit in accordance with ASU 2011-8 and determined that it is more likely than not that its fair value is greater than its carrying amount. During
our qualitative assessment, we considered adverse events or circumstances which could affect the fair value of our 
  64 


Table of Contents

television reporting unit. We considered macroeconomic conditions, the broadcasting industry, the Spanish-language advertising industry, cost factors, our financial performance, our share price
and other relevant events in our analysis. We also took into consideration that the fair value of our television reporting unit was greater than the carrying value by 78% in the prior year impairment testing. Based on our analysis, we determined
that it is more likely than not that our television reporting unit fair value exceeded its carrying value so no impairment of goodwill was recorded.   
Radio   
In calculating the estimated fair value of our radio reporting unit and FCC licenses, we used models that rely on various assumptions,
such as future cash flows, discount rates and multiples. The estimates of future cash flows assume that the radio segment revenues will increase significantly faster than the increase in the radio expenses, and therefore the radio assets will also
increase in value. If any of the estimates of future cash flows, discount rates, multiples or assumptions were to change in any future valuation, it could affect our impairment analysis and cause us to record an additional expense for impairment.
   We conducted a review of our radio indefinite
life intangible assets by using an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market cluster that a hypothetical buyer would expect to generate, discounted by an estimated
weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk. The income approach requires us to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin
projections and terminal value multiples. We estimate the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded
companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to us. We also estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. We estimated the revenue
projections and profit margin projections based on various market clusters signal coverage of the markets and industry information for an average station within a given market. The information for each market cluster includes such things as
estimated market share, estimated capital start-up costs, population, household income, retail sales and other expenditures that would influence advertising expenditures. Based on the assumptions and estimates described above, we did not record
impairment in 2011 as the fair values of our radio FCC licenses for each of our market clusters was greater than their respective carrying values. The fair values exceeded the carrying values in amounts ranging from 4% to 300%. We recognized
impairment charges of $3 million relating to radio FCC licenses in 2010.    We conducted our annual review of our radio reporting unit and determined that the carrying value of our radio reporting unit exceeded the fair value. The fair value of the radio reporting unit was
primarily determined by using a combination of a market approach and an income approach. The revenue projections and profit margin projections in the models are based on various market clusters signal coverage of the markets and industry information
for an average station within a given market. The information for each market cluster includes such things as estimated market share, estimated capital start-up costs, population, household income, retail sales and other expenditures that would
influence advertising expenditures. Alternatively, some stations under evaluation have had limited relevant cash flow history due to planned or actual conversion of format or upgrade of station signal. The assumptions about cash flows after
conversion are based on the performance of similar stations in similar markets and potential proceeds from the sale of the assets. The market-based approach used comparable company earnings multiples. Based on the assumptions and estimates described
above, we did not record impairment in 2011. The fair value of our radio reporting unit was greater than the carrying value by 42%. Our radio reporting unit carrying value exceeded its fair value in 2010 and we recognized a goodwill impairment
charge of $10 million in 2010.    Impact of Inflation
   We believe that inflation has not had a
material impact on our results of operations for each of our fiscal years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011. However, there can be no assurance that future inflation would not have an adverse impact on our operating results and
financial condition. 
  65 


Table of Contents
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
   General  
  Market risk represents the potential loss that may impact
our financial position, results of operations or cash flows due to adverse changes in the financial markets. We are not exposed to market risk from changes in the base rates as our debt is at a fixed rate. Since we pay interest at a fixed rate, any
future increase in the variable interest rate would not affect our interest expense payments under the Notes. Our current policy prohibits entering into derivatives or other financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. 
  Interest Rates  
  On July 27, 2010, we completed the offering and sale of
$400 million aggregate principal amount of our Notes. The Notes were issued at a discount of 98.722% of their principal amount and mature on August 1, 2017. Interest on the Notes accrues at a rate of 8.75% per annum from the date of
original issuance and is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2011. We received net proceeds of approximately $388 million from the sale of the Notes (net of bond discount
of $5 million and fees of $7 million), which were used to pay all indebtedness outstanding under our previous syndicated bank credit facility, terminate the related interest rate swap agreements, pay fees and expenses related to offering of the
Notes and provide capital for general corporate purposes.   
 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  See pages F-1 through F-59. 
  66 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE    None.   


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   
We conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our chief executive officer and
chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period
covered by this annual report.    Our disclosure
controls and procedures are designed to ensure that the information relating to our company, including our consolidated subsidiaries, required to be disclosed in our SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in SEC rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on this
evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of the evaluation date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
  Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
   Our management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our chief executive
officer and chief financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Based on our evaluation, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 
  Our internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Our independent registered public accounting firm,
McGladrey & Pullen, LLP, which has audited and reported on our financial statements, issued an attestation report regarding our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. McGladrey & Pullen, LLP’s
report is included in this annual report below.   Inherent
Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls    Our
management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter
how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future
events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.
  67 


Table of Contents
Changes in Internal Control 
  There have not been any changes in our internal control over
financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
  68 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
 Entravision Communications Corporation 
  We have audited Entravision Communications Corporation’s
and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Entravision Communications Corporation’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included
in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is
a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (a) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the company; (b) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (c) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.    Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, Entravision Communications Corporation
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.    We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Entravision Communications Corporation and subsidiaries and the related consolidated statement of
operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit) and cash flows, and our report dated March 9, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion.   
/s/ McGladrey & Pullen, LLP 
  Los Angeles, California 
March 9, 2012 
  69 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION   
Not applicable. 
  70 


Table of Contents
PART III 
 


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
Information regarding our directors and matters pertaining to our corporate governance policies and procedures are set forth in
“Proposal 1—Election of Directors” under the captions “Biographical Information Regarding Directors” and “Corporate Governance” in our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled to be held on May 31, 2012, or the 2012 Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding compliance by our directors and executive officers and owners of more than ten percent of our Class A
common stock with the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is set forth in the proxy statement under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.” Such information is incorporated herein
by reference.   


ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
Information regarding the compensation of our executive officers and directors is set forth in “Proposal 1—Election of
Directors” under the caption “Director Compensation” and under the caption “Summary of Cash and Certain Other Compensation” in the 2012 Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
  Information regarding ownership of our common stock by
certain persons is set forth under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and under the caption “Summary of Cash and Certain Other Compensation” in the 2012 Proxy Statement. Such information
is incorporated herein by reference.   


ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
  Information regarding relationships or transactions between
our affiliates and us is set forth under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in the 2012 Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   
Information regarding fees paid to and services performed by our independent accountants is set forth in “Proposal
2—Ratification of Appointment of Independent Auditor” under the caption “Audit and Other Fees” in the 2012 Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by reference. 
  71 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
(a) Documents filed as part of this report:  
  1. Financial Statements 
  The consolidated financial statements contained herein are as
listed on the “Index to Consolidated Financial Statements” on page F-1 of this report.    2. Financial Statement Schedule    The consolidated financial statement schedule contained herein is as listed on the “Index to Consolidated Financial Statements” on page F-1 of this report. All other schedules have been omitted
because they are not applicable, not required, or the information is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.   
3. Exhibits   
See Exhibit Index.   
(b) Exhibits:    
The following exhibits are attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. 
 








 ExhibitNumber
 
  
 Exhibit Description




 
  2.1(1)
  
  
Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of July 25, 2005 by and among Entravision Holdings, LLC, Entravision Communications Corporation, Univision Radio License Corporation and
Univision Communications Inc.




 
  2.2(2)
  
  
Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of February 28, 2008 among Entravision Communications Corporation, Z-Spanish Media Corporation, Inc., Vista Media Group, Inc. and Lamar
Advertising of Penn, LLC




 
  3.1(3)
  
  
Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation




 
  3.2(4)
  
  
Third Amended and Restated Bylaws, as adopted on December 9, 2005




 
  3.3(5)
  
  
First Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Bylaws




 
10.1(6)†
  
  
2000 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan




 
10.2(7)†
  
  
Form of Notice of Stock Option Grant and Stock Option Agreement under the 2000 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan




 
10.3(6)
  
  
Form of Voting Agreement by and among Walter F. Ulloa, Philip C. Wilkinson, Paul A. Zevnik and the registrant




 
10.4(8)†
  
  
Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 2011 by and between the registrant and Walter F. Ulloa




 
10.5(8)†
  
  
Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 2011 by and between the registrant and Philip C. Wilkinson




 
10.6(23)†
  
  
Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 2010 by and between the registrant and Jeffery A. Liberman
  72 


Table of Contents








 ExhibitNumber
 
  
 Exhibit Description




 
10.7(9)†
  
  
Executive Employment Agreement effective as of December 1, 2005 by and between the registrant and John F. DeLorenzo




 
10.8(10)†
  
  
Separation and Transition Agreement effective as of April 11, 2008 by and between the registrant and John F. DeLorenzo




 
10.9*†
  
  
Executive Employment Agreement effective as of May 12, 2011 between the registrant and Christopher T. Young




 
10.10(11)†
  
  
Form of Indemnification Agreement for officers and directors of the registrant




 
10.11(6)
  
  
Form of Investors Rights Agreement by and among the registrant and certain of its stockholders




 
10.12(1)
  
  
Amendment to Investor Rights Agreement dated as of September 9, 2005 by and between Entravision Communications Corporation and Univision Communications Inc.




 
10.13(1)
  
  
Letter Agreement regarding registration rights of Univision dated as of September 9, 2005 by and between Entravision Communications Corporation and Univision Communications
Inc.




 
10.14(6)
  
  
Office Lease dated August 19, 1999 by and between Water Garden Company L.L.C. and Entravision Communications Company, L.L.C.




 
10.15(12)
  
  
First Amendment to Lease and Agreement Re: Sixth Floor Additional Space dated as of March 15, 2001 by and between Water Garden Company L.L.C., Entravision Communications Company,
L.L.C. and the registrant




 
10.16(9)
  
  
Second Amendment to Lease dated as of October 5, 2005 by and between Water Garden Company L.L.C. and the registrant




 
10.17(24)
  
  
Third Amendment to Lease effective as of January 31, 2011 by and between Water Garden Company L.L.C. and the registrant




 
10.18(13)
  
  
Limited Liability Company Agreement of Lotus/Entravision Reps LLC dated as of August 10, 2001




 
10.19(14)
  
  
Master Network Affiliation Agreement, dated as of August 14, 2002, by and between Entravision Communications Corporation and Univision Network Limited
Partnership




 
10.20(25)
  
  
Amendment, effective as of October 1, 2011, to Master Network Affiliation Agreement, dated as of August 14, 2002, by and between Entravision Communications Corporation and
Univision Network Limited Partnership




 
10.21(14)
  
  
Master Network Affiliation Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2004, by and between Entravision Communications Corporation and TeleFutura




 
10.22(25)
  
  
Amendment, effective as of October 1, 2011, to Master Network Affiliation Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2004, by and between Entravision Communications Corporation and
TeleFutura




 
10.23(3)†
  
  
2004 Equity Incentive Plan




 
10.24(15)†
  
  
First Amendment, dated as of May 1, 2006, to 2004 Equity Incentive Plan




 
10.25(16)†
  
  
Second Amendment, dated as of July 13, 2006, to 2004 Equity Incentive Plan




 
10.26(7)†
  
  
Form of Stock Option Award under the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan




 
10.27(17)†
  
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award under the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan




 
10.28(18)
  
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award under the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan
  73 


Table of Contents








 ExhibitNumber
 
  
 Exhibit Description




 
10.29(19)
  
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award under the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan




 
10.30(20)†
  
  
Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation




 
10.31(21)
  
  
Indenture, dated as of July 27, 2010, by and among Entravision Communications Corporation, the guarantors named therein and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as
Trustee




 
10.32(22)
  
  
Purchase Agreement, dated July 22, 2010, by and among Entravision Communications Corporation, the guarantors named therein and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., as
representatives of the initial purchasers




 
10.33(22)
  
  
Registration Rights Agreement, dated July 27, 2010, by and among Entravision Communications Corporation, the guarantors named therein and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., as
representatives of the initial purchasers




 
10.34(22)
  
  
Credit Agreement, dated July 27, 2010, by and among Entravision Communications Corporation, as the Borrower, the other persons designated as Credit Parties, General Electric
Capital Corporation, for itself, as a Lender and as Agent for all Lenders, the other financial institutions party thereto and GE Capital Markets, Inc., as Sole Lead Arranger and Bookrunner




 
10.35(26)
  
  
First Amendment, dated February 24, 2012, to Credit Agreement, dated July 27, 2010, by and among Entravision Communications Corporation, as the Borrower, the other persons
designated as Credit Parties, General Electric Capital Corporation, for itself, as a Lender and as Agent for all Lenders, the other financial institutions party thereto and GE Capital Markets, Inc., as Sole Lead Arranger and
Bookrunner




 
10.36(22)
  
  
Security Agreement, dated July 27, 2010, by and among Entravision Communications Corporation, each other guarantor from time to time party thereto and General Electric
Capital Corporation, as Collateral Trustee




 
10.37(22)
  
  
Collateral Trust and Intercreditor Agreement, dated July 27, 2010, by and among Entravision Communications Corporation, the guarantors from time to time party thereto, Wells
Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee under the Indenture, the Administrative Agent, the other Priority Debt Representatives from time to time party thereto and General Electric Capital Corporation, as Collateral Trustee




 
21.1*
  
  
Subsidiaries of the registrant




 
23.1*
  
  
Consent of McGladrey & Pullen LLP




 
24.1*
  
  
Power of Attorney (included after signatures hereto)




 
31.1*
  
  
Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934




 
31.2*
  
  
Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934




 
32*
  
  
Certification of Periodic Financial Report by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002




 
101.INS**
  
  
XBRL Instance Document.




 
101.SCH**
  
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.




 
101.CAL**
  
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.




 
101.LAB**
  
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
  74 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Description




101.PRE**
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.




101.DEF**
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.
  


*
Filed herewith. 


**
XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Section 11
or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections 


†
Management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement. 


(1)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, filed with the SEC on November 9, 2005.



(2)
Incorporated by reference from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed with the SEC on March 17, 2008.



(3)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, filed with the SEC on August 9, 2004.



(4)
Incorporated by reference from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.



(5)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, filed with the SEC on May 11, 2009.



(6)
Incorporated by reference from our Registration Statement on Form S-1, No. 333-35336, filed with the SEC on April 21, 2000, as amended by Amendment No. 1
thereto, filed with the SEC on June 14, 2000, Amendment No. 2 thereto, filed with the SEC on July 10, 2000, Amendment No. 3 thereto, filed with the SEC on July 11, 2000 and Amendment No. 4 thereto, filed with the SEC on
July 26, 2000. 


(7)
Incorporated by reference from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2005.



(8)
Incorporated by reference from our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on June 2, 2011. 


(9)
Incorporated by reference from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.



(10)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, filed with the SEC on May 12, 2008.



(11)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000, filed with the SEC on September 15, 2000.



(12)
Incorporated by reference from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, filed with the SEC on March 28, 2001.



(13)
Incorporated by reference from our Registration Statement on Form S-3, No. 333-81652, filed with the SEC on January 30, 2002, as amended by Post-Effective
Amendment No. 1 thereto, filed with the SEC on February 25, 2002. 


(14)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2004.



(15)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2006.



(16)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, filed with the SEC on November 9, 2006.



(17)
Incorporated by reference from our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on October 4, 2006. 


(18)
Incorporated by reference from our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on March 2, 2007 


(19)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, filed with the SEC on August 11, 2008.



(20)
Incorporated by reference from our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on July 17, 2006. 


(21)
Incorporated by reference from our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on July 27, 2010. 
  75 


Table of Contents


(22)
Incorporated by reference from our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on August 10, 2010. 


(23)
Incorporated by reference from our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on March 31, 2010. 


(24)
Incorporated by reference from our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on March 25, 2011. 


(25)
Incorporated by reference from our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on January 5, 2011. 


(26)
Incorporated by reference from our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on February 24, 2012. 
  (c) Financial Statement Schedules:  
  Not applicable. 
  76 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
 






ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION




By:
 
/s/    WALTER F.
ULLOA        


 
 Walter F. Ulloa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Date: March 9, 2012    POWER OF ATTORNEY    KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints,
jointly and severally, Walter F. Ulloa and Christopher T. Young, and each of them, as his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting
unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date

 /s/    WALTER F.
ULLOA         Walter F. Ulloa
  
 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) and Director
 
March 9, 2012





 /s/    PHILIP C.
WILKINSON         Philip C. Wilkinson
  
 President, Chief Operating Officer and Director
 
March 9, 2012





 /s/    CHRISTOPHER T.
YOUNG         Christopher T. Young
  
 Executive Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer and principal accounting
officer)
 
March 9, 2012





 /s/    PAUL A.
ZEVNIK         Paul A. Zevnik
  
 Director
 
March 9, 2012





 /s/    DARRYL B.
THOMPSON         Darryl B. Thompson
  
 Director
 
March 9, 2012





 /s/    ESTEBAN E.
TORRES         Esteban E. Torres
  
 Director
 
March 9, 2012





 /s/    GILBERT R.
VASQUEZ         Gilbert R. Vasquez
  
 Director
 
March 9, 2012

  77 


Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   








 
  
Page
 

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
F-2
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets—December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
F-3
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations—Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-4
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity—Years ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
F-5
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows—Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-6
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
F-7
  

 Schedule II—Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  
 
F-45
  
   Other Financial Statements of Entravision
Communications Corporation’s Subsidiary, Entravision Holdings, LLC    The following financial statements for Entravision Communications Corporation’s wholly owned subsidiary, Entravision Holdings, LLC, are included pursuant to Regulation S-X, Rule 3-16, “Financial
Statements of Affiliates Whose Securities Collateralize an Issue Registered or Being Registered.”    ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC   








 
  
Page
 

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
F-46
  

 Balance Sheets—December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
F-47
  

 Statements of Operations—Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
F-48
  

 Statements of Member’s Equity—Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-49
  

 Statements of Cash Flows—Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
F-50
  

 Notes to Financial Statements
  
 
F-51
  

  F-1



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
   To the Board of Directors
and Stockholders  Entravision Communications Corporation 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of Entravision Communications Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Entravision Communications Corporation listed in Item 15(a) for each of the three years ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Entravision Communications Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.    We also audited
the condensed financial information pursuant to Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 which have been included in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Entravision Communications Corporation’s and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated March 9, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of Entravision Communications
Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting.    /s/ McGladrey & Pullen, LLP    Los Angeles, California  March 9, 2012 
  F-2



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
December 31, 2011 and 2010  (In thousands, except share and per share data)   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

ASSETS
  



 




 Current assets
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
58,719
  
 
$
72,390
  

 Restricted cash
  
 
—  
  
 
 
809
  

 Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $3,926 and $5,099 (including related parties of $5,608 and
$5,315)
  
 
44,270
  
 
 
41,552
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets (including related parties of $274 and $274)
  
 
5,939
  
 
 
6,867
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
108,928
  
 
 
121,618
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
65,226
  
 
 
71,777
  

 Intangible assets subject to amortization, net (including related parties of $23,513 and $25,880)
  
 
24,598
  
 
 
26,615
  

 Intangible assets not subject to amortization
  
 
220,701
  
 
 
220,023
  

 Goodwill
  
 
36,647
  
 
 
35,912
  

 Other assets
  
 
11,221
  
 
 
14,865
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
467,321
  
 
$
490,810
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 Current liabilities
  



 




 Current maturities of long-term debt (including related parties of $0 and $1,000)
  
$
—  
  
 
$
1,000
  

 Advances payable, related parties
  
 
118
  
 
 
118
  

 Accounts payable and accrued expenses (including related parties of $5,691 and $4,683)
  
 
39,750
  
 
 
38,550
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
39,868
  
 
 
39,668
  

 Long-term debt, less current maturities (net of bond discount of $4,134 and $4,881)
  
 
379,662
  
 
 
395,119
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
8,327
  
 
 
10,294
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
40,025
  
 
 
35,372
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
467,882
  
 
 
480,453
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and contingencies (note 9)
  



 




 Stockholders’ equity (deficit)
  



 




 Class A common stock, $0.0001 par value, 260,000,000 shares authorized; shares issued and outstanding 2011 53,514,769; 2010
52,978,304
  
 
5
  
 
 
5
  

 Class B common stock, $0.0001 par value, 40,000,000 shares authorized; shares issued and outstanding 2011 and 2010
22,188,161
  
 
2
  
 
 
2
  

 Class U common stock, $0.0001 par value, 40,000,000 shares authorized; shares issued and outstanding 2011 and 2010
9,352,729
  
 
1
  
 
 
1
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
938,453
  
 
 
941,171
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(939,022
) 
 
 
(930,822
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity (deficit)
  
 
(561
) 
 
 
10,357
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity (deficit)
  
$
467,321
  
 
$
490,810
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements 
  F-3



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
(In thousands, except share and per share data)   
















 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net revenue
 
$
194,396
  
 
$
200,476
  
 
$
189,231
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
 



 



 




 Direct operating expenses (including related parties of $8,373, $10,857, and $8,105) (including non-cash stock-based compensation
of $229, $454 and $854)
 
 
88,590
  
 
 
84,802
  
 
 
83,902
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses (including non-cash stock-based compensation of $812, $897, and
$1,142)
 
 
36,511
  
 
 
38,046
  
 
 
38,278
  

 Corporate expenses (including non-cash stock-based compensation of $1,302, $1,619, and $2,038)
 
 
15,669
  
 
 
18,416
  
 
 
14,918
  

 Depreciation and amortization (includes direct operating of $13,258, $13,545, and $15,454; selling, general and administrative of
$3,141, $3,557, and $4,328; and corporate of $2,254, $2,127, and $1,251) (including related parties of $3,617, $3,211, and $2,320)
 
 
18,653
  
 
 
19,229
  
 
 
21,033
  

 Impairment charge
 
 
—  
  
 
 
36,109
  
 
 
50,648
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


 
 
159,423
  
 
 
196,602
  
 
 
208,779
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
 
 
34,973
  
 
 
3,874
  
 
 
(19,548
) 

 Interest expense (including related parties of $30, $83, and $118)
 
 
(37,650
) 
 
 
(24,429
) 
 
 
(27,948
) 

 Interest income
 
 
3
  
 
 
260
  
 
 
459
  

 Other income (loss)
 
 
687
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Gain (loss) on debt extinguishment
 
 
(423
) 
 
 
(987
) 
 
 
(4,716
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
(2,410
) 
 
 
(21,282
) 
 
 
(51,753
) 

 Income tax (expense) benefit
 
 
(5,790
) 
 
 
3,376
  
 
 
1,917
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate
 
 
(8,200
) 
 
 
(17,906
) 
 
 
(49,836
) 

 Equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(180
) 
 
 
(236
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
 
$
(8,200
) 
 
$
(18,086
) 
 
$
(50,072
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and diluted earnings per share:
 



 



 




 Net income (loss) per share applicable to common stockholders, basic and diluted
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
(0.21
) 
 
$
(0.60
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding, basic and diluted
 
 
85,051,066
  
 
 
84,488,930
  
 
 
83,972,709
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements 
  F-4



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
(In thousands, except share data)   












































 
 
Number of Common Shares
 
 
Common Stock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital

 
 
AccumulatedDeficit
 
 
Total
 

 
 
Class A
 
 
Class B
 
 
Class U
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
ClassA
 
 
ClassB
 
 
ClassU
 
 
 
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
 
 
45,877,400
  
 
 
22,887,433
  
 
 
15,652,729
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
934,749
  
 
$
(862,664
) 
 
$
72,094
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options or awards of restricted stock units
 
 
54,200
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase plan
 
 
508,202
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
255
  

 Stock-based compensation expense, net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,034
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,034
  

 Repurchase of Class A common stock
 
 
(1,232,680
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,232,680
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,075
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,075
) 

 Retirement of treasury stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,232,680
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 

 Class B common stock exchanged for Class A common stock
 
 
300,000
  
 
 
(300,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Class U common stock exchanged for Class A common stock
 
 
6,300,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,300,000
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2009
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(50,072
) 
 
 
(50,072
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
 
51,807,122
  
 
 
22,587,433
  
 
 
9,352,729
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
937,963
  
 
$
(912,736
) 
 
$
25,235
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options or awards of restricted stock units
 
 
771,910
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
237
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
237
  

 Stock-based compensation expense, net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,971
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,971
  

 Class B common stock exchanged for Class A common stock
 
 
399,272
  
 
 
(399,272
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2010
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(18,086
) 
 
 
(18,086
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
 
52,978,304
  
 
 
22,188,161
  
 
 
9,352,729
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
941,171
  
 
$
(930,822
) 
 
$
10,357
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options or awards of restricted stock units
 
 
536,465
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
41
  

 Stock-based compensation expense, net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,343
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,343
  

 Dividends paid
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,102
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,102
) 

 Net income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2011
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8,200
) 
 
 
(8,200
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
 
53,514,769
  
 
 
22,188,161
  
 
 
9,352,729
  
 
 
—  
  
 
$
5
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
938,453
  
 
$
(939,022
) 
 
$
(561
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements 
  F-5



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
(In thousands)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(8,200
) 
 
$
(18,086
) 
 
$
(50,072
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
18,653
  
 
 
19,229
  
 
 
21,033
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
 
 
36,109
  
 
 
50,648
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
4,565
  
 
 
(4,342
) 
 
 
(2,351
) 

 Amortization of debt issue costs
  
 
2,207
  
 
 
1,140
  
 
 
402
  

 Amortization of syndication contracts
  
 
1,482
  
 
 
1,159
  
 
 
1,981
  

 Payments on syndication contracts
  
 
(1,976
) 
 
 
(2,724
) 
 
 
(2,836
) 

 Equity in net (income) loss of nonconsolidated affiliate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
236
  

 Non-cash stock-based compensation
  
 
2,343
  
 
 
2,970
  
 
 
4,034
  

 Other (income) loss
  
 
(687
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 (Gain) loss on debt extinguishment
  
 
423
  
 
 
934
  
 
 
945
  

 Reserve for note receivable
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,018
  
 
 
—  
  

 Change in fair value of interest rate swap agreements
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(12,188
) 
 
 
(6,979
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effect of acquisitions and dispositions:
  



 



 




 (Increase) decrease in restricted cash
  
 
809
  
 
 
(809
) 
 
 
—  
  

 (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable
  
 
(574
) 
 
 
2,091
  
 
 
570
  

 (Increase) decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets
  
 
336
  
 
 
310
  
 
 
(484
) 

 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
(1,770
) 
 
 
8,134
  
 
 
1,662
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
 
17,611
  
 
 
37,125
  
 
 
18,789
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Proceeds from sale of property and equipment and intangibles
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
122
  

 Purchases of property and equipment and intangibles
  
 
(8,524
) 
 
 
(8,650
) 
 
 
(10,965
) 

 Purchase of a business
  
 
(598
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
(9,122
) 
 
 
(8,650
) 
 
 
(10,843
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of common stock
  
 
42
  
 
 
239
  
 
 
255
  

 Payments on long-term debt
  
 
(17,071
) 
 
 
(362,949
) 
 
 
(42,572
) 

 Termination of swap agreements
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,039
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(5,102
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of Class A common stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,075
) 

 Proceeds from borrowings on long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
394,888
  
 
 
—  
  

 Payments of capitalized debt offering costs
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
(11,890
) 
 
 
(1,182
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(22,160
) 
 
 
16,249
  
 
 
(44,574
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(13,671
) 
 
 
44,724
  
 
 
(36,628
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents:
  



 



 




 Beginning
  
 
72,390
  
 
 
27,666
  
 
 
64,294
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending
  
$
58,719
  
 
$
72,390
  
 
$
27,666
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
  



 



 




 Cash payments for:
  



 



 




 Interest
  
$
36,428
  
 
$
30,805
  
 
$
31,739
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income taxes
  
$
1,225
  
 
$
966
  
 
$
434
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements 
  F-6



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
1. NATURE OF BUSINESS 
  Nature of Business
   Entravision Communications Corporation
(together with its subsidiaries, hereinafter, individually and colletively, the “Company”) is a diversified Spanish-language media company utilizing a combination of television and radio operations to reach Hispanic consumers in the United
States. The Company’s management has determined that the Company operates in two reportable segments as of December 31, 2011, based upon the type of advertising medium, which consist of television broadcasting and radio broadcasting. As of
December 31, 2011, the Company owns and/or operates 53 primary television stations located primarily in the California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas and Washington, D.C., consisting primarily of
Univision Communications Inc. (“Univision”) affiliated stations. Radio operations consist of 48 operational radio stations, 37 FM and 11 AM, in 19 markets located primarily in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Nevada, New Mexico and
Texas.   
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Basis of Consolidation and
Presentation    The accompanying
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
  Investment in Nonconsolidated Affiliates
   Except for a variable interest entity,
the Company accounts for its investment in its less than majority-owned investees using the equity method under which the Company’s share of the net earnings is recognized in the Company’s statement of operations. Condensed financial
information is not provided, as these operations are not considered to be significant.    Variable Interest Entities    The Company performs a qualitative analysis to determine if it is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. This analysis includes consideration of who has the power to direct the activities
of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and who has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the variable interest entity that could potentially be significant to the variable
interest entity. The Company continuously reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity.   
The Company has consolidated one entity for which it is the primary beneficiary. Total net assets and results of operations of the entity
as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 are not significant.    Use of Estimates    The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.    The Company’s
operations are affected by numerous factors, including changes in audience acceptance (i.e., ratings), priorities of advertisers, new laws and governmental regulations and policies and technological advances. The Company cannot predict if any of
these factors might have a significant impact on the television and radio advertising industries in the future, nor can it predict what impact, if any, the occurrence of these or other events might have on the Company’s operations and cash
flows. Significant estimates and assumptions 
  F-7



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   

made by management are used for, but not limited to, the allowance for doubtful accounts, the estimated useful lives of long-lived and intangible assets, the recoverability of such assets by
their estimated future undiscounted cash flows, the fair value of reporting units and indefinite life intangible assets, fair values of derivative instruments, disclosure of the fair value of debt, deferred income taxes and the purchase price
allocations used in the Company’s acquisitions.    Cash and Cash Equivalents    The Company considers all short-term, highly liquid debt instruments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of funds held in
general checking accounts, money market accounts and commercial paper. Cash and cash equivalents are stated at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value. 
  Restricted Cash 
  As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s balance
sheet includes $0.8 million in restricted cash, which was used as temporary collateral for the Company’s $0.8 million letters of credit. These funds were segregated from the Company’s operating cash account. 
  Long-lived Assets, Other Assets and Intangibles Subject
to Amortization    Property and equipment
are recorded at cost. Depreciation and amortization are provided using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives (see Note 5). The Company periodically evaluates assets to be held and used and long-lived assets held for sale, when
events and circumstances warrant such review.   
Syndication contracts are recorded at cost. Syndication amortization is provided using the straight-line method over their estimated
useful lives.    Intangible assets subject to
amortization are amortized on a straight-line method over their estimated useful lives (see Note 4). Favorable leasehold interests and pre-sold advertising contracts are amortized over the term of the underlying contracts. Deferred debt costs are
amortized over the life of the related indebtedness using the effective interest method.    Changes in circumstances, such as the passage of new laws or changes in regulations, technological advances or changes to the Company’s business strategy, could result in the actual useful lives
differing from initial estimates. Factors such as changes in the planned use of equipment, customer attrition, contractual amendments or mandated regulatory requirements could result in shortened useful lives. In those cases where the Company
determines that the useful life of a long-lived asset should be revised, the Company will amortize or depreciate the net book value in excess of the estimated residual value over its revised remaining useful life. 
  Long-lived assets and asset groups are evaluated for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. The estimated future cash flows are based upon, among other things, assumptions about expected future operating
performance, and may differ from actual cash flows. Long-lived assets evaluated for impairment are grouped with other assets to the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets
and liabilities. If the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value of the assets, the assets will be written down to the estimated fair value in the period in which the determination is made.

  F-8



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Goodwill    The Company believes that the accounting estimates related to the fair value of its reporting units and
indefinite life intangible assets and its estimates of the useful lives of its long-lived assets are “critical accounting estimates” because: (1) goodwill and other intangible assets are its most significant assets, and (2) the
impact that recognizing an impairment would have on the assets reported on the balance sheet, as well as on the results of operations, could be material. Accordingly, the assumptions about future cash flows on the assets under evaluation are
critical.    Goodwill represents the excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in each business combination. The Company tests its goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually on the first day of
its fourth fiscal quarter, or more frequently if certain events or certain changes in circumstances indicate they may be impaired. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, the Company must make a series of
assumptions about such things as the estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of these assets.   
Goodwill impairment testing is a two-step process. The first step is a comparison of the fair values of the Company’s reporting units
to their respective carrying amounts. The Company has determined that each of its operating segments is a reporting unit. If a reporting unit’s estimated fair value is equal to or greater than that reporting unit’s carrying value, no
impairment of goodwill exists and the testing is complete at the first step. However, if the reporting unit’s carrying amount is greater than the estimated fair value, the second step must be completed to measure the amount of impairment of
goodwill, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with its carrying amount to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. If the implied fair value of goodwill is
less than the carrying value of goodwill, then an impairment exists and an impairment loss is recorded for the amount of the difference.   
The estimated fair value of goodwill is determined by using a combination of a market approach and an income approach. The market approach
estimates fair value by applying sales, earnings and cash flow multiples to each reporting unit’s operating performance. The multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics
to our reporting units. The market approach requires us to make a series of assumptions, such as selecting comparable companies and comparable transactions and transaction premiums. The current economic conditions have led to a decrease in the
number of comparable transactions, which makes the market approach of comparable transactions and transaction premiums more difficult to estimate than in previous years. 
  The income approach estimates fair value based on our
estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk of that reporting unit. The income approach
also requires us to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin projections and terminal value multiples. The Company estimated discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity
for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to our Company. The Company also estimated the
terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. The Company estimated revenue projections and profit margin projections based on internal forecasts about future performance. 
  The Company has elected early adoption of Accounting
Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-8, “Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (“ASU 2011-8”), for the year ended December 31, 2011. Under this guidance, the Company would not be required to calculate the fair value
of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. 
  F-9



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Indefinite Ljfe Intangible Assets 
  The Company believes that its broadcast licenses are
indefinite life intangible assets. An intangible asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life when there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or any other factors that may limit the period over which the asset is
expected to contribute directly or indirectly to future cash flows. The evaluation of impairment for indefinite life intangible assets is performed by a comparison of the asset’s carrying value to the asset’s fair value. When the carrying
value exceeds fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount of the difference. The unit of accounting used to test broadcast licenses represents all licenses owned and operated within an individual market cluster, because such licenses
are used together, are complimentary to each other and are representative of the best use of those assets. The Company’s individual market clusters consist of cities or nearby cities. The Company tests its broadcasting licenses for impairment
based on certain assumptions about these market clusters.    The estimated fair value of indefinite life intangible assets is determined by using an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market
cluster that a hypothetical buyer would expect to generate, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk. The income approach requires the
Company to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin projections and terminal value multiples. The Company estimates the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for
comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to the Company. The Company also estimated the terminal
value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. The Company estimated the revenue projections and profit margin projections based on various market clusters signal coverage of the markets and
industry information for an average station within a given market. The information for each market cluster includes such things as estimated market share, estimated capital start-up costs, population, household income, retail sales and other
expenditures that would influence advertising expenditures. Alternatively, some stations under evaluation have had limited relevant cash flow history due to planned or actual conversion of format or upgrade of station signal. The assumptions the
Company makes about cash flows after conversion are based on the performance of similar stations in similar markets and potential proceeds from the sale of the assets. 
  Concentrations of Credit Risk and Trade Receivables
   The Company’s financial instruments
that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade accounts receivable. The Company from time to time may have bank deposits in excess of the FDIC insurance limits. As of December 31,
2011, substantially all deposits are maintained in one financial institution. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash and cash equivalents. 
  The Company routinely assesses the financial strength of its
customers and, as a consequence, believes that its trade receivable credit risk exposure is limited. Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less an estimate made for doubtful receivables based on a review of all outstanding amounts
on a monthly basis. A valuation allowance is provided for known and anticipated credit losses, as determined by management in the course of regularly evaluating individual customer receivables. This evaluation takes into consideration a
customer’s financial condition and credit history, as well as current economic conditions. Trade receivables are written off when deemed uncollectible. Recoveries of trade receivables previously written off are recorded when received. No
interest is charged on customer accounts.   
Estimated losses for bad debts are provided for in the financial statements through a charge to expense that aggregated $0.9 million, $2.9
million and $2.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 
  F-10



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   

respectively. The net charge off of bad debts aggregated $2.6 million, $4.1 million and $3.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  Dependence on Business Partners 
  The Company is dependent on the continued financial and
business strength of its business partners, such as the companies from whom it obtains programming. The Company could be at risk should any of these entities fail to perform their obligations to the Company. This in turn could materially adversely
affect the Company’s own business, results of operations and financial condition.    Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments   
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate that value:    The carrying
amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.   
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of the Company’s long-term debt was approximately $376.1 million and $428.0
million, respectively, based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities with similar collateral requirements. 
  The carrying values of receivables, payables and accrued
expenses approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.    Off-balance Sheet Financings and Liabilities   
Other than lease commitments, legal contingencies incurred in the normal course of business, appreciation right agreements, employment
contracts for key employees and the interest rate swap agreements (see Notes 7, 9 and 13), the Company does not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities. The Company does not have any majority-owned subsidiaries or any
interests in, or relationships with, any material variable-interest entities that are not included in the consolidated financial statements.   
Income Taxes   
Deferred income taxes are provided on a liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences
and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation
allowance when it is determined to be more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of
enactment.    The Company recognizes the tax benefit
from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements
from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense.

  F-11



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Advertising Costs 
  Amounts incurred for advertising costs with third parties
are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense totaled approximately $0.4 million, $0.3 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    Legal Costs 
  Amounts incurred for legal costs that pertain to loss
contingencies are expensed as incurred.   
Repairs and Maintenance   
All costs associated with repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.    Revenue Recognition 
  Television and radio revenue related to the sale of
advertising is recognized at the time of broadcast. Revenue for contracts with advertising agencies is recorded at an amount that is net of the commission retained by the agency. Revenue from contracts directly with the advertisers is recorded at
gross revenue and the related commission or national representation fee is recorded in operating expense. Cash payments received prior to services rendered result in deferred revenue, which is then recognized as revenue when the advertising time or
space is actually provided.    In August 2008, the
Company entered into a proxy agreement with Univision pursuant to which it granted Univision the right to negotiate as an agent the terms of agreements providing for the carriage of its Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals
by cable, satellite and internet-based television service providers. The agreement also provides terms relating to compensation to be paid to the Company with respect to agreements that are entered into for the carriage of its Univision- and
TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals. Revenue for the carriage of the Company’s Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals is recognized over the life of each agreement with the cable, satellite and
internet-based television service providers. Advertising related to carriage of the Company’s Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals is recognized at the time of broadcast. Retransmission consent revenue was $17.1
million and $13.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.    Trade Transactions    The Company exchanges broadcast time for certain merchandise and services. Trade revenue is recognized when commercials air at the fair value of the goods or services received or the fair value of time
aired, whichever is more readily determinable. Trade expense is recorded when the goods or services are used or received. Trade revenue was approximately $0.8 million, $1.0 million and $1.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. Trade costs were approximately $0.8 million, $1.0 million and $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  Stock-Based Compensation 
  The Company accounts for stock-based compensation according
to the provisions of ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options and employee stock
purchases under the 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Purchase Plan”) based on estimated fair values.   
ASC 718 requires companies to estimate the fair value of stock-based awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model. The value
of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest has been reduced 
  F-12



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   

for estimated forfeitures and is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in the consolidated statements of operations. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised,
if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.    The Company selected the Black-Scholes option pricing model as the most appropriate method for determining the estimated fair value for stock-based awards. The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires
the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions which determine the fair value of stock-based awards, including the option’s expected term, expected volatility of the underlying stock, risk-free rate, and expected dividends. The expected
volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock and other relevant factors. The expected term assumptions are based on the Company’s historical experience and on the terms and conditions of the stock-based
awards. The risk free-rate is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the expected terms of the Company’s stock-based awards.   
The Company classifies cash flows from excess tax benefits from exercised options in excess of the deferred tax asset attributable to
stock-based compensation costs as financing cash flows.    Earnings (Loss) Per Share    The following table illustrates the reconciliation of the basic and diluted per share computations (in thousands, except share and per share data):   
















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31,2011
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31,2010
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31,2009
 

 Basic and diluted earnings per share:
  



 



 




 Numerator:
  



 



 




 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(8,200
) 
 
$
(18,086
) 
 
$
(50,072
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Denominator:
  



 



 




 Weighted average common shares outstanding, basic and diluted
  
 
85,051,066
  
 
 
84,488,930
  
 
 
83,972,709
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Per share:
  



 



 




 Net income (loss) per share applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
(0.21
) 
 
$
(0.60
) 
   Basic earnings per share is
computed as net loss divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution, if any, that could occur from shares issuable through stock options, restricted stock units
and convertible securities.    For the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, dilutive securities have been excluded, as their inclusion would have had an antidilutive effect on loss per share. 610,650, 813,108 and 314,575 equivalent shares of stock options, restricted stock units and
shares purchased under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan were not included in determining the weighted average shares outstanding for diluted loss per share since their inclusion would be antidilutive for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively.    Comprehensive
Income    For the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company had no components of comprehensive income. 
  F-13



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
  In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-4, “Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS” (“ASU 2011-4”). The guidance results
in a consistent definition of fair value and common requirements for measurement of and disclosure about fair value between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-4 is effective during interim and annual periods
beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this standard on the consolidated financial statements.   
3. ACQUISITIONS 
  Upon consummation of each acquisition the
Company evaluates whether the acquisition constitutes a business. An acquisition is considered a business if it is comprised of a complete self-sustaining integrated set of activities and assets consisting of inputs and processes applied to those
inputs that are used to generate revenues. For a transferred set of activities and assets to be a business, it must contain all of the inputs and processes necessary for it to continue to conduct normal operations after the transferred set is
separated from the transferor, which includes the ability to sustain a revenue stream by providing its outputs to customers. A transferred set of activities and assets fails the definition of a business if it excludes one or more significant items
such that it is not possible for the set to continue normal operations and sustain a revenue stream by providing its products and/or services to customers.   
All business acquisitions have been accounted for as purchase business combinations with the operations of the businesses included
subsequent to their acquisition dates. The allocation of the respective purchase prices is generally based upon independent appraisals and or management’s estimates of the discounted future cash flows to be generated from the media properties
for intangible assets, and replacement cost for tangible assets. Deferred income taxes are provided for temporary differences based upon management’s best estimate of the tax basis of acquired assets and liabilities that will ultimately be
accepted by the applicable taxing authority.   
2011 Acquisition   
On January 3, 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of Lotus/Entravision Reps LLC (“LER”), a representation firm that
sells national spots and digital advertising to advertising agencies on behalf of the Company and other clients. The Company previously owned 50% of LER which was accounted for under the equity method. The Company decided to acquire the 50% of LER
that it did not own in order to integrate LER’s operations with the Company’s radio operations. The Company paid $1.1 million for the remaining 50% of LER. 
  As a result of the Company obtaining control of LER, the
Company’s previously-held 50% interest was remeasured to its fair value of $1.1 million. The resulting gain of $0.7 million is included in the line item ‘Other income (loss)’ on the consolidated statement of operations. 
  F-14



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
The following is a summary of the purchase price allocation for the Company’s
acquisition of LER (in millions):   








 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
 0.5
  

 Trade accounts receivable
  
 
2.1
  

 Prepaids and other assets
  
 
0.1
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
0.1
  

 Intangible assets subject to amortization
  
 
0.5
  

 Goodwill
  
 
0.7
  

 Current liabilities
  
 
(1.8
) 


  
  
  
 


  
$
2.2
  


  
  
  
 
   The goodwill, which is
expected to be deductible for tax purposes, is assigned to the radio broadcasting segment and is attributable to expected synergies from combining LER’s operations with the Company’s. 
  The acquired receivables approximate their fair value
inclusive of collection risk, which was not significant. Acquisition-related costs were not significant and LER’s historical revenue and net income were not significant to the Company’s results for any of the periods presented. 
  2009 Acquisition 
  In April 2009, the Company acquired the assets of television
station KREN-TV, serving the Reno, Nevada market, which was consolidated as a variable interest entity in December 2008, for approximately $4.3 million. The Company reduced the carrying value of the assets of television station KREN-TV to its fair
value of $1.6 million by recording a carrying value adjustment of $2.7 million, which is included in the consolidated statements of operations for continuing operations. 
  The Company evaluated the transferred set of activities,
assets, inputs and processes applied to those inputs in this acquisition and determined that the acquisition did not constitute a business. The following is a summary of the purchase price allocation (in millions): 
 








 Property and equipment
  
$
1.4
  

 Intangible assets subject to amortization
  
 
0.1
  

 Intangible assets not subject to amortization (FCC licenses)
  
 
0.1
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
1.6
  


  
  
  
 
  
4. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
  The carrying amount of goodwill for each
of the Company’s operating segments for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Television
 
  
Radio
 
  
Total
 

 December 31, 2010
  
$
35,912
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
35,912
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 LER acquisition
  
 
—  
  
  
 
735
  
  
 
735
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 December 31, 2011
  
$
35,912
  
  
$
735
  
  
$
36,647
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-15



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
The composition of the Company’s acquired intangible assets and the associated
accumulated amortization as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows (in thousands):   
































 
 
 
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
Weightedaverageremaininglife inyears
 
 
Gross CarryingAmount
 
 
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net Carrying Amount
 
 
Gross CarryingAmount
 
 
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net CarryingAmount
 

 Intangible assets subject to amortization:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Television network affiliation agreements
 
 
10
  
 
$
65,089
  
 
$
41,577
  
 
$
23,512
  
 
$
63,839
  
 
$
37,959
  
 
$
25,880
  

 Customer base
 
 
5
  
 
 
746
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
454
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
 
 
28
  
 
 
25,155
  
 
 
24,523
  
 
 
632
  
 
 
25,155
  
 
 
24,420
  
 
 
735
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total intangible assets subject to amortization
 



 
$
90,990
  
 
$
66,392
  
 
 
24,598
  
 
$
89,195
  
 
$
62,580
  
 
 
26,615
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Intangible assets not subject to amortization:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 FCC licenses
 



 



 



 
 
220,701
  
 



 



 
 
220,023
  


 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total intangible assets
 



 



 



 
$
245,299
  
 



 



 
$
246,638
  


 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 The aggregate amount of amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was
approximately $3.8 million, $3.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for each of the years ended December 31, 2012 through 2016 is as follows (in thousands): 
 








 Estimated Amortization Expense
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
2,700
  

 2013
  
 
2,400
  

 2014
  
 
2,400
  

 2015
  
 
2,400
  

 2016
  
 
2,400
  
   Impairment
   The Company has identified each of its
two operating segments to be separate reporting units: television broadcasting and radio broadcasting. The carrying values of the reporting units are determined by allocating all applicable assets (including goodwill) and liabilities based upon the
unit in which the assets are employed and to which the liabilities relate, considering the methodologies utilized to determine the fair value of the reporting units. 
  Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are not amortized
but are tested annually for impairment, or more frequently, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. The annual testing date is October 1.    2011   
The Company conducted a review of the fair value of the radio reporting unit in 2011. The fair value was primarily determined by using a
combination of a market approach and an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current
market conditions, which reflect the overall level 
  F-16



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   

of inherent risk of that reporting unit. The income approach also requires the Company to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin projections and
terminal value multiples. The Company estimated the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded
companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to the Company. The Company also estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in radio industry. The Company estimated the
revenue projections and profit margin projections based on internal forecasts about future performance. The market-based approach used comparable company earnings multiples. Based on the assumptions and projections, the radio reporting unit’s
fair value was greater than its carrying value. As a result, the Company passed the first step of the goodwill impairment test and no impairment of goodwill of the radio reporting unit was recorded. 
  The Company also conducted a review of the television
reporting unit. The Company performed a qualitative assessment and determined that it is more likely than not that its fair value is greater than its carrying amount. As such, the two-step impairment test was unnecessary and no impairment of
goodwill of the television reporting unit was recorded.    The Company also conducted a review of the fair value of the television and radio FCC licenses in 2011. The estimated fair value of indefinite life intangible assets is determined by an income approach.
The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market cluster that a hypothetical buyer would expect to generate, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market
conditions, which reflect the level of inherent risk. The income approach requires the Company to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin projections and terminal value multiples. The Company
estimates the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded companies have similar size, operating
characteristics and/or financial profiles to the Company. The Company also estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. The Company estimated the revenue projections and
profit margin projections based on various market clusters signal coverage of the markets and industry information for an average station within a given market. The information for each market cluster includes such things as estimated market share,
estimated capital start-up costs, population, household income, retail sales and other expenditures that would influence advertising expenditures. Alternatively, some stations under evaluation have had limited relevant cash flow history due to
planned or actual conversion of format or upgrade of station signal. The assumptions the Company makes about cash flows after conversion are based on the performance of similar stations in similar markets and potential proceeds from the sale of the
assets. Based on the assumptions and estimates, the Company did not record impairment of FCC licenses.   
2010   
The Company conducted a review of the fair value of the radio reporting unit in 2010. The fair value was primarily determined by using a
combination of a market approach and an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current
market conditions, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk of that reporting unit. The income approach also requires the Company to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin projections and
terminal value multiples. The Company estimated the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded
companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to the Company. The Company also estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and

  F-17



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   

radio industries. The Company estimated the revenue projections and profit margin projections based on internal forecasts about future performance. The market-based approach used comparable
company earnings multiples. Based on the assumptions and projections, the radio reporting unit’s fair value was less than its carrying value. As a result, the Company recognized impairment losses of $10 million relating to goodwill. 
  The Company also conducted a review of the fair value of the
television reporting unit estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of the television reporting unit was greater than its carrying values so the reporting unit passed the first step of the goodwill impairment test and no impairment of goodwill
of the television reporting unit was recorded.   
The Company also conducted a review of the fair value of the television and radio FCC licenses in 2010. The estimated fair value of
indefinite life intangible assets is determined by an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market cluster that a hypothetical buyer would expect to generate, discounted by an
estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the level of inherent risk. The income approach requires the Company to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections,
profit margin projections and terminal value multiples. The Company estimates the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These
comparable publicly-traded companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to the Company. The Company also estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and
radio industries. The Company estimated the revenue projections and profit margin projections based on various market clusters signal coverage of the markets and industry information for an average station within a given market. The information for
each market cluster includes such things as estimated market share, estimated capital start-up costs, population, household income, retail sales and other expenditures that would influence advertising expenditures. Alternatively, some stations under
evaluation have had limited relevant cash flow history due to planned or actual conversion of format or upgrade of station signal. The assumptions the Company makes about cash flows after conversion are based on the performance of similar stations
in similar markets and potential proceeds from the sale of the assets. Based on the assumptions and estimates, the Company recognized impairment losses of $24 million relating to television FCC licenses and $3 million relating to radio FCC licenses.
   2009 
  The Company conducted a review of the fair value of the
television and radio FCC licenses in 2009. The estimated fair value of indefinite life intangible assets is determined by an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market cluster,
discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the level of inherent risk. The income approach also requires the Company to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates,
revenue projections, profit margin projections and terminal value multiples. Based on the assumptions and estimates described above, the Company recognized impairment losses of $48 million relating to radio FCC licenses. 
  The Company conducted a review of the fair value of the
television and radio reporting unit’s estimated fair values. The estimated fair values of the television and radio reporting units were greater than their respective carrying values so the reporting units passed the first step of the goodwill
impairment test and no impairment of goodwill was recorded. 
  F-18



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
5. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT 
  Property and equipment as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010 consists of (in millions):   
















 
  
Estimateduseful life(years)
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Buildings
  
 
39
  
  
$
18.5
  
  
$
18.5
  

 Construction in progress
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2.2
  
  
 
1.3
  

 Transmission, studio and other broadcast equipment
  
 
5-15
  
  
 
156.7
  
  
 
151.6
  

 Office and computer equipment
  
 
3-7
  
  
 
22.5
  
  
 
21.2
  

 Transportation equipment
  
 
5
  
  
 
6.0
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Leasehold improvements and land improvements
  
   
Lesser oflease life oruseful life
    
  
 
21.1
  
  
 
20.2
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  



  
 
227.0
  
  
 
218.8
  

 Less accumulated depreciation
  



  
 
169.2
  
  
 
154.4
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  



  
 
57.8
  
  
 
64.4
  

 Land
  



  
 
7.4
  
  
 
7.4
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  



  
$
65.2
  
  
$
71.8
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
6. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES 
  Accounts payable and accrued expenses as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010 consist of (in millions):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Accounts payable
  
$
5.6
  
  
$
3.3
  

 Accrued payroll and compensated absences
  
 
4.7
  
  
 
4.0
  

 Professional fees
  
 
0.6
  
  
 
1.2
  

 Accrued interest
  
 
14.1
  
  
 
15.1
  

 Deferred revenue
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
2.6
  

 Accrued national representation fees
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
2.4
  

 Other
  
 
10.4
  
  
 
9.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
39.8
  
  
$
38.5
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
7. LONG-TERM DEBT
  Long-term debt as of December 31,
2011 and 2010 is summarized as follows (in millions):   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Notes, net of discount of $4.1 million and $4.9 million
  
$
379.7
  
  
$
395.1
  

 Time brokerage contract payable, due in annual installments of $1 million bearing interest at 5.806% through June
2011
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
379.7
  
  
 
396.1
  

 Less current maturities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
379.7
  
  
$
395.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-19



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
The scheduled maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2011 are as follows
(in millions):   








 Year
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
—  
  

 2013
  
 
—  
  

 2014
  
 
—  
  

 2015
  
 
—  
  

 2016
  
 
—  
  

 Thereafter
  
 
383.8
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
383.8
  


  
  
  
 
   For the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized an increase of $0.6 million and $0.2 million in interest expense, repectively, related to amortization of the bond discount. 
  Notes 
  On July 27, 2010, the Company completed the offering
and sale of $400 million aggregate principal amount of its 8.75% Senior Secured First Lien Notes (the “Notes”). The Notes were issued at a discount of 98.722% of their principal amount and mature on August 1, 2017. Interest on the
Notes accrues at a rate of 8.75% per annum from the date of original issuance and is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2011. The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $388 million from the sale of the Notes (net of bond discount of $5 million and fees of $7 million), which were used to pay all indebtedness outstanding under the previous syndicated bank credit facility, terminate the related interest
rate swap agreements, pay fees and expenses related to the offering of the Notes and for general corporate purposes.   
During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company purchased Notes on the open market with a principal amount of $16.2 million. The Company
recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $0.4 million primarily due to the write off of unamortized finance costs and unamortized bond discount.   
The Notes are guaranteed on a senior secured basis by all of the existing and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries (the “Note
Guarantors”). The Notes and the guarantees rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company’s and the guarantors’ existing and future senior indebtedness and senior in right of payment to all of the Company’s and the Note
Guarantors’ existing and future subordinated indebtedness. In addition, the Notes and the guarantees are effectively junior: (i) to the Company’s and the Note Guarantors’ indebtedness secured by assets that are not collateral;
(ii) pursuant to an Intercreditor Agreement entered into at the same time that the Company entered into the 2010 Credit Facility described below; and (iii) to all of the liabilities of any of the Company’s existing and future
subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Notes, to the extent of the assets of those subsidiaries. The Notes are secured by substantially all of the assets, as well as the pledge of the stock of substantially all of the subsidiaries, including the
special purpose subsidiary formed to hold the Company’s FCC licenses.    At the Company’s option, the Company may redeem:   


 
•
 
 prior to August 1, 2013, on one or more occasions, up to 10% of the original principal amount of the Notes during each 12-month period beginning
on August 1, 2010, at a redemption price equal to 103% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest;   


 
•
 
 prior to August 1, 2013, on one or more occasions, up to 35% of the original principal amount of the Notes with the net proceeds from certain
equity offerings, at a redemption price of 108.750% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest; provided that: (i) at least 65% of the 
  F-20



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   


 
 
aggregate principal amount of all Notes issued under the Indenture remains outstanding immediately after such redemption; and (ii) such redemption occurs within 60 days of the date of
closing of any such equity offering;   


 
•
 
 prior to August 1, 2013, some or all of the Notes may be redeemed at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus a
“make-whole” premium plus accrued and unpaid interest; and   


 
•
 
 on or after August 1, 2013, some or all of the Notes may be redeemed at a redemption price of: (i) 106.563% of the principal amount of the
Notes if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1, 2013; (ii) 104.375% of the principal amount of the Notes if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1, 2014; (iii) 102.188% of the
principal amount of the Notes if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1, 2015; and (iv) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes if redeemed on or after August 1, 2016, in each case plus accrued and unpaid
interest.    In addition, upon a
change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the issuance of the Notes (the “Indenture”), the Company must make an offer to repurchase all Notes then outstanding, at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal
amount of the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, the Company may at any time and from time to time purchase Notes in the open market or otherwise. 
  Upon an event of default, as defined in the Indenture, the
Notes will become due and payable: (i) immediately without further notice if such event of default arises from events of bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company, any Note Guarantor or any restricted subsidiary; or (ii) upon a declaration
of acceleration of the Notes in writing to the Company by the Trustee or holders representing 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, if an event of default occurs and is continuing. The Indenture contains additional
provisions that are customary for an agreement of this type, including indemnification by the Company and the Note Guarantors.   
The carrying amount and estimated fair value of the Notes as of December 31, 2011 was $383.8 million and $376.1 million,
respectively. The estimated fair value is based on quoted market prices for the Notes.    2010 Credit Facility    On July 27, 2010, the Company also entered into a new $50 million revolving credit facility (“2010 Credit Facility”) and terminated the amended syndicated bank credit facility agreement.
The 2010 Credit Facility consists of a three-year $50 million revolving credit facility that expires on July 27, 2013, which includes a $3 million sub-facility for letters of credit. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately
$0.7 million in outstanding letters of credit. In addition, the Company may increase the aggregate principal amount of the 2010 Credit Facility by up to an additional $50 million, subject to the Company satisfying certain conditions. The Company
currently has no outstanding borrowings under the 2010 Credit Facility.    Borrowings under the 2010 Credit Facility bear interest at either: (i) the Base Rate (as defined in the credit agreement governing the 2010 Credit Facility (the “Credit Agreement”)) plus a
margin of 3.375% per annum; or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin of 4.375% per annum. The Company has not drawn on the 2010 Credit Facility.   
The 2010 Credit Facility is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by all of the Company’s existing and future wholly-owned domestic
subsidiaries (the “Credit Guarantors”), which are also the Note Guarantors (collectively, the “Guarantors”). The 2010 Credit Facility is secured on a first priority basis by the Company’s and the Credit Guarantors’
assets, which also secure the Notes. The Company’s borrowings, if any, under the 2010 Credit Facility rank senior to the Notes upon the terms set forth in the Intercreditor Agreement that the Company

  F-21



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   

entered into in connection with the 2010 Credit Facility. The 2010 Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets, as well as the pledge of the stock of substantially all of the
subsidiaries, including the special purpose subsidiary formed to hold the Company’s FCC licenses.   
The Credit Agreement also requires compliance with certain financial covenants, relating to total leverage ratio, fixed charge coverage
ratio, cash interest coverage ratio and revolving credit facility leverage ratio. The covenants become increasingly restrictive in the later years of the 2010 Credit Facility. 
  Upon an event of default, as defined in the Credit Agreement,
the lenders may, among other things, suspend or terminate their obligation to make further loans to the Company and/or declare all amounts then outstanding under the 2010 Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable. The Credit Agreement also
contains additional provisions that are customary for an agreement of this type, including indemnification by the Company and the Credit Guarantors.   
In connection with the Company entering into the Indenture and the Credit Agreement, the Company and the Guarantors also entered into the
following agreements:   


 
•
 
 A Security Agreement, pursuant to which the Company and the Guarantors each granted a first priority security interests in the collateral securing the
Notes and the 2010 Credit Facility for the benefit of the holders of the Notes and the lenders under the 2010 Credit Facility; and   


 
•
 
 An Intercreditor Agreement, in order to define the relative rights of the holders of the Notes and the lenders under the 2010 Credit Facility with
respect to the collateral securing the Company’s and the Guarantors’ respective obligations under the Notes and the 2010 Credit Facility. 
  As a result of the termination of the Company’s previous
syndicated bank credit facility, the Company is no longer subject to the financial covenants associated with the syndicated bank credit facility. However, subject to certain exceptions, both the Indenture and the Credit Agreement contain various
provisions that limit the Company’s ability, among other things, to:   


 
•
 
 incur additional indebtedness;   


 
•
 
 incur liens;   


 
•
 
 merge, dissolve, consolidate, or sell all or substantially all of our assets; 
 


 
•
 
 make certain investments;   


 
•
 
 make certain restricted payments;   


 
•
 
 declare certain dividends or distributions or repurchase shares of our capital stock; 
 


 
•
 
 enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and 
 


 
•
 
 change the nature of our business.   
In addition, the Indenture contains various provisions that limit the Company’s ability to: 
 


 
•
 
 apply the proceeds from certain asset sales other than in accordance with the terms of the Indenture; and 
 


 
•
 
 restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries. 
  In addition, the Credit Agreement contains various provisions
that limit the Company’s ability to:   


 
•
 
 dispose of certain assets; and   


 
•
 
 amend the Company’s or any guarantor’s organizational documents of the Company in any way that is materially adverse to the lenders under the
2010 Credit Facility. 
  F-22



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Moreover, if the Company fails to comply with any of the financial covenants or ratios
under the 2010 Credit Facility, the lenders could:   


 
•
 
 Elect to declare all amounts borrowed to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; and/or
  


 
•
 
 Terminate their commitments, if any, to make further extensions of credit.    In addition, if our total leverage ratio exceeds 6.50 to 1.00 as of the end of the most recently completed
fiscal quarter, the maximum principal outstanding amount of all loans under our 2010 Credit Facility cannot exceed $25.0 million. In the event that the maximum principal outstanding amount exceeds $25.0 million in that case, we must immediately
prepay outstanding revolving loans in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess. Under our 2010 Credit Facility, our total leverage ratio may not exceed 7.00 to 1. 
  Syndicated Bank Credit Facility 
  In July 2010, the Company repaid all amounts outstanding
under its previous syndicated bank credit facility and terminated the amended syndicated bank credit facility agreement. All references to and discussions regarding the syndicated bank credit facility and the amended syndicated bank credit facility
agreement in this report should be considered in light of this fact.    In September 2005, the Company entered into its previous $650 million senior secured syndicated bank credit facility, consisting of a 7  1/2 year $500 million term loan and a 6  1/2 year $150 million new facility. The term loan under the syndicated
bank credit facility had been drawn in full, the proceeds of which were used (i) to refinance $250 million outstanding under the former syndicated bank credit facility, (ii) to complete a tender offer for the previously outstanding $225
million senior subordinated notes, and (iii) for general corporate purposes. The Company’s ability to make additional borrowings under the syndicated bank credit facility was subject to compliance with certain financial covenants,
including financial ratios, and other conditions set forth in the syndicated bank credit facility.   
On March 16, 2009, the Company entered into an amendment to its previous syndicated bank credit facility agreement. Pursuant to this
amendment, among other things:   


 
•
 
 The interest that the Company paid under the credit facility increased. Both the revolver and term loan borrowings under the amendment bore interest at
a variable interest rate based on either LIBOR or a base rate, in either case plus an applicable margin that varies depending upon the leverage ratio. Borrowings under both the revolver and term loan bore interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 5.25%
when the leverage ratio was greater than or equal to 5.0.   


 
•
 
 The total amount of the revolver facility was reduced from $150 million to $50 million. The new facility bore interest at LIBOR plus a margin ranging
from 3.25% to 5.25% based on leverage covenants. In addition, the Company paid a quarterly unused commitment fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50% per annum, depending on the level of facility used. 
 


 
•
 
 There were more stringent financial covenants relating to maximum allowed leverage ratio, maximum capital expenditures and fixed charge coverage ratio.
Beginning March 16, 2009 through December 31, 2009, the maximum allowed leverage ratio, or the ratio of consolidated total debt to trailing-twelve-month consolidated adjusted EBITDA, was 6.75. The maximum allowed leverage ratio decreased
to 6.50 in the first quarter of 2010.   


 
•
 
 There was a mandatory prepayment clause for 100% of the proceeds of certain asset dispositions, regardless of the leverage ratio. In addition, if the
Company had excess cash flow, as defined in the 
  F-23



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   


 
 
syndicated bank credit facility, 75% of such excess cash flow must be used to reduce the outstanding loan balance on a quarterly basis. 
 


 
•
 
 Beginning March 31, 2009, the senior leverage ratio and net leverage ratio were eliminated. 
 


 
•
 
 The Company was restricted from making future repurchases of shares of common stock, except under a limited circumstance, which the Company utilized in
May 2009.    The amended
syndicated bank credit facility also required the Company to maintain FCC licenses for broadcast properties and continued restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, the payment of dividends, the marking of acquisitions and the sale of
assets.    The amendment also contained additional
covenants, representations and provisions that are usual and customary for credit facilities of this type. All other provisions of the credit facility agreement, as amended, remain in full force and effect unless expressly amended or modified by the
amendment.    At the time of entering into this
amendment, the Company made a prepayment of $40 million to reduce the outstanding amount of the term loans and paid the lenders an amendment fee.   
The Company recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $1.0 million for fees and unamortized finance costs associated with the termination
of the syndicated bank credit facility during the year ended December 31, 2010.    The Company recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $4.7 million for fees, unamortized finance costs and interest rate swap agreement termination costs associated with the amendment to the syndicated
bank credit facility during the year ended December 31, 2009.    Derivative Instruments    All of the interest rate swap agreements were terminated on July 27, 2010. All references to and discussions regarding the derivative instruments in this report should be considered in light of this
fact.    The Company used interest rate swap
agreements to manage its exposure to the risks associated with changes in interest rates. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for speculation or trading purposes. The interest rate swap agreements converted a portion of the
variable rate term loan into a fixed rate obligation. These interest rate swap agreements were not designated for hedge accounting treatment, and as a result, changes in their fair values were reflected in earnings. 
  For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company
recognized a decrease of $13.4 million in interest expense related to the increase in fair value of the interest rate swap agreements. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recognized a decrease of $7.0 million in interest expense
related to the increase in fair value of the interest rate swap agreements. The following table presents the effect of the interest rate swap agreements on the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009
(in millions):   
















 
  
Location ofIncome
(Loss)
 
  
December 31,
 

 Derivatives Not Designated As
Hedging Instruments
  
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Interest rate swap agreements
  
 
Interest expense
  
  
$
13.4
  
  
$
7.0
  
   Fair Value Measurements
   ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurements
and Disclosures”, defines and establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. In 2009, the Company adopted ASC 820 
  F-24



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   

related to the accounting and disclosure of fair value measurements for nonfinancial assets and liabilities. In accordance with ASC 820, the Company has categorized its nonfinancial assets and
liabilities, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three-level fair value hierarchy as set forth below.   
Level 1 – Assets and liabilities whose values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an
active market that the company has the ability to access at the measurement date.    Level 2 – Assets and liabilities whose values are based on quoted prices for similar attributes in active markets; quoted prices in markets where trading occurs infrequently; and inputs other
than quoted prices that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.   
Level 3 – Assets and liabilities whose values are based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both
unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.    If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value
measurement of the instrument.    The following
table presents the Company’s nonfinancial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, based on the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2010 (in millions): 
 








 
  
Level 3
 

 Nonfinancial Assets
  
2010
 

 Intangible assets not subject to amortization (FCC licenses)
  
$
67.8
  
   In 2010, the Company wrote
down its TV and radio FCC licenses with carrying amounts of $94.0 million to their fair values of $67.8 million and as a result, recognized impairment losses of $26.2 million, which the Company included in impairment charge on the consolidated
statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010. In 2010 the Company wrote down its radio goodwill with a carrying amount of $9.9 million to $0, and as a result, recognized an impairment loss of $9.9 million, which the Company
included in impairment charge on the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010. For further discussion on the calculation of fair value and the determination of impairment see Note 4, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets”.   
8. INCOME TAXES 
  The provision (benefit) for income taxes
from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current
  



  



 




 Federal
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(1.1
) 
 
$
—  
  

 State
  
 
0.4
  
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
1.0
  

 Foreign
  
 
0.6
  
  
 
0.3
  
 
 
0.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
1.0
  
  
 
(0.7
) 
 
 
1.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred
  



  



 




 Federal
  
 
4.4
  
  
 
(2.8
) 
 
 
(2.2
) 

 State
  
 
0.4
  
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
(0.9
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
4.8
  
  
 
(2.7
) 
 
 
(3.1
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total provision for taxes
  
$
5.8
  
  
$
(3.4
) 
 
$
(1.9
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-25



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
The income tax provision (benefit) differs from the amount of income tax determined by
applying the U.S. federal income tax rate of 34% to pre-tax income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 due to the following (in millions):   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Computed “expected” tax provision (benefit)
  
$
(0.8
) 
 
$
(7.4
) 
 
$
(17.7
) 

 Change in income tax resulting from:
  



 



 




 State taxes, net of federal benefit
  
 
0.4
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
—  
  

 Goodwill impairment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2.9
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign taxes
  
 
0.6
  
 
 
0.3
  
 
 
0.2
  

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
5.6
  
 
 
1.0
  
 
 
15.5
  

 FIN 48 adjustment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(0.4
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
—  
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
5.8
  
 
$
(3.4
) 
 
$
(1.9
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The components of the
deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 consist of the following (in millions):   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Accrued expenses
  
$
3.0
  
 
$
3.1
  

 Accounts receivable
  
 
2.6
  
 
 
3.1
  

 Net operating loss carryforward
  
 
103.7
  
 
 
85.4
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
4.3
  
 
 
4.3
  

 Capital loss in investment in a domestic subsidiary
  
 
10.4
  
 
 
10.3
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
36.6
  
 
 
48.2
  

 Credits
  
 
1.0
  
 
 
1.0
  

 Other
  
 
3.4
  
 
 
4.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
165.0
  
 
 
159.7
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(148.4
) 
 
 
(142.6
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
$
16.6
  
 
$
17.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Non-long lived intangible assets
  
$
(4.3
) 
 
$
(4.5
) 

 Long-lived Intangible assets
  
 
(42.9
) 
 
 
(37.9
) 

 Property and equipment
  
 
(3.0
) 
 
 
(3.8
) 

 Deferred state taxes
  
 
(5.9
) 
 
 
(5.7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
(56.1
) 
 
 
(51.9
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
(39.5
) 
 
$
(34.8
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Deferred income tax amounts
are classified on the balance sheet as follows (in millions):   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
$
0.5
  
 
$
0.6
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
(40.0
) 
 
 
(35.4
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
(39.5
) 
 
$
(34.8
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-26



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
As of December 31, 2011, the Company has federal and state net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $277.0 and $188.0 million, respectively, available to offset future taxable income. The net operating loss carryforwards will continue to expire during the years 2012 through 2031. 
  For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the
Company had a valuation allowance of $148.4 million and $142.6 million, respectively, as the Company believes that it is more likely than not that its tax assets will not be fully realized.    As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s utilization of its available net operating loss carryforwards
against future taxable income is not restricted pursuant to the “change in ownership” rules in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. However in subsequent periods, the utilization of its available net operating loss carryforwards
against future taxable income may be restricted pursuant to the “change in ownership” rules in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. These rules in general provide that an ownership change occurs when the percentage shareholdings
of 5% direct or indirect shareholders of a loss corporation have in aggregate increased by more than 50 percentage points during the immediately preceding three years. 
  The Company addresses uncertainty in tax positions according
to the provisions of ASC 740, “Income Taxes”, which clarifies the accounting for income taxes by establishing the minimum recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return in
order to be recognized in the financial statements.   
The following table summarizes the activity related to the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits (in millions): 
 








 
  
Amount
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
$
6.8
  

 Change in balances related to tax positions
  
 
(0.4
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
6.4
  

 Change in balances related to tax positions
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
6.4
  


  
  
  
 
   As of December 31, 2011,
the Company had $6.4 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, of which $0.9 million would affect the effective tax rate if recognized. 
  The Company does not anticipate that the amount of
unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2011 will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months.   
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters as a component of income tax expense. As of December 31,
2011, the Company had no accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions due to the net operating loss.   
The Company is subject to taxation in the United States, various states and Mexico. The tax years 2008 to 2011 and 2007 to 2011 remain
open to examination by federal and state taxing jurisdictions, respectively, and the tax years 2001 to 2011 remain open to examination by foreign jurisdiction. Net operating losses from years from which the statute of limitations have expired (2007
and prior for federal and 2006 and prior for state) could be adjusted in the event that the taxing jurisdictions challenge the amounts of net operating loss carryforwards from such years. 
  F-27



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
9. COMMITMENTS & CONTINGENCIES 
  The Company has non-cancelable agreements
with certain media research and ratings providers, expiring at various dates through December 2015, to provide television and radio audience measurement services. Pursuant to these agreements, the Company is obligated to pay these providers a total
of approximately $25.6 million. The annual commitments range from $6.2 million to $6.7 million.    The Company leases facilities and broadcast equipment under various non-cancelable operating lease agreements with various terms and conditions, expiring at various dates through November 2050.
   The Company’s corporate headquarters are
located in Santa Monica, California. The Company leases approximately 16,000 square feet of space in the building housing its corporate headquarters under a lease expiring in 2021. The Company also leases approximately 45,000 square feet of space in
the building housing its radio network in Los Angeles, California, under a lease expiring in 2016.    The types of properties required to support each of the Company’s television and radio stations typically include offices, broadcasting studios and antenna towers where broadcasting transmitters and
antenna equipment are located. The majority of the Company’s office, studio and tower facilities are leased pursuant to non-cancelable long-term leases. The Company also owns the buildings and/or land used for office, studio and tower
facilities at certain of its television and/or radio properties. The Company owns substantially all of the equipment used in its television and radio broadcasting business. 
  The approximate future minimum lease payments under these
non-cancelable operating leases at December 31, 2011 are as follows (in millions):   








 
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
8.0
  

 2013
  
 
6.8
  

 2014
  
 
6.6
  

 2015
  
 
6.2
  

 2016
  
 
4.8
  

 Thereafter
  
 
19.8
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
52.2
  


  
  
  
 
   Total rent expense under
operating leases, including rent under month-to-month arrangements, was approximately $10.1 million, $10.4 million and $10.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  Employment Agreements 
  The Company has entered into employment agreements (the
“Employment Agreements”) with two executive officers, who are also stockholders and directors, through December 2013. The Employment Agreements provide that a minimum annual base salary and a bonus be paid to each of the executives. The
company paid a total of $0.3 million of bonuses to these executives for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company did not pay bonuses to these two executives for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009. Additionally, the Employment
Agreements provide for a continuation of each executive’s annual base salary and annual bonus through the end of the employment period if the executive is terminated due to a permanent disability or without cause, as defined in the Employment
Agreements. 
  F-28



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
10. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
  The Second Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company authorizes both common and preferred stock.    Common Stock    The Company’s common stock has three classes, identified as A, B and U. The Class A common stock and Class B common stock have similar rights and privileges, except that the Class B common stock
is entitled to ten votes per share as compared to one vote per share for the Class A common stock. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at the holder’s option into one fully paid and nonassessable share of Class A common
stock and is required to be converted into one share of Class A common stock upon the occurrence of certain events as defined in the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. 
  The Class U common stock, which is held by Univision, has
limited voting rights and does not include the right to elect directors. Each share of Class U common stock is automatically convertible into one share of the Company’s Class A common stock (subject to adjustment for stock splits,
dividends or combinations) in connection with any transfer to a third party that is not an affiliate of Univision.   
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid a cash dividend of $0.06 per share, or $5.1 million, on all shares of
Class A, Class B, and Class U common stock.   
Treasury Stock   
On November 1, 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a $100 million stock repurchase program. The Company was
authorized to repurchase up to $100 million of its outstanding Class A common stock from time to time in open market transactions at prevailing market prices, block trades and private repurchases. On April 7, 2008, the Company’s Board
of Directors approved an additional $100 million stock repurchase program. The Company has repurchased a total of 20.8 million shares of Class A common stock for approximately $120.3 million under both plans from inception through
December 31, 2011. We did not repurchase any shares of Class A common stock during 2010 or 2011. Subject to certain exceptions, both the Indenture and the Credit Agreement contain various provisions that limit the Company’s ability to
make future repurchases of shares of the Company’s common stock.   
11. EQUITY INCENTIVE PLANS 
  In May 2004, the Company adopted its 2004
Equity Incentive Plan (“2004 Plan”), which replaced its 2000 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (“2000 Plan”). The 2000 Plan had allowed for the award of up to 11,500,000 shares of Class A common stock. The 2004 Plan allows for
the award of up to 10,000,000 shares of Class A common stock, plus any grants remaining available at its adoption date under the 2000 Plan. Awards under the 2004 Plan may be in the form of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options,
stock appreciation rights, restricted stock or restricted stock units. The 2004 Plan is administered by a committee appointed by the Board. This committee determines the type, number, vesting requirements and other features and conditions of such
awards. Generally, stock options granted from the 2000 Plan have a contractual term of ten years from the date of the grant and vest over four or five years and stock options granted from the 2004 Plan have a contractual term of ten years from the
date of the grant and vest over four years.    The
2004 Plan was amended by the Compensation Committee effective July 13, 2006 to (i) eliminate automatic option grants for non-employee directors, making any grants to such directors discretionary by the Compensation Committee and
(ii) eliminate the three-year minimum vesting period for performance-based 
  F-29



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   

restricted stock and restricted stock units, making the vesting period for such grants discretionary by the Compensation Committee.    The Company has issued stock options and restricted stock units to various employees and non-employee directors
of the Company in addition to non-employee service providers under both the 2004 Plan and the 2000 Plan.   
The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercise of share-based payment arrangements for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was insignificant.    Stock Options    The fair value of each stock option is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. Stock-based compensation expense
related to stock options is based on the fair value on the date of grant and is amortized over the vesting period, generally between 1 to 3 years. Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock. The Company uses
historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination within the valuation model. The expected term of stock options granted is based on historical contractual life and the vesting data of the stock options. The risk-free rate for
periods within the contractual life of the stock option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.   
The fair value of each stock option granted was estimated using the following weighted-average assumptions: 
 
















 
  
Year EndedDecember 31,2011
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31,2010
 
 
Year EndedDecember 31,2009
 

 Fair value of options granted
  
$
1.33
  
 
$
2.10
  
 
$
1.20
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
78
% 
 
 
79
% 
 
 
80
% 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.2
% 
 
 
2.8
% 
 
 
2.9
% 

 Expected lives
  
 
7.0 years
  
 
 
7.0 years
  
 
 
7.0 years
  

 Dividend rate
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

  F-30



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
The following is a summary of stock option activity: (in thousands, except exercise
price data and contractual life data):   




















 Options
  
NumberofShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualLife (Years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2008
  
 
8,308
  
 
$
11.06
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Granted
  
 
2,394
  
 
$
1.62
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  



  
$
—  
  

 Forfeited or cancelled
  
 
(533
) 
 
 
9.96
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2009
  
 
10,169
  
 
$
8.90
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Granted
  
 
200
  
 
$
2.87
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(138
) 
 
 
1.73
  
  



  
$
192
  

 Forfeited or cancelled
  
 
(2,375
) 
 
 
14.68
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
7,856
  
 
$
7.12
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Granted
  
 
260
  
 
$
2.03
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(25
) 
 
 
1.73
  
  



  
$
14
  

 Forfeited or cancelled
  
 
(886
) 
 
 
9.39
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
7,205
  
 
$
6.68
  
  
 
4.10
  
  
$
220
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
6,948
  
 
$
6.85
  
  
 
3.90
  
  
$
220
  

 Expected to Vest at December 31, 2011
  
 
243
  
 
$
2.04
  
  
 
9.54
  
  
$
—  
  
   Stock-based compensation
expense related to the Company’s employee stock option plans was $0.7 million, $1.4 million and $1.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    As of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $0.1 million of total unrecognized compensation expense
related to the Company’s employee stock option plans that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.5 years. 
  F-31



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units 
  The following is a summary of nonvested restricted stock and
restricted stock units activity: (in thousands, except grant date fair value data):   












 
  
NumberofShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrantDate FairValue
 

 Nonvested balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
1,740
  
 
$
7.27
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Granted
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Vested
  
 
(54
) 
 
 
7.93
  

 Forfeited or cancelled
  
 
(446
) 
 
 
6.10
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Nonvested balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
1,240
  
 
$
7.04
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Granted
  
 
875
  
 
 
2.50
  

 Vested
  
 
(634
) 
 
 
6.67
  

 Forfeited or cancelled
  
 
(40
) 
 
 
7.61
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Nonvested balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,441
  
 
$
4.43
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Granted
  
 
1,003
  
 
 
1.78
  

 Vested
  
 
(512
) 
 
 
5.28
  

 Forfeited or cancelled
  
 
(22
) 
 
 
3.69
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Nonvested balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,910
  
 
$
2.81
  


  
  
  
 
 



   Stock-based compensation
expense related to grants of restricted stock and restricted stock units was $1.6 million, $1.6 million and $2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  As of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $1.5
million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to grants of restricted stock and restricted stock units that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. 
  The fair value of shares vested related to grants of
restricted stock and restricted stock units was $1.3 million, $2.2 million, and $0.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
 
12. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
  Univision provides network compensation
to the Company and acts as the Company’s exclusive sales representative for the sale of all national advertising aired on Univision-affiliate television stations. 
  At December 31, 2011 Univision owns approximately 10% of
the Company’s common stock on a fully-converted basis. In May 2009, the Company repurchased 0.9 million shares of Class A common stock held by Univision for $0.5 million.    The Class U common stock has limited voting rights and does not include the right to elect directors. However,
as the holder of all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class U common stock, Univision currently has the right to approve any merger, consolidation or other business combination involving the Company, any dissolution of the Company and
any assignment of the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licenses for any of the Company’s Univision-affiliated television stations. Each share of Class U common 
  F-32



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   

stock is automatically convertible into one share of the Company’s Class A common stock (subject to adjustment for stock splits, dividends or combinations) in connection with any
transfer to a third party that is not an affiliate of Univision.    In August 2008, the Company entered into a proxy agreement with Univision pursuant to which the Company granted to Univision the right to negotiate the terms of retransmission consent agreements for its
Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals for a term of six years. Among other things, the proxy agreement provides terms relating to compensation to be paid to the Company by Univision with respect to retransmission consent
agreements entered into with Multichannel Video Programming Distributors (“MVPDs”). The agreement also provides terms relating to compensation to be paid to the Company with respect to agreements that are entered into for the carriage of
its Univision- and TeleFutura-affiliated television station signals.    The following tables reflect the related-party balances with Univision and other related parties (in thousands):   




























 
  
Univision
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Trade receivables
  
$
5,608
  
  
$
5,315
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
5,608
  
  
$
5,315
  

 Other current assets
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
274
  
  
 
274
  
  
 
274
  
  
 
274
  

 Intangible assets subject to amortization, net
  
 
23,513
  
  
 
25,880
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
23,513
  
  
 
25,880
  

 Current maturities of long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,000
  

 Advances payable
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
118
  
  
 
118
  
  
 
118
  
  
 
118
  

 Accounts payable
  
$
5,691
  
  
$
3,898
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
785
  
  
$
5,691
  
  
$
4,683
  
  








































 
 
Univision
 
 
Other
 
 
Total
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Direct operating expenses (1)
 
$
8,373
  
 
$
8,803
  
 
$
6,584
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
2,054
  
 
$
1,521
  
 
$
8,373
  
 
$
10,857
  
 
$
8,105
  

 Amortization
 
 
3,617
  
 
 
3,211
  
 
 
2,320
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,617
  
 
 
3,211
  
 
 
2,320
  

 Interest expense
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
30
  
 
$
83
  
 
$
118
  
 
$
30
  
 
$
83
  
 
$
118
  
  


(1)
Consists primarily of national representation fees paid to Univision and Lotus/Entravision Reps LLC prior to its acquisition by the Company. 
  In addition, the Company also had accounts receivable from
third parties in connection with a joint sales agreement between the Company and Univision. As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 these balances totaled $2.2 million, $2.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively. 
  In May 2007, the Company entered into an affiliation
agreement with LATV Networks, LLC (“LATV”). Pursuant to the affiliation agreement, the Company will broadcast programming provided to the Company by LATV on one of the digital multicast channels of certain of the Company’s television
stations. Under the affiliation agreement, there are no fees paid for the carriage of programming, and the Company generally retains the right to sell approximately five minutes per hour of available advertising time. Walter F. Ulloa, the
Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is a director, officer and principal stockholder of LATV.   
13. LITIGATION 
  The Company is subject to various
outstanding claims and other legal proceedings that may arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, any liability of the Company that may arise out of or with respect to these matters will not materially adversely affect
the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. 
  F-33



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
14. SEGMENT DATA 
  Segment operating profit (loss) is
defined as operating profit (loss) before corporate expenses and impairment charge. There were no significant sources of revenue generated outside the United States during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. There was
approximately $10.6 million and $11.4 million of assets in Mexico at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
The accounting policies applied to determine the segment information are generally the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies (see Note 2). The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on separate financial data for each operating segment as provided below (in thousands): 
 
























 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
% Change2011
to2010
 
 
% Change2010
to2009
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
 
 

 Net Revenue
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
$
131,490
  
  
$
132,561
  
  
$
124,437
  
 
 
(1
)% 
 
 
7
% 

 Radio
  
 
62,906
  
  
 
67,915
  
  
 
64,794
  
 
 
(7
)% 
 
 
5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
194,396
  
  
 
200,476
  
  
 
189,231
  
 
 
(3
)% 
 
 
6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Direct operating expenses
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
 
53,789
  
  
 
52,882
  
  
 
52,424
  
 
 
2
% 
 
 
1
% 

 Radio
  
 
34,801
  
  
 
31,920
  
  
 
31,478
  
 
 
9
% 
 
 
1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
88,590
  
  
 
84,802
  
  
 
83,902
  
 
 
4
% 
 
 
1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
 
19,606
  
  
 
20,249
  
  
 
20,279
  
 
 
(3
)% 
 
 
(0
)% 

 Radio
  
 
16,905
  
  
 
17,797
  
  
 
17,999
  
 
 
(5
)% 
 
 
(1
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
36,511
  
  
 
38,046
  
  
 
38,278
  
 
 
(4
)% 
 
 
(1
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
 
15,189
  
  
 
15,489
  
  
 
15,680
  
 
 
(2
)% 
 
 
(1
)% 

 Radio
  
 
3,464
  
  
 
3,740
  
  
 
5,353
  
 
 
(7
)% 
 
 
(30
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
18,653
  
  
 
19,229
  
  
 
21,033
  
 
 
(3
)% 
 
 
(9
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Segment operating profit
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
 
42,906
  
  
 
43,941
  
  
 
36,054
  
 
 
(2
)% 
 
 
22
% 

 Radio
  
 
7,736
  
  
 
14,458
  
  
 
9,964
  
 
 
(46
)% 
 
 
45
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
 
50,642
  
  
 
58,399
  
  
 
46,018
  
 
 
(13
)% 
 
 
27
% 

 Corporate expenses
  
 
15,669
  
  
 
18,416
  
  
 
14,918
  
 
 
(15
)% 
 
 
23
% 

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
  
 
36,109
  
  
 
50,648
  
 
 
(100
)% 
 
 
(29
)% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Operating income (loss)
  
$
34,973
  
  
$
3,874
  
  
$
(19,548
) 
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Capital expenditures
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
$
6,494
  
  
$
6,196
  
  
$
5,839
  
 



 




 Radio
  
 
1,724
  
  
 
981
  
  
 
1,122
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
$
8,218
  
  
$
7,177
  
  
$
6,961
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Total assets
  



  



  



 



 




 Television
  
$
342,462
  
  
$
367,474
  
  
$
348,191
  
 



 




 Radio
  
 
124,859
  
  
 
123,336
  
  
 
139,736
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




 Consolidated
  
$
467,321
  
  
$
490,810
  
  
$
487,927
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 




  F-34



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
15. QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) 
  The following is a summary of the
quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands, except per share data):   
























 Year ended December 31, 2011:
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
Third Quarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 
 
Total
 

 Net revenue
  
$
44,044
  
 
$
50,265
  
 
$
50,115
  
 
$
49,972
  
 
$
194,396
  

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
 
(4,432
) 
 
 
(352
) 
 
 
(1,384
) 
 
 
(2,032
) 
 
 
(8,200
) 

 Net income (loss) per share, basic and diluted
  
$
(0.05
) 
 
$
0.00
  
 
$
(0.02
) 
 
$
(0.02
) 
 
$
(0.10
) 








 Year ended December 31, 2010:
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
Third Quarter
 
 
FourthQuarter(1)
 
 
Total
 

 Net revenue
  
$
43,073
  
 
$
53,431
  
 
$
53,325
  
 
$
50,647
  
 
$
200,476
  

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
 
(2,184
) 
 
 
6,963
  
 
 
6,408
  
 
 
(29,273
) 
 
 
(18,086
) 

 Net income (loss) per share, basic and diluted
  
$
(0.03
) 
 
$
0.08
  
 
$
0.08
  
 
$
(0.35
) 
 
$
(0.21
) 
  


(1)
During the fourth quarter of 2010 the Company recorded an impairment charge of $36.1 million relating to goodwill and FCC licenses (see Note 4)
  
16. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  The Company’s Senior Secured First
Lien Notes are guaranteed by all of the Company’s existing and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. All of the guarantees are full and unconditional and joint and several. None of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are guarantors of
the Notes.    Set forth below are consolidating
financial statements related to the Company, its material guarantor subsidiary Entravision Holdings, LLC, and its non-guarantor subsidiaries. Consolidating balance sheets are presented as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the related
consolidating statements of operations and cash flows are presented for each of the three years ended December 31, 2011. The equity method of accounting has been used by the Company to report its investment in subsidiaries. 
  F-35



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Consolidating Balance Sheet 
December 31, 2011  (In thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
 
ConsolidatedTotal
 

 ASSETS
  



 



 



  



 




 Current assets
  



 



 



  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
58,276
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
443
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
58,719
  

 Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
43,951
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
319
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
44,270
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
5,678
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
261
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5,939
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
107,905
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,023
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
108,928
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
62,046
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,180
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
65,226
  

 Intangible assets subject to amortization, net
  
 
24,598
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
24,598
  

 Intangible assets not subject to amortization
  
 
38,739
  
 
 
178,262
  
 
 
3,700
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
220,701
  

 Goodwill
  
 
35,653
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
994
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
36,647
  

 Investment in subsidiaries
  
 
170,580
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(170,580
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other assets
  
 
11,221
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,603
  
  
 
(12,603
) 
 
 
11,221
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
450,742
  
 
$
178,262
  
 
$
21,500
  
  
$
(183,183
) 
 
$
467,321
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 



 



  



 




 Current liabilities
  



 



 



  



 




 Current maturities of long-term debt
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 Advances payable, related parties
  
 
118
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
118
  

 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
  
 
49,633
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
930
  
  
 
(10,813
) 
 
 
39,750
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
49,751
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
930
  
  
 
(10,813
) 
 
 
39,868
  

 Long-term debt, less current maturities
  
 
379,662
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
379,662
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
8,327
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
8,327
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
13,563
  
 
 
28,252
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,790
) 
 
 
40,025
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
451,303
  
 
 
28,252
  
 
 
930
  
  
 
(12,603
) 
 
 
467,882
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stockholders’ equity
  



 



 



  



 




 Class A common stock
  
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5
  

 Class B common stock
  
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  

 Class C common stock
  
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  

 Member’s capital
  
 
—  
  
 
 
804,654
  
 
 
12,652
  
  
 
(817,306
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
938,453
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
938,453
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(939,022
) 
 
 
(654,644
) 
 
 
7,918
  
  
 
646,726
  
 
 
(939,022
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
(561
) 
 
 
150,010
  
 
 
20,570
  
  
 
(170,580
) 
 
 
(561
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
450,742
  
 
$
178,262
  
 
$
21,500
  
  
$
(183,183
) 
 
$
467,321
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-36



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Consolidating Balance Sheet 
December 31, 2010  (In thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
  
Eliminations
 
 
ConsolidatedTotal
 

 ASSETS
  



 



 



  



 




 Current assets
  



 



 



  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
72,140
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
250
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
72,390
  

 Restricted cash
  
 
809
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  



 
 
809
  

 Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
41,302
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
250
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
41,552
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
6,547
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
320
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
6,867
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
120,798
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
820
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
121,618
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
67,974
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,803
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
71,777
  

 Intangible assets subject to amortization, net
  
 
26,615
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
26,615
  

 Intangible assets not subject to amortization
  
 
38,739
  
 
 
177,584
  
 
 
3,700
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
220,023
  

 Goodwill
  
 
34,918
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
994
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
35,912
  

 Investment in subsidiaries
  
 
172,893
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(172,893
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other assets
  
 
14,865
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11,556
  
  
 
(11,556
) 
 
 
14,865
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
476,802
  
 
$
177,584
  
 
$
20,873
  
  
$
(184,449
) 
 
$
490,810
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 



 



  



 




 Current liabilities
  



 



 



  



 




 Current maturities of long-term debt
  
$
1,000
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
1,000
  

 Advances payable, related parties
  
 
118
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
118
  

 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
  
 
47,288
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
735
  
  
 
(9,473
) 
 
 
38,550
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
48,406
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
735
  
  
 
(9,473
) 
 
 
39,668
  

 Long-term debt, less current maturities
  
 
395,119
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
395,119
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
10,294
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
10,294
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
12,626
  
 
 
24,829
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,083
) 
 
 
35,372
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
466,445
  
 
 
24,829
  
 
 
735
  
  
 
(11,556
) 
 
 
480,453
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stockholders’ equity
  



 



 



  



 




 Class A common stock
  
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5
  

 Class B common stock
  
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  

 Class C common stock
  
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  

 Member’s capital
  
 
—  
  
 
 
803,976
  
 
 
12,652
  
  
 
(816,628
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
941,171
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
941,171
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(930,822
) 
 
 
(651,221
) 
 
 
7,486
  
  
 
643,735
  
 
 
(930,822
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
10,357
  
 
 
152,755
  
 
 
20,138
  
  
 
(172,893
) 
 
 
10,357
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
476,802
  
 
$
177,584
  
 
$
20,873
  
  
$
(184,449
) 
 
$
490,810
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-37



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Consolidating Statement of Operations 
Year Ended December 31, 2011  (In thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
ConsolidatedTotal
 

 Net revenue
  
$
193,081
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
3,906
  
 
$
(2,591
) 
 
$
194,396
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Direct operating expenses
  
 
89,584
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,597
  
 
 
(2,591
) 
 
 
88,590
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
36,305
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
36,511
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
15,669
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,669
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
17,839
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
814
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
18,653
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
159,397
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,617
  
 
 
(2,591
) 
 
 
159,423
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
33,684
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,289
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
34,973
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(37,650
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(37,650
) 

 Interest income
  
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3
  

 Other income (loss)
  
 
687
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
687
  

 Income (loss) on debt extinguishment
  
 
(423
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(423
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
(3,699
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,289
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,410
) 

 Income tax (expense) benefit
  
 
(1,510
) 
 
 
(3,423
) 
 
 
(857
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,790
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before equity in net income (loss) of subsidiaries and nonconsolidated affiliate
  
 
(5,209
) 
 
 
(3,423
) 
 
 
432
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8,200
) 

 Equity in income (loss) of subsidiaries
  
 
(2,991
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,991
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
(8,200
) 
 
 
(3,423
) 
 
 
432
  
 
 
2,991
  
 
 
(8,200
) 

 Equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(8,200
) 
 
$
(3,423
) 
 
$
432
  
 
$
2,991
  
 
$
(8,200
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-38



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Consolidating Statement of Operations 
Year Ended December 31, 2010  (In thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
ConsolidatedTotal
 

 Net revenue
  
$
199,314
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
3,604
  
 
$
(2,442
) 
 
$
200,476
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Direct operating expenses
  
 
85,895
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,349
  
 
 
(2,442
) 
 
 
84,802
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
37,489
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
557
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
38,046
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
18,416
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
18,416
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
18,417
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
812
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
19,229
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
11,992
  
 
 
15,368
  
 
 
8,749
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
36,109
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
172,209
  
 
 
15,368
  
 
 
11,467
  
 
 
(2,442
) 
 
 
196,602
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
27,105
  
 
 
(15,368
) 
 
 
(7,863
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,874
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(24,429
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(24,429
) 

 Interest income
  
 
260
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
260
  

 Income (loss) on debt extinguishment
  
 
(987
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(987
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
1,949
  
 
 
(15,368
) 
 
 
(7,863
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(21,282
) 

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
(2,617
) 
 
 
3,225
  
 
 
2,768
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,376
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before equity in net income (loss) of subsidiaries and nonconsolidated affiliate
  
 
(668
) 
 
 
(12,143
) 
 
 
(5,095
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(17,906
) 

 Equity in income (loss) of subsidiaries
  
 
(17,238
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17,238
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
(17,906
) 
 
 
(12,143
) 
 
 
(5,095
) 
 
 
17,238
  
 
 
(17,906
) 

 Equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
(180
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(180
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(18,086
) 
 
$
(12,143
) 
 
$
(5,095
) 
 
$
17,238
  
 
$
(18,086
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-39



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Consolidating Statement of Operations 
Year Ended December 31, 2009  (In thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
ConsolidatedTotal
 

 Net revenue
  
$
187,796
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
3,273
  
 
$
(1,838
) 
 
$
189,231
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Direct operating expenses
  
 
84,495
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,245
  
 
 
(1,838
) 
 
 
83,902
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
37,706
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
38,278
  

 Corporate expenses
  
 
14,918
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,918
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
20,294
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21,033
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
2,720
  
 
 
47,928
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
50,648
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
160,133
  
 
 
47,928
  
 
 
2,556
  
 
 
(1,838
) 
 
 
208,779
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
27,663
  
 
 
(47,928
) 
 
 
717
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(19,548
) 

 Interest expense
  
 
(27,948
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(27,948
) 

 Interest income
  
 
459
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
459
  

 Loss on debt extinguishment
  
 
(4,716
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,716
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
(4,542
) 
 
 
(47,928
) 
 
 
717
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(51,753
) 

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
(2,391
) 
 
 
4,692
  
 
 
(384
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,917
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before equity in net income (loss) of subsidiaries and nonconsolidated affiliate
  
 
(6,933
) 
 
 
(43,236
) 
 
 
333
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(49,836
) 

 Equity in income (loss) of subsidiaries
  
 
(42,903
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
42,903
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before equity in net loss of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
(49,836
) 
 
 
(43,236
) 
 
 
333
  
 
 
42,903
  
 
 
(49,836
) 

 Equity in net loss of nonconsolidated affiliates
  
 
(236
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(236
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(50,072
) 
 
$
(43,236
) 
 
$
333
  
 
$
42,903
  
 
$
(50,072
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-40



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows 
Year ended December 31, 2011  (In thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
ConsolidatedTotal
 

 Cash flows from operating actvities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(8,200
) 
 
$
(3,423
) 
 
$
432
  
 
$
2,991
  
 
$
(8,200
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
17,839
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
814
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
18,653
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
883
  
 
 
3,423
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,565
  

 Amortization of debt issue costs
  
 
2,207
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,207
  

 Amortization of syndication contracts
  
 
1,482
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,482
  

 Payments on syndication contracts
  
 
(1,976
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,976
) 

 Non-cash stock-based compensation
  
 
2,343
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,343
  

 Other (income) loss
  
 
(687
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(687
) 

 (Gain) loss on debt extinguishment
  
 
423
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
423
  

 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effect of acquisitions and dispositions:
  
 
—  
  
 



 



 



 
 
—  
  

 (Increase) decrease in restricted cash
  
 
809
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
809
  

 (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable
  
 
(505
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(69
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(574
) 

 (Increase) decrease in amounts due from related party
  
 
1,300
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,300
) 
 



 
 
—  
  

 (Increase) decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets
  
 
283
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
336
  

 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
(1,965
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
195
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,770
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
 
14,236
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
384
  
 
 
2,991
  
 
 
17,611
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing actvities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Purchases of property and equipment and intangibles
  
 
(8,333
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(191
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8,524
) 

 Investment in subsidiaries
  
 
2,991
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,991
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Purchase of a business
  
 
(598
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(598
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
(5,940
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(191
) 
 
 
(2,991
) 
 
 
(9,122
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing actvities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of common stock
  
 
42
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
42
  

 Payments on long-term debt
  
 
(17,071
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(17,071
) 

 Dividends paid
  
 
(5,102
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,102
) 

 Payments of deferred debt and offering costs
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(29
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(22,160
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(22,160
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(13,864
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
193
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(13,671
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents:
  



 



 



 



 




 Beginning
  
 
72,140
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
250
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
72,390
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending
  
$
58,276
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
443
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
58,719
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-41



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows 
Year ended December 31, 2010  (In thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
ConsolidatedTotal
 

 Cash flows from operating actvities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(18,086
) 
 
$
(12,143
) 
 
$
(5,095
) 
 
$
17,238
  
 
$
(18,086
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
18,417
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
812
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
19,229
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
11,992
  
 
 
15,368
  
 
 
8,749
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
36,109
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
1,994
  
 
 
(3,225
) 
 
 
(3,111
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,342
) 

 Amortization of debt issue costs
  
 
1,140
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,140
  

 Amortization of syndication contracts
  
 
1,159
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,159
  

 Payments on syndication contracts
  
 
(2,724
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,724
) 

 Equity in net income (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliate
  
 
180
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
180
  

 Non-cash stock-based compensation
  
 
2,970
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,970
  

 (Gain) loss on debt extinguishment
  
 
934
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
934
  

 Reserve for note receivable
  
 
3,018
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,018
  

 Change in fair value of interest rate swap agreements
  
 
(12,188
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(12,188
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effect of acquisitions and dispositions:
  
 
—  
  
 



 



 



 
 
—  
  

 (Increase) decrease in restricted cash
  
 
(809
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(809
) 

 (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable
  
 
2,051
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,091
  

 (Increase) decrease in amounts due from related party
  
 
184
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(184
) 
 



 
 
—  
  

 (Increase) decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets
  
 
389
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(79
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
310
  

 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
7,930
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,134
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
 
18,551
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,336
  
 
 
17,238
  
 
 
37,125
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing actvities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Investment in subsidiaries
  
 
17,238
  
 



 



 
 
(17,238
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Purchases of property and equipment and intangibles
  
 
(7,158
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,492
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(8,650
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
10,080
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,492
) 
 
 
(17,238
) 
 
 
(8,650
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing actvities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of common stock
  
 
239
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
239
  

 Payments on long-term debt
  
 
(362,949
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(362,949
) 

 Termination of swap agreements
  
 
(4,039
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,039
) 

 Proceeds from borrowings on long-term debt
  
 
394,888
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
394,888
  

 Payments of deferred debt and offering costs
  
 
(11,890
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(11,890
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
16,249
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
16,249
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
44,880
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(156
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
44,724
  

 Cash and cash equivalents:
  



 



 



 



 




 Beginning
  
 
27,260
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
406
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
27,666
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending
  
$
72,140
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
250
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
72,390
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-42



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS—(Continued)   
Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows 
Year ended December 31, 2009  (In thousands)   
























 
  
Parent
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
ConsolidatedTotal
 

 Cash flows from operating actvities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(50,072
) 
 
$
(43,236
) 
 
$
333
  
 
$
42,903
  
 
$
(50,072
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
20,294
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21,033
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
2,720
  
 
 
47,928
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
50,648
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
2,137
  
 
 
(4,692
) 
 
 
204
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,351
) 

 Amortization of debt issue costs
  
 
402
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
402
  

 Amortization of syndication contracts
  
 
1,981
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,981
  

 Payments on syndication contracts
  
 
(2,836
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,836
) 

 Equity in net loss of nonconsolidated affiliate
  
 
236
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
236
  

 Non-cash stock-based compensation
  
 
4,034
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,034
  

 (Gain) loss on debt extinguishment
  
 
945
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
945
  

 Change in fair value of interest rate swap agreements
  
 
(6,979
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,979
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effect of acquisitions and dispositions:
  



 



 



 



 




 Decrease in accounts receivable
  
 
364
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
570
  

 (Increase) decrease in amounts due from related party
  
 
960
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(960
) 
 



 
 
—  
  

 Increase in prepaid expenses and other assets
  
 
(242
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(242
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(484
) 

 Increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
1,589
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,662
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
 
(24,467
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
353
  
 
 
42,903
  
 
 
18,789
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing actvities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Proceeds from sale of property and equipment and intangibles
  
 
122
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
122
  

 Investment in subsidiaries
  
 
42,903
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(42,903
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Purchases of property and equipment and intangibles
  
 
(10,136
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(829
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,965
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
32,889
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(829
) 
 
 
(42,903
) 
 
 
(10,843
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing actvities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of common stock
  
 
255
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
255
  

 Payments on long-term debt
  
 
(42,572
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(42,572
) 

 Repurchase of Class A common stock
  
 
(1,075
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,075
) 

 Payments of deferred debt and offering costs
  
 
(1,182
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,182
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
(44,574
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(44,574
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(36,152
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(476
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(36,628
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents:
  



 



 



 



 




 Beginning
  
 
63,412
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
882
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
64,294
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending
  
$
27,260
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
406
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
27,666
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-43



Table of Contents
16. SUBSEQUENT EVENT 
  In February 2012, the Company entered
into an amendment to the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to this amendment, among other things, the total leverage ratio may not exceed 7.00 to 1 in future periods. In addition, on or after March 31, 2012, the financial covenants shall not be
applicable unless any loans are outstanding on the relevant date. 
  F-44



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION 
  SCHEDULE II—CONSOLIDATED
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  (In thousands)   
























 Description
  
Balance atBeginningof Period
 
  
Charged /(Credited)to Expense
 
 
OtherAdjustments (1)
 
  
Deductions
 
 
Balance atEnd ofPeriod
 

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  



  



 



  



 




 Year ended December 31, 2011
  
$
5,099
  
  
$
894
  
 
$
533
  
  
$
(2,600
) 
 
$
3,926
  

 Year ended December 31, 2010
  
$
5,105
  
  
$
2,924
  
 
$
1,153
  
  
$
(4,083
) 
 
$
5,099
  

 Year ended December 31, 2009
  
$
5,640
  
  
$
2,903
  
 
$
183
  
  
$
(3,621
) 
 
$
5,105
  

 Deferred tax valuation allowance
  



  



 



  



 




 Year ended December 31, 2011
  
$
142,561
  
  
$
5,803
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
148,364
  

 Year ended December 31, 2010
  
$
143,175
  
  
$
(614
) 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
142,561
  

 Year ended December 31, 2009
  
$
126,433
  
  
$
16,742
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
143,175
  
  


(1)
Other adjustments represent recoveries and increases in the allowance for doubtful accounts. 
  F-45



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
   To the Board of Directors and Members of Entravision
Holdings, LLC:    We have audited the accompanying
balance sheets of Entravision Holdings, LLC (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related statements of operations, member’s equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.    We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform
an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.    In our opinion, the financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Entravision Holdings, LLC as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.    /s/ McGladrey & Pullen, LLP    Los Angeles, CA  March 9, 2012 
  F-46



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
 
BALANCE SHEETS 
December 31, 2011 and 2010  (In thousands)   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

ASSETS
  



 




 Intangible assets not subject to amortization
  
$
178,262
  
 
$
177,584
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
178,262
  
 
$
177,584
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND MEMBER’S EQUITY
  



 




 Deferred income taxes
  
$
28,252
  
 
$
24,829
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
28,252
  
 
 
24,829
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Member’s equity
  



 




 Member’s capital
  
 
804,654
  
 
 
803,976
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(654,644
) 
 
 
(651,221
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total member’s equity
  
 
150,010
  
 
 
152,755
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and member’s equity
  
$
178,262
  
 
$
177,584
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Financial Statements

  F-47



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
(In thousands)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
 
 
15,368
  
 
 
47,928
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating loss
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(15,368
) 
 
 
(47,928
) 

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
(3,423
) 
 
 
3,225
  
 
 
4,692
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  
$
(3,423
) 
 
$
(12,143
) 
 
$
(43,236
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Financial Statements

  F-48



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
 
STATEMENTS OF MEMBER’S EQUITY 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
(In thousands)   
















 
  
Member’sCapital
 
  
AccumulatedDeficit
 
 
Total
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
  
$
803,892
  
  
$
(595,842
) 
 
$
208,050
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Contribution of FCC licenses by parent
  
 
84
  
  



 
 
84
  

 Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009
  



  
 
(43,236
) 
 
 
(43,236
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
  
$
803,976
  
  
$
(639,078
) 
 
$
164,898
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2010
  



  
 
(12,143
) 
 
 
(12,143
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
  
$
803,976
  
  
$
(651,221
) 
 
$
152,755
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Contribution of FCC licenses by parent
  
$
678
  
  



 
$
678
  

 Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2011
  



  
 
(3,423
) 
 
 
(3,423
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
  
$
804,654
  
  
$
(654,644
) 
 
$
150,010
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Financial Statements

  F-49



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
(In thousands)   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net loss
  
$
(3,423
) 
 
$
(12,143
) 
 
$
(43,236
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Impairment charge
  
 
—  
  
 
 
15,368
  
 
 
47,928
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
3,423
  
 
 
(3,225
) 
 
 
(4,692
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cash and cash equivalents:
  



 



 




 Beginning
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
  



 



 




 Cash payments for:
  



 



 




 Interest
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income taxes
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Noncash contributions from member
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
84
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Financial Statements

  F-50



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
1. NATURE OF BUSINESS 
  Nature of Business
   A wholly-owned subsidiary of Entravision
Communications Corporation (“ECC”) (see Note 6), Entravision Holdings, LLC (the “Company”) is the holder of licenses issued by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) for the operation of television and radio
stations in the United States. The Company does not engage in any operating activities or generate any revenue.   
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Use of Estimates
   The preparation of financial statements
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.    The value of the Company’s intangible assets is affected by numerous factors, including changes in
audience acceptance (i.e., ratings), priorities of advertisers, new laws and governmental regulations and policies and technological advances. The Company cannot predict if any of these factors might have a significant impact on the television and
radio advertising industries in the future, nor can it predict what impact, if any, the occurrence of these or other events might have on the Company’s intangible assets. Significant estimates and assumptions made by management are used for,
but not limited to, the fair value of indefinite life intangible assets and deferred income taxes.    Indefinite Ljfe Intangible Assets    The Company believes that its broadcast licenses are indefinite life intangible assets. An intangible asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life when there are no legal, regulatory,
contractual, competitive, economic or any other factors that may limit the period over which the asset is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to future cash flows. The evaluation of impairment for indefinite life intangible assets is
performed by a comparison of the asset’s carrying value to the asset’s fair value. When the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount of the difference. The unit of accounting used to test broadcast
licenses represents all licenses owned and operated within an individual market cluster, because such licenses are used together, are complimentary to each other and are representative of the best use of those assets. The Company’s individual
market clusters consist of cities or nearby cities. The Company tests its broadcasting licenses for impairment based on certain assumptions about these market clusters. 
  The estimated fair value of indefinite life intangible assets
is determined by an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the Company’s estimated future cash flows of each market cluster that a hypothetical buyer would expect to generate, discounted by an estimated
weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the level of inherent risk. The income approach requires the Company to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin
projections and terminal value multiples. The Company estimates the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable
publicly-traded companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to the Company. The Company also estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio
industries. The Company estimated the revenue projections and profit margin projections based on various market clusters signal coverage of the markets and industry information for an average station within a given market. The information for each
market cluster includes such things as estimated market share, estimated capital start-up costs, population, household income, retail sales and other 
  F-51



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)
  

expenditures that would influence advertising expenditures. Alternatively, some stations under evaluation have had limited relevant cash flow history due to planned or actual conversion of format
or upgrade of station signal. The assumptions the Company makes about cash flows after conversion are based on the performance of similar stations in similar markets and potential proceeds from the sale of the assets. 
  Fair Value Measurements 
  ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurements and
Disclosures”, defines and establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. In 2009, the Company adopted ASC 820 related to the accounting and disclosure of fair value measurements for
nonfinancial assets and liabilities. In accordance with ASC 820, the Company has categorized its nonfinancial assets and liabilities, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three-level fair value hierarchy as set
forth below.    Level 1 – Assets and
liabilities whose values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market that the company has the ability to access at the measurement date.    Level 2 – Assets and liabilities whose values are based on quoted prices for similar attributes in
active markets; quoted prices in markets where trading occurs infrequently; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. 
  Level 3 – Assets and liabilities whose values are
based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.   
If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument.    The following table presents the Company’s nonfinancial assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, based on the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2010 (in millions):
  








 
  
Level 3
 

 Nonfinancial Assets
  
2010
 

 Intangible assets not subject to amortization (FCC licenses)
  
$
13.7
  
   In 2010, the Company wrote
down its TV and radio FCC licenses with carrying amounts of $29.1 million to their fair values of $13.7 million and as a result, recognized impairment losses of $15.4 million, which the Company included in impairment charge on the consolidated
statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010.    Dependence on Business Partners    The Company is dependent on the continued financial and business strength of its business partners, such as the companies that provide programming to ECC. The Company could be at risk should any of these
entities fail to perform their obligations to ECC. This in turn could materially adversely affect the Company’s own business and financial condition.   
Off-balance Sheet Financings and Liabilities 
  All of the membership interests of the Company are pledged
as collateral to secure the Senior Secured First Lien Notes (the “Notes”) of ECC. The Company does not have any majority-owned subsidiaries or any interests in, or relationships with, any material variable-interest entities that are not
included in the consolidated financial statements. 
  F-52



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)
  
Income Taxes    The Company is treated as a single member limited liability company and is accounted for as a division of its
parent, ECC, for income tax purposes. Accordingly, ECC pays all taxes on the Company’s behalf and is entitled to any related tax savings. Deferred income taxes are provided on a liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for
deductible temporary differences and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets
are reduced by a valuation allowance when it is determined to be more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws
and rates on the date of enactment.    The Company
recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in
the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in
income tax expense.    Recently Issued
Accounting Pronouncements    In May 2011,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-4, “Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS”
(“ASU 2011-4”). The guidance results in a consistent definition of fair value and common requirements for measurement of and disclosure about fair value between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-4 is
effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this standard on the consolidated financial statements.   
3. INTANGIBLE ASSETS NOT SUBJECT TO AMORTIZATION 
  The composition of the Company’s
intangible assets consists entirely of intangible assets not subject to amortization (FCC licenses). The net carrying amount as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $178.3 million and $177.6 million, respectively. The Company did not have any
amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and does not anticipate future amortization expense as the intangible assets are not subject to amortization.    Indefinite life intangibles are not amortized but are tested annually for impairment, or more frequently, if
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. The annual testing date is October 1.   
2011   
The Company conducted a review of the fair value of the television and radio FCC licenses in 2011. The estimated fair value of indefinite
life intangible assets is determined by an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market cluster that a hypothetical buyer would expect to generate, discounted by an estimated
weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the level of inherent risk. The income approach requires the Company to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin
projections and terminal value multiples. The Company estimates the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable
publicly-traded companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to the Company. The Company also estimated the terminal value multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the

  F-53



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)
  

television and radio industries. The Company estimated the revenue projections and profit margin projections based on various market clusters signal coverage of the markets and industry
information for an average station within a given market. The information for each market cluster includes such things as estimated market share, estimated capital start-up costs, population, household income, retail sales and other expenditures
that would influence advertising expenditures. Alternatively, some stations under evaluation have had limited relevant cash flow history due to planned or actual conversion of format or upgrade of station signal. The assumptions the Company makes
about cash flows after conversion are based on the performance of similar stations in similar markets and potential proceeds from the sale of the assets. Based on the assumptions and estimates, the Company did not record impairment of FCC licenses.
   2010 
  The Company conducted a review of the fair value of the
television and radio FCC licenses in 2010. The estimated fair value of indefinite life intangible assets is determined by an income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market cluster
that a hypothetical buyer would expect to generate, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the level of inherent risk. The income approach requires the Company to make a
series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin projections and terminal value multiples. The Company estimates the discount rates on a blended rate of return considering both debt and equity for comparable
publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. These comparable publicly-traded companies have similar size, operating characteristics and/or financial profiles to the Company. The Company also estimated the terminal value
multiple based on comparable publicly-traded companies in the television and radio industries. The Company estimated the revenue projections and profit margin projections based on various market clusters signal coverage of the markets and industry
information for an average station within a given market. The information for each market cluster includes such things as estimated market share, estimated capital start-up costs, population, household income, retail sales and other expenditures
that would influence advertising expenditures. Alternatively, some stations under evaluation have had limited relevant cash flow history due to planned or actual conversion of format or upgrade of station signal. The assumptions the Company makes
about cash flows after conversion are based on the performance of similar stations in similar markets and potential proceeds from the sale of the assets. Based on the assumptions and estimates, the Company recognized impairment losses of $13 million
relating to television FCC licenses and $3 million relating to radio FCC licenses.    2009    The Company conducted a review of the fair value of the television and radio FCC licenses in 2009. The estimated fair value of indefinite life intangible assets is determined by an income approach. The
income approach estimates fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each market cluster, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital that reflects current market conditions, which reflect the level of inherent risk. The
income approach also requires the Company to make a series of assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue projections, profit margin projections and terminal value multiples. Based on the assumptions and estimates described above, the Company
recognized impairment losses of $48 million relating to radio FCC licenses.   
4. LONG-TERM DEBT
  The Company does not have any long term
debt as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. However, the Company is a guarantor of the Notes of its parent, ECC. Effective July 27, 2010, all of the membership interests of the Company are pledged as collateral to secure ECC’s Notes. As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the balance due on ECC’s Notes was $383.8 million and $400 million, respectively. 
  F-54



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)
  
ECC’s Notes    On July 27, 2010, ECC completed the offering and sale of $400 million aggregate principal amount of its
8.75% Senior Secured First Lien Notes. The Notes were issued at a discount of 98.722% of their principal amount and mature on August 1, 2017. Interest on the Notes accrues at a rate of 8.75% per annum from the date of original issuance and
is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2011. ECC received net proceeds of approximately $388 million from the sale of the Notes (net of bond discount of $5 million and
fees of $7 million), which were used to pay all indebtedness outstanding under the previous syndicated bank credit facility, terminate the related interest rate swap agreements, pay fees and expenses related to the offering of the Notes and for
general corporate purposes.    During the fourth
quarter of 2011, ECC purchased Notes on the open market with a principal amount of $16.2 million. ECC recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $0.4 million primarily due to the write off of unamortized finance costs and unamortized bond discount.
   The Notes are guaranteed on a senior secured
basis by all of the existing and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of ECC (the “Note Guarantors”). The Notes and the guarantees rank equal in right of payment to all of ECC’s and the guarantors’ existing and future senior
indebtedness and senior in right of payment to all of ECC’s and the Note Guarantors’ existing and future subordinated indebtedness. In addition, the Notes and the guarantees are effectively junior: (i) to ECC’s and the Note
Guarantors’ indebtedness secured by assets that are not collateral; (ii) pursuant to an Intercreditor Agreement entered into at the same time that ECC entered into its 2010 Credit Facility; and (iii) to all of the liabilities of any
of ECC’s existing and future subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Notes, to the extent of the assets of those subsidiaries. The Notes are secured by substantially all of the assets, as well as the pledge of the stock of substantially all of
the subsidiaries, including the Company.    At
ECC’s option, ECC may redeem:   


 
•
 
 prior to August 1, 2013, on one or more occasions, up to 10% of the original principal amount of the Notes during each 12-month period beginning
on August 1, 2010, at a redemption price equal to 103% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest;   


 
•
 
 prior to August 1, 2013, on one or more occasions, up to 35% of the original principal amount of the Notes with the net proceeds from certain
equity offerings, at a redemption price of 108.750% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest; provided that: (i) at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of all Notes issued under the Indenture remains
outstanding immediately after such redemption; and (ii) such redemption occurs within 60 days of the date of closing of any such equity offering; 
 


 
•
 
 prior to August 1, 2013, some or all of the Notes may be redeemed at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus a
“make-whole” premium plus accrued and unpaid interest; and   


 
•
 
 on or after August 1, 2013, some or all of the Notes may be redeemed at a redemption price of: (i) 106.563% of the principal amount of the
Notes if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1, 2013; (ii) 104.375% of the principal amount of the Notes if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1, 2014; (iii) 102.188% of the
principal amount of the Notes if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1, 2015; and (iv) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes if redeemed on or after August 1, 2016, in each case plus accrued and unpaid
interest.    In addition, upon a
change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the issuance of the Notes (the “Indenture”), ECC must make an offer to repurchase all Notes then outstanding, at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of
the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. 
  F-55



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)
  
Upon an event of default, as defined in the Indenture, the Notes will become due and
payable: (i) immediately without further notice if such event of default arises from events of bankruptcy or insolvency of ECC, any Note Guarantor or any restricted subsidiary; or (ii) upon a declaration of acceleration of the Notes in
writing to ECC by the Trustee or holders representing 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, if an event of default occurs and is continuing. The Indenture contains additional provisions that are customary for an
agreement of this type, including indemnification by ECC and the Note Guarantors.    ECC’s Syndicated Bank Credit Facility   
In July 2010, ECC repaid all amounts outstanding under the previous syndicated bank credit facility and terminated the amended syndicated
bank credit facility agreement. All references to and discussions regarding the syndicated bank credit facility and the amended syndicated bank credit facility agreement in this report should be considered in light of this fact. 
  In September 2005, ECC entered into the
previous $650 million senior secured syndicated bank credit facility, consisting of a 7  1/2 year $500 million term loan and a 6  1/2 year $150 million new facility. The term loan under the syndicated bank credit facility had been drawn in full, the proceeds of which were used (i) to refinance $250 million outstanding under the
former syndicated bank credit facility, (ii) to complete a tender offer for the previously outstanding $225 million senior subordinated notes, and (iii) for general corporate purposes. ECC’s ability to make additional borrowings under
the syndicated bank credit facility was subject to compliance with certain financial covenants, including financial ratios, and other conditions set forth in the syndicated bank credit facility. 
  On March 16, 2009, ECC entered into an amendment to the
previous syndicated bank credit facility agreement. Pursuant to this amendment, among other things:   


 
•
 
 The interest that ECC paid under the credit facility increased. Both the revolver and term loan borrowings under the amendment bore interest at a
variable interest rate based on either LIBOR or a base rate, in either case plus an applicable margin that varies depending upon the leverage ratio. Borrowings under both the revolver and term loan bore interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 5.25% when
the leverage ratio was greater than or equal to 5.0.   


 
•
 
 The total amount of the revolver facility was reduced from $150 million to $50 million. The new facility bore interest at LIBOR plus a margin ranging
from 3.25% to 5.25% based on leverage covenants. In addition, ECC paid a quarterly unused commitment fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50% per annum, depending on the level of facility used. 
 


 
•
 
 There were more stringent financial covenants relating to maximum allowed leverage ratio, maximum capital expenditures and fixed charge coverage ratio.
Beginning March 16, 2009 through December 31, 2009, the maximum allowed leverage ratio, or the ratio of consolidated total debt to trailing-twelve-month consolidated adjusted EBITDA, was 6.75. The maximum allowed leverage ratio decreased
to 6.50 in the first quarter of 2010.   


 
•
 
 There was a mandatory prepayment clause for 100% of the proceeds of certain asset dispositions, regardless of the leverage ratio. In addition, if ECC
had excess cash flow, as defined in the syndicated bank credit facility, 75% of such excess cash flow must be used to reduce the outstanding loan balance on a quarterly basis. 
 


 
•
 
 Beginning March 31, 2009, the senior leverage ratio and net leverage ratio were eliminated. 
 


 
•
 
 ECC was restricted from making future repurchases of shares of common stock, except under a limited circumstance, which ECC utilized in May 2009.

  F-56



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)
  
The amended syndicated bank credit facility also required ECC to maintain FCC licenses
for broadcast properties and continued restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, the payment of dividends, the marking of acquisitions and the sale of assets. 
  The amendment also contained additional covenants,
representations and provisions that are usual and customary for credit facilities of this type. All other provisions of the credit facility agreement, as amended, remained in full force and effect unless expressly amended or modified by the
amendment.    At the time of entering into this
amendment, ECC made a prepayment of $40 million to reduce the outstanding amount of the term loans and paid the lenders an amendment fee.   
ECC recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $1.0 million for fees and unamortized finance costs during the year ended December 31,
2010.    ECC recorded a loss on debt extinguishment
of $4.7 million for fees, unamortized finance costs and interest rate swap agreement termination costs associated with the amendment to the syndicated bank credit facility during the year ended December 31, 2009. 
 
5. INCOME TAXES 
  The provision (benefit) for income taxes
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 is as follows (in millions):   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current
  



  



 




 Federal
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  

 State
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred
  



  



 




 Federal
  
 
2.9
  
  
 
(2.8
) 
 
 
(4.0
) 

 State
  
 
0.5
  
  
 
(0.4
) 
 
 
(0.7
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
3.4
  
  
 
(3.2
) 
 
 
(4.7
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total provision (benefit) for taxes
  
$
3.4
  
  
$
(3.2
) 
 
$
(4.7
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The income tax provision
(benefit) differs from the amount of income tax determined by applying the U.S. federal income tax rate of 34% to pre-tax income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 due to the following (in millions): 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Computed “expected” tax provision (benefit)
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(5.2
) 
 
$
(17.2
) 

 Change in income tax resulting from:
  



  



 




 State taxes, net of federal benefit
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(0.5
) 
 
 
(1.8
) 

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
3.2
  
  
 
2.8
  
 
 
13.9
  

 Other
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
0.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
3.4
  
  
$
(3.2
) 
 
$
(4.7
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-57



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)
  
The components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 and
2010 consist of the following (in millions):   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Net operating loss carryforward
  
 
77.9
  
 
 
64.6
  

 Long-lived Intangible assets
  
 
28.6
  
 
 
38.7
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
106.5
  
 
 
103.3
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(106.5
) 
 
 
(103.3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Long-lived Intangible assets
  
$
(28.3
) 
 
$
(24.8
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   As of December 31, 2011,
the Company has federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $207.6 million available to offset future taxable income. The net operating loss carryforwards will expire during the years 2021 through 2031. 
  For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the
Company had a valuation allowance of $106.5 million and $103.3 million, respectively, as the Company believes that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. 
  As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s utilization
of its available net operating loss carryforwards against future taxable income is not restricted pursuant to the “change in ownership” rules in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. However in subsequent periods, the utilization
of its available net operating loss carryforwards against future taxable income may be restricted pursuant to the “change in ownership” rules in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. These rules in general provide that an
ownership change occurs when the percentage shareholdings of 5% direct or indirect shareholders of a loss corporation have in aggregate increased by more than 50 percentage points during the immediately preceding three years. 
 
6. MEMBER’S EQUITY 
  Under the Third Amended and Restated
Operating Agreement of the Company entered into as of August 3, 2000, ECC is the sole member of the Company and owns 100% of the Company’s issued and outstanding membership interests. 
 
7. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
  The Company holds the broadcasting
licenses issued by the FCC for the operation of television and radio stations by ECC. ECC is the sole member of the Company and owns 100% of the Company’s issued and outstanding membership interests. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, all
of the membership interests of the Company were pledged as collateral to secure the Notes of ECC.    In May 2011, ECC acquired a radio FCC license in Palm Springs, CA for $0.7 million in an auction held by the FCC. ECC contributed the license to the Company. 
  In April 2009, ECC acquired the assets of television station
KREN-TV, serving the Reno, Nevada market, for approximately $4.3 million. ECC contributed the related FCC licenses acquired in the transaction to the Company. The transferred licenses were valued at $0.1 million. 
  F-58



Table of Contents
ENTRAVISION HOLDINGS, LLC 
  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)
  
8. LITIGATION 
  The Company is subject to various
outstanding claims and other legal proceedings that may arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, any liability of the Company that may arise out of or with respect to these matters will not materially adversely affect
the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. 
  F-59




