
10-K
1
v302731_10k.htm
FORM 10-K







 

  
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 

 

FORM 10-K
 
x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.
OR
 
¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition period from ________
to ________.
 
Commission File Number 000-30929
 

 

KERYX BIOPHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 



Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)

13-4087132
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)

 


750 Lexington Avenue
New York, New York
(Address of principal executive offices)

 
10022
(Zip Code)

 
Registrant’s telephone
number, including area code: (212) 531-5965
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:





Common Stock, Par Value $0.001 Per Share
(Title of Class)

NASDAQ Capital Market
(Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered)

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(g) of the Act:
None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes ¨
No x
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes ¨
No x
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨
 
Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x
No ¨
 
Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  £
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filed, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of
“large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). (Check one):
 


Large accelerated filer ¨
 
Accelerated filer x

Non-accelerated filer ¨
 
Smaller reporting company ¨

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes ¨
No x
 
The aggregate market value of voting common
stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant (assuming, for purposes of this calculation, without conceding, that all executive
officers and directors are “affiliates”) was $324,028,092 as of June 30, 2011, based on the closing sale price of such
stock as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market.
 
There were 71,022,951 shares of the registrant’s
common stock outstanding as of February 23, 2012.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the 2012
Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 


 
 

 

KERYX BIOPHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 


 
 
Page

 
 
 

SPECIAL CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
1

 
 
 

PART I

ITEM 1
Business
2

ITEM 1A
Risk Factors
21

ITEM 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
33

ITEM 2
Properties
33

ITEM 3
Legal Proceedings
33

ITEM 4
Mine Safety Disclosures
34

 
 
 

PART II

 

ITEM 5
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
34

ITEM 6
Selected Financial Data
36

ITEM 7
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
37

ITEM 7A
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk
45

ITEM 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
45

ITEM 9
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
45

ITEM 9A
Controls and Procedures
45

ITEM 9B
Other Information
46

 
 
 

PART III

 

ITEM 10
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
46

ITEM 11
Executive Compensation
46

ITEM 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
47

ITEM 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
47

ITEM 14
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
47

 
 
 

PART IV

 

ITEM 15
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
48

 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trademarks and trade names
of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., including our name and logo. All other trademarks, service marks, or trade names referenced
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners.
 


 
 


 
SPECIAL CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
Certain matters discussed in this report, including
matters discussed under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,”
may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other
factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance
or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The words "anticipate," "believe,"
"estimate," "may," "expect" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements due to a
variety of factors, including, without limitation, those discussed under the captions “Risk Factors,” “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report, as well as other
factors which may be identified from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC,
or in the documents where such forward-looking statements appear. All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to
us are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not
limited to, statements about our:
  

·expectations for increases or decreases in expenses;
  

·expectations for the pre-clinical and clinical development, manufacturing, regulatory approval, and commercialization of KRX-0401
(perifosine) and ZerenexTM (ferric citrate) or any other products we may acquire or in-license;
  

·expectations for incurring capital expenditures to expand our research and development and manufacturing capabilities;
  

·expectations for generating revenue or becoming profitable on a sustained basis;
  

·expectations or ability to enter into marketing and other partnership agreements;
  

·expectations or ability to enter into product acquisition and in-licensing transactions;
  

·expectations or ability to build our own commercial infrastructure to manufacture, market and sell our drug candidates;
  

·estimates of the sufficiency of our existing cash and cash equivalents and investments to finance our operating requirements,
including expectations regarding the value and liquidity of our investments;
  

·expected losses; and
  

·expectations for future capital requirements.
 
The forward-looking statements contained in
this report reflect our views and assumptions only as of the date this report is signed. Except as required by law, we assume no
responsibility for updating any forward-looking statements.
 
We qualify all of our forward-looking statements
by these cautionary statements. In addition, with respect to all of our forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of
the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 


1
 



 
PART I
 
Unless the context requires otherwise, references
in this report to “Keryx,” “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. and our subsidiaries.
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 
 
OVERVIEW 
 
We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on
the acquisition, development and commercialization of medically important pharmaceutical products for the treatment of cancer and
renal disease. We are developing KRX-0401 (perifosine), a novel, potentially first-in-class, oral anti-cancer agent that inhibits
Akt activation in the phosphoinositide 3-kinase, or PI3K, pathway, and also affects a number of other key signal transduction pathways,
including the JNK pathway, all of which are pathways associated with programmed cell death, growth, differentiation and survival.
KRX-0401 is currently in Phase 3 clinical development for both refractory advanced colorectal cancer and relapsed / refractory
multiple myeloma, and in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical development for several other tumor types. Each of the KRX-0401 Phase 3 programs
is being conducted under Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, agreements with the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and with
Fast-Track Designation.
 
We are also developing Zerenex™ (ferric
citrate), an oral, ferric iron-based compound that has the capacity to bind to phosphate in the gastrointestinal tract and form
non-absorbable complexes. Zerenex is currently in Phase 3 clinical development in the United States, under an SPA, as a treatment
for hyperphosphatemia (elevated phosphate levels) in patients with end-stage renal disease, or ESRD, on dialysis. In April 2011,
our Japanese partner for Zerenex (ferric citrate), Japan Tobacco Inc., or JT, and Torii Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Torii, commenced
its Phase 3 clinical program for ferric citrate in Japan.
 
We also engage in business development activities
that include seeking strategic relationships for our product candidates, as well as evaluating compounds and companies for in-licensing
or acquisition. To date, we have not received approval for the sale of any of our drug candidates in any market and, therefore,
have not generated any product sales from our drug candidates. We have generated, and expect to continue to generate, revenue from
the licensing of rights to Zerenex in Japan to JT and Torii.
 
The table below summarizes the status of our
product pipeline.
 


Product candidate
Target indication
Development status

KRX-0401 (perifosine)

Colorectal cancer
Multiple myeloma
Several other forms of cancer

Phase 3 trial ongoing, under SPA
Phase 3 trial ongoing, under SPA
Phase 1 & 2 trials ongoing

Zerenex™ (ferric citrate)
Hyperphosphatemia in patients with end-stage renal disease

U.S. Phase 3 program ongoing, under SPA
Japan Phase 3 program ongoing
        by sublicensee (JT and Torii)

 
OUR STRATEGY
 
Our mission is to create long-term stockholder
value by acquiring, developing and commercializing medically important, pharmaceutical products for the treatment of life-threatening
diseases, focusing on cancer and renal disease. Our strategy to achieve this mission is to:
 

·utilize our clinical development capabilities to manage and drive our drug candidates through the clinical development process
to approval;
 

·identify and explore licensing and partnership opportunities for our current drug candidates;
 

·seek to acquire medically important drug candidates in early clinical development; and
 

·commercialize our drug candidates, either alone or in partnership, which we believe can provide maximum stockholder value.
  

2
 


  
CORPORATE INFORMATION
 
We were incorporated in Delaware in October
1998. We commenced operations in November 1999, following our acquisition of substantially all of the assets and certain of the
liabilities of Partec Ltd., our predecessor company that began its operations in January 1997. Our executive offices are located
at 750 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022. Our telephone number is 212-531-5965, and our e-mail address is info@keryx.com.
 
We maintain a website with the address www.keryx.com.
We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file
such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. We are not including the information on our website as a part of, nor
incorporating it by reference into, this report. You may read and copy any materials we file at the SEC’s Public Reference
Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 on official business days during the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Please
call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the Public Reference Room. Additionally, the SEC maintains a website that contains
annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information that issuers (including us) file electronically
with the SEC. The SEC’s website address is http://www.sec.gov.
 
PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
 
KRX-0401 (perifosine)
 
Overview
 
KRX-0401 (perifosine) is a novel, potentially
first-in-class, oral anti-cancer agent that inhibits Akt activation in the PI3K pathway, and also affects a number of other key
signal transduction pathways, including the JNK pathway, all of which are pathways associated with programmed cell death, cell
growth, cell differentiation and cell survival. The effects of KRX-0401 on Akt are of particular interest because of the importance
of this pathway in the development of most cancers, with evidence that it is often activated in tumors that are resistant to other
forms of anticancer therapy, and the difficulty encountered thus far in the discovery of drugs that will inhibit this pathway without
causing excessive toxicity. High levels of activated Akt, or pAkt, are seen frequently in many types of cancer and have been correlated
with poor prognosis.
 
To date, over 2,000 patients have been treated
with KRX-0401 in trials conducted in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Israel. Its safety profile is distinctly different from that
of most cytotoxic agents. In clinical trials, KRX-0401 does not appear to cause flu-like symptoms, thrombocytopenia (decrease in
platelets that may result in bleeding) or alopecia (hair loss). The main side effects of KRX-0401, as seen in clinical trials,
are nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and fatigue, but these are generally well-managed particularly at lower daily doses (50 mg or 100
mg) that have induced tumor regression. Responses have been seen with both daily and weekly regimens. At the doses studied, the
daily regimens were better tolerated.
 
Pre-Clinical and Clinical Data Overview
 
In vitro, KRX-0401 inhibits the growth of a
variety of human tumor cell lines and has demonstrated activity in vivo against a number of murine tumor models and human xenografts.
Investigators at the U.S. National Cancer Institute, or NCI, were among the first to study the effects of KRX-0401 on Akt using
a prostate cell line, PC-3, that is known to have constitutively activated Akt. Their results demonstrated that KRX-0401 blocked
phosphorylation of Akt but did not decrease the total amount of Akt present in the cell. Additional in-vitro and in-vivo studies
were conducted in several model systems, including colorectal, multiple myeloma, prostate, neuroblastoma and gastric cell lines.
In these studies, KRX-0401 appeared to be additive or synergistic with cytotoxics, antimetabolites and targeted agents such as
cisplatin, 5- fluorouracil (5FU), doxorubicin, proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (Velcade®), tyrosine kinase inhibitor
sorafenib (Nexavar®), mTOR inhibitor temsirolimus (Torisel®), EGFR antibody cetuximab (Erbitux®)
and cyclophosphamide.
 
Seven Phase 1 single agent studies of KRX-0401
have been conducted; three in Europe by AEterna Zentaris Inc., the licensor of KRX-0401, and four in the U.S. by the NCI, a department
of the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, as part of a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, or CRADA, and by us.
These trials demonstrated that KRX-0401 can be safely given to humans with a manageable toxicity profile. The dose limiting toxicity
in the Phase 1 studies was gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Additionally, one Phase 1 study in the U.S. is being
conducted to evaluate the safety of KRX-0401 in pediatric patients, and another is being conducted to evaluate the effect of KRX-0401
on electrocardiogram parameters, including QTc intervals, as well as the effect of food on KRX-0401 bioavailability.

 

3
 


  
Fourteen Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies of KRX-0401
in combination with other drugs have been conducted by Keryx. Agents that have been included in these combinations include capecitabine
(Xeloda®), gemcitabine, paclitaxel,
docetaxel, prednisone, doxorubicin, pemetrexed, irinotecan, Doxil®
(doxorubicin HCl liposome injection), trastuzumab, various endocrine therapies, imatinib, bortezomib (Velcade®),
lenalidomide, sorafenib, and sunitinib. KRX-0401 has generally been well tolerated when used as a low daily dose (50 mg or 100
mg) in combination with these approved agents.
 
The NCI has conducted a number of Phase 2 clinical
trials studying KRX-0401 as a single agent, including studies in prostate, breast, head and neck and pancreatic cancers, as well
as melanoma and sarcomas. In total, nine NCI clinical trials have been conducted across these six tumor types.
 
KRX-0401 has also been evaluated in eleven Phase
2 clinical studies conducted by Keryx evaluating the single agent activity in various tumor types where patients have progressed
on standard treatments. Clinical trials where responses have been reported have been conducted in patients with renal cell carcinoma,
advanced brain tumors, soft-tissue sarcomas, hepatocellular carcinoma, as well as in hematologic malignancies including multiple
myeloma and Waldenstrom’s macroglobulinemia. As illustrated in the previous NCI trials, the lower daily doses (50 mg or 100
mg) have been better tolerated than the intermittent higher doses.
 
Colorectal Cancer Clinical Data
 
In June 2010, we announced updated results from
a randomized, multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 study of KRX-0401 (perifosine) in combination with capecitabine
(Xeloda®) versus capecitabine plus placebo in patients with second-line, third-line or greater metastatic colorectal
cancer. The data was presented at the 46th Annual Meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, or ASCO, in Chicago. In
October 2011, the results of the Phase 2 study were published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology, or JCO, (J Clin Oncol. 2011
Nov 20;29(33):4394-400. Epub 2011 Oct 3). The study was designed as part of a larger Phase 2 clinical protocol that included several
prospectively defined perifosine + chemotherapy regimens.
 
In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
study conducted at multiple centers across the U.S., heavily pre-treated patients with second-line, third-line or greater metastatic
colorectal cancer were randomized to receive capecitabine (a chemotherapy used in advanced metastatic colorectal cancer which is
marketed by Roche as Xeloda®) at a starting dose of 825 mg/m2, twice daily (total daily dose of 1650
mg/m2) on days 1 – 14 every 21 days plus either perifosine at 50 mg daily or placebo. The study enrolled a total
of 38 patients, 34 of whom were third-line or greater. Median age of patients was 65 (32-83); 61% of the patients were male.
 
The results published in the JCO reported on
the safety and efficacy for the Intent-to-Treat population, as per the protocol statistical criteria, defined as all patients who
received at least one dose of study drug, which included all 38 patients enrolled. Overall Response Rate, or ORR, was measured
in any patient who completed one cycle of therapy, and included 35 evaluable patients (20 patients on the perifosine + capecitabine
arm and 15 patients on the placebo + capecitabine arm). Three patients on the placebo + capecitabine arm were not evaluable for
response due to coming off treatment within the first cycle of therapy. All patients in the perifosine + capecitabine arm were
evaluable for response.
 
The patients in the study were heavily pre-treated,
with the arms well-balanced in terms of prior treatment regimens. The prior treatment regimens for all 38 patients are shown in
the table below. Notably, all of the patients (with the exception of one CAP arm patient) had been treated with FOLFIRI and/or
FOLFOX, almost 80% treated with Avastin®, and approximately half treated with an EGFR antibody.
 



Prior RX
 
P-CAP (n=20)
 
CAP  (n=18)
 
All Patients (n=38)

FOLFIRI
 
18 (90%)
 
16 (89%)
 
34 (89%)

FOLFOX
 
15 (75%)
 
13 (72%)
 
28 (74%)

FOLFIRI & FOLFOX
 
13 (65%)
 
12 (67%)
 
25 (66%)

Avastin®
 
15 (75%)
 
15 (83%)
 
30 (79%)

EGFR Antibody (1)
 
9 (45%)
 
10 (56%)
 
19 (50%)

5-FU Refractory Status
 
14 (70%)
 
13 (72%)
 
27 (71%)

Third Line or >
 
18 (90%)
 
16 (89%)
 
34 (89%)



(1) Prior treatment with Erbitux® and/or Vectibix®
 


4
 


 
The primary endpoint of this study was to measure
Time to Progression, or TTP. ORR, defined as Complete Response, or CR, + Partial Response, or PR, by Response Evaluation Criteria
in Solid Tumors, or RECIST, and Overall Survival, or OS, were measured as secondary endpoints. The efficacy results illustrated
by ORR, TTP and OS, broken down by all evaluable patients and 5-FU refractory patients, are as follows:
 
OVERALL RESPONSE RATE:
 



ALL EVALUABLE
    PATIENTS (n=35)
 
5-FU REFRACTORY
    PATIENTS (n=25)

Group
 
n
 
CR
n (%)
 
PR
n (%)
 
Duration
of
Response
 
>
                          SD
                          (min 12 wks)
n (%)
P =
        0.036
 
Group
 
n
 
PR  n
    (%)
 
Duration
of
Response
 
>
                          SD
                          (min 12 wks)
n (%)
P =
        0.066

P-CAP
 
20
 
1 (5%)
 
3 (15%)
 
CR: 36 m
 
11 (55%)
 
P-CAP
 
14
 
1 (7%)
 
19 m
 
8 (57%)

 
 
 
 
PR: 21, 19, 11 m
 
 
 
 
 
 

CAP
 
15
 
0
 
1 (7%)
 
PR: 7 m
 
5 (33%)
 
CAP
 
11
 
0
 
-
 
3 (27%)


 
TIME TO PROGRESSION AND OVERALL SURVIVAL
 



ALL EVALUABLE
    PATIENTS (n=38)
 
5-FU REFRACTORY
    PATIENTS (n=27)

Group
 
n
 
Median
                           TTP
Weeks
P <
        0.001
HR:
        0.254
 
Median
                           OS*
Months
P =
        0.0052
HR:
        0.370
 
Group
 
n
 
Median
                           TTP
Weeks
P <
        0.001
HR:
        0.170
 
Median
                           OS*
Months
P =
        0.0061
HR:
        0.295

P-CAP
 
20
 
27.5 [95% CI (12.1-48.1)]
 
17.7  [95% CI (8.5-24.6)]
 
P-CAP
 
14
 
17.6 [95% CI (12.0-36.0)]
 
15.1 [95% CI (7.2-22.3)]

CAP
 
18
 
10.1 [95% CI (6.6-13.0)]
 
7.6  [95% CI (5.0-16.3)]
 
CAP
 
13
 
9.0 [95% CI (6.6-11.0)]
 
6.5 [95% CI (4.8-10.9)]



*Survival is calculated from date
of randomization until the date of death from any cause, whether or not additional therapies were received after removal from
treatment.
 
All 38 patients in the study were evaluable
for safety. The P-CAP combination was well-tolerated with Grade 3 and 4 adverse events of > 10% incidence for the P-CAP arm
versus CAP arm as follows: hand-foot syndrome (30% vs. 0%), anemia (15% vs. 0%), fatigue (0% vs. 11%), bowel obstruction (0% vs.
11%) and abdominal pain (5% vs. 11%). Of note, incidence of Grade 1 and 2 hand-foot syndrome was similar in both the P-CAP and
CAP arms (25% vs. 22%, respectively). Hand-foot syndrome is a reported adverse event with capecitabine monotherapy. We believe
that patients who remained on treatment longer in the Phase 2 study had a greater chance to develop hand-foot syndrome as illustrated
by a median time to onset of Grade 3 and 4 hand-foot syndrome in the P-CAP arm of 19 weeks.
 
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Phase 3 “X-PECT” Registration
Clinical Trial
 
In April 2010, we initiated a Phase 3 registration
clinical trial for KRX-0401 (perifosine) for the treatment of patients with refractory advanced colorectal cancer. In July 2011,
we announced the completion of patient enrollment. This Phase 3 trial is being conducted pursuant to an SPA with the FDA and with
Fast-Track Designation. The Phase 3 trial, entitled the “X-PECT” (Xeloda® + Perifosine Evaluation in Colorectal
cancer Treatment) trial, is a randomized (1:1), double-blind trial comparing the efficacy and safety of perifosine + capecitabine
vs. placebo + capecitabine in approximately 465 patients with refractory advanced colorectal cancer. Patients must have failed
available therapy including 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), oxaliplatin (Eloxatin®), irinotecan (Camptosar®), bevacizumab (Avastin®)
and, if KRAS wild-type, failed therapy with prior cetuximab (Erbitux®) and/or panitumumab (Vectibix®). For oxaliplatin-based
therapy, failure of therapy will also include patients who discontinued due to toxicity. The primary endpoint is overall survival,
with secondary endpoints including ORR, progression-free survival and safety. The median overall survival for the X-PECT study's
targeted patient population, that has failed prior therapies as described above, is expected to be approximately 5 months. The
X-PECT study is powered at 90% to detect a statistically significant difference in overall survival, with an assumed median overall
survival for the control arm of 5-6 months and 7-8 months for the perifosine arm. Approximately 360 events of death will trigger
the un-blinding of the study. On July 27, 2011, we announced the completion of patient enrollment and on August 31, 2011, we announced
that the independent Data Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, for the Phase 3 “X-PECT” trial completed a pre-specified
interim analysis for safety and futility. The independent DSMB recommended that the Phase 3 study continue to completion, as planned.
 


5
 


 
Dr. Johanna Bendell, Director of GI Oncology
Research for the Sarah Cannon Research Institute, Nashville, Tennessee, is leading the Phase 3 investigational team that includes
Dr. Cathy Eng, Associate Medical Director for the Colorectal Center at MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas. Approximately
65 U.S. sites are participating in the study.
 
KRX-0401 has been granted Fast Track designation
for the treatment of refractory advanced colorectal cancer.
 
Colorectal Cancer Market Opportunity
 
According to the American Cancer Society, colorectal
cancer is the third most common form of cancer diagnosed in the U.S. It is estimated that approximately 143,000 people will be
diagnosed with some form of colorectal cancer with approximately 51,000 patients dying from colorectal cancer in 2012. Surgery
is often the main treatment for early stage colorectal cancer. When colorectal cancer metastasizes (spreads to other parts of the
body such as the liver) chemotherapy is commonly used. Treatment of patients with recurrent or advanced colorectal cancer depends
on the location of the disease. Chemotherapy regimens (i.e. FOLFOX or FOLFIRI either with or without bevacizumab) have been shown
to increase survival rates in patients with metastatic/advanced colorectal cancer. Currently, there are seven approved drugs for
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer: 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), capecitabine (Xeloda®), irinotecan (Camptosar®),
oxaliplatin (Eloxatin®), bevacizumab (Avastin®), cetuximab (Erbitux®), and panitumumab
(Vectibix®). Depending on the stage of the cancer, two or more of these types of treatment may be combined at the
same time or used after one another. For example, FOLFOX combines 5-FU, leucovorin and oxaliplatin, whereas FOLFIRI combines 5-FU,
leucovorin and irinotecan. Bevacizumab, a VEGF monoclonal antibody, is commonly administered with chemotherapy. Typically, patients
who fail 5-FU, oxaliplatin, irinotecan, and bevacizumab-containing therapies, and who have wild-type KRAS status receive EGFR monoclonal
antibody therapy with either cetuximab or panitumumab. Once patients progress on these agents, there are no further standard treatment
options.
 
Multiple Myeloma Clinical Data
 
In December 2011, at the American Society of
Hematology, or ASH, annual meeting, in a presentation by Dr. Paul Richardson, Clinical Director of the Multiple Myeloma Center
at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, we announced results (updated from a presentation at ASH in December 2009) on the clinical
activity of KRX-0401 (perifosine) in combination with bortezomib (with or without dexamethasone) in patients with relapsed / refractory
multiple myeloma. This trial was designed as a Phase 1 and Phase 2 study. In October 2011, the results of the study were published
in the JCO (J Clin Oncol. 2011 Nov 10;29(32):4243-9. Epub 2011 Oct 11).
 
The Phase 1 portion of the study enrolled 18
patients and the Phase 2 portion enrolled 66 patients (for a total of 84 patients), all with advanced multiple myeloma.
 
The patients enrolled were heavily pre-treated
with a median of 5 prior lines of therapy (range 1 - 13), including;
 

·100% of patients had been treated with bortezomib (55% of the patients were previously treated with at least two bortezomib-based
therapies (range 1 - 4) and 81% were previously treated with bortezomib plus dexamethasone);

·98% of patients were previously treated with dexamethasone;

·94% of patients were previously treated with lenalidomide (Revlimid®)
and/or thalidomide (Thalomid®); and

·58% of patients had prior stem cell transplant.
 
ORR, defined as the percentage of patients achieving
a CR, PR or minor response, or MR, was the primary endpoint, with TTP, Progression-Free Survival, or PFS, OS and safety as secondary
endpoints.
 


6
 




   
Seventy-three patients were evaluable for efficacy. Evaluable
patients were defined as those patients who had received at least two cycles of therapy on the combination of perifosine with
bortezomib. Of the 73 evaluable patients, 53 patients (73%) were previously refractory to bortezomib (defined as progression
on or within 60 days of treatment with a bortezomib-based regimen), including 44 patients who were refractory to the combination
of bortezomib + dexamethasone. Twenty evaluable patients (27%) were relapsed to a prior bortezomib-based regimen. Best
response for all 73 evaluable patients was as follows:
 


Evaluable Patients 
CR /nCR*  
PR  
MR  
ORR  
SD** 

All Evaluable Patients (n=73) 
 3  
 4% 
 13  
 18% 
 14  
 19% 
 30  
 41% 
 30  
 41%

Bortezomib Relapsed (n=20) 
 2  
 10% 
 7  
 35% 
 4  
 20% 
 13  
 65% 
 7  
 35%

Bortezomib Refractory (n=53) 
 1  
 2% 
 6  
 11% 
 10  
 19% 
 17  
 32% 
 23  
 43%




*nCR = Near Complete Response is defined as meeting the criteria for CR (non-detectable monoclonal protein by serum and urine),
except with detectable monoclonal protein by immunofixation.




**
SD = Stable Disease for a minimum of 3 months.

 
Median PFS and OS data for all evaluable patients
was as follows:
  


Evaluable Patients
 
Median PFS*
 
Median OS*

All Evaluable Patients (n=73)
 

6.4 months
95% CI (5.3 - 7.1)
 

25 months
95% CI (16.3 - 31.1)

 

*Median PFS and median TTP were identical, as no patient deaths occurred prior to progression. Kaplan Meier methodology was
used to determine PFS and OS figures.


 
Median PFS and OS for bortezomib relapsed vs.
refractory were as follows:
 



Bortezomib Relapsed vs. Refractory
 
Median PFS*
 
Median OS*

Bortezomib Relapsed (n=20)
 

8.8 months
95% CI (6.3 - 11.2)
 

30.4 months
95% CI (17.8 - NR**)

Bortezomib Refractory (n=53)
 

5.7 months
95% CI (4.3 - 6.4)
 

22.5 months
95% CI (14.2 - 31.1)





*Median PFS and median TTP were identical, as no patient deaths occurred prior to progression. Kaplan Meier methodology was
used to determine PFS and OS figures.

**NR = Not reached as of December 2011.
 
No unexpected adverse events have been observed. Toxicities
were manageable with supportive care.
 
In December 2010, at the ASH annual meeting,
we announced updated results from a Phase 1 study of perifosine + lenalidomide (Revlimid®) + dexamethasone in patients
with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. The data showed a 73% objective response rate (MR or better) with a 50% PR or better
rate, a median PFS of 10.8 months, and a median duration for OS of 30.6 months. The myeloma investigators concluded that perifosine
in combination with lenalidomide + dexamethasone was well tolerated, even at the highest doses used, and demonstrated encouraging
clinical activity and survival.
 
Multiple Myeloma Phase 3 Registration Clinical Trial
 
In December 2009, we initiated a Phase 3 registration
clinical trial for KRX-0401 (perifosine) in relapsed / refractory multiple myeloma patients. The trial, entitled, "A Phase
3 Randomized Study to Assess the Efficacy and Safety of Perifosine Added to the Combination of Bortezomib (Velcade®)
and Dexamethasone in Multiple Myeloma Patients Previously Treated with Bortezomib" is a randomized (1:1), double-blind, placebo-controlled
trial comparing the efficacy and safety of perifosine vs. placebo when combined with bortezomib (Velcade®)
and dexamethasone. The trial will enroll approximately 400 patients with relapsed or relapsed / refractory multiple myeloma. Patients
will be randomized to bortezomib at 1.3 mg/m2 days 1, 4, 8 and 11 every 21 days
in combination with dexamethasone 20 mg on the day of and day after bortezomib treatment, and either perifosine 50 mg daily or
placebo. Patients eligible for the Phase 3 trial must have been previously treated with both bortezomib (Velcade®
) and an immunomodulatory agent (Revlimid®
and/or Thalomid®), and been previously
treated with one to four prior lines of therapy. The primary endpoint is PFS and secondary endpoints include ORR, OS and safety. Patients
can be relapsed from and refractory to all non-bortezomib based therapies, however, patients can only be relapsed (progressed >
60 days after discontinuing therapy) from prior bortezomib-based therapies. The study is powered at 90% to demonstrate a 50%
improvement in PFS between the two arms. Approximately 265 events (defined as disease progression or death) will trigger the
un-blinding of the data. This trial is being conducted pursuant to an SPA with the FDA. Additionally, the FDA has granted
perifosine Orphan Drug and Fast Track designations in this indication.
 


7
 


 
The Phase 3 trial is being led by the Principal
Investigator, Dr. Paul Richardson, Clinical Director of the Jerome Lipper Multiple Myeloma Center, at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
or DFCI, in Boston, MA and Dr. Kenneth C, Anderson, Chief, Division of Hematologic Neoplasia at DFCI. Approximately 80 sites
throughout North America, Western and Eastern Europe, Israel and South Korea are currently participating in this Phase 3 trial.
 
Multiple Myeloma Market Opportunity
 
Multiple myeloma, a cancer of the plasma cell,
is an incurable but treatable disease. Multiple myeloma is the second most-common hematologic cancer, representing 1% of all cancer
diagnoses and 2% of all cancer deaths. According to the American Cancer Society, in 2012 there will be an estimated 21,700 new
cases of multiple myeloma and an estimated 10,710 deaths from multiple myeloma in the U.S. To date, several FDA approved therapies
exist for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Despite this progress, patients continue to relapse, become refractory to prior treatments
and eventually die from their disease. Thus, new therapies are needed to treat these patients and extend their survival.
 
Renal Cell Carcinoma Clinical Data
 
On September 26, 2009, Dr. Thomas E. Hutson,
Director of the Genitourinary Oncology Program at Baylor-Sammons Cancer Center in Dallas, TX, presented updated Phase 2 results
demonstrating KRX-0401 (perifosine) single agent efficacy in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma, in a presentation entitled,
"Phase 2 Study of Perifosine in Patients with Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Progressing After Prior Therapy with both a
VEGF Receptor Inhibitor and an mTOR Inhibitor." Data from this study were first presented at the ASCO annual meeting in May
2009. The presentation included results from a subgroup of patients who failed both a VEGF receptor inhibitor (sunitinib or sorafenib)
and an mTOR inhibitor (temsirolimus or everolimus). Evaluable patients (n=16) were defined as those who had greater than 7 days
of treatment (2 additional patients withdrew consent within 7 days). Patients received 100 mg of perifosine daily until progression
or unacceptable toxicity. The primary endpoint of this study was clinical benefit, defined as response rate (CR / PR by RECIST)
or percent of patients progression-free for at least 3 months. Median PFS and OS were also analyzed for efficacy. Safety was a
secondary endpoint. Perifosine was well-tolerated with the most common adverse events being gastrointestinal discomfort and fatigue.
Best response to single agent perifosine was as follows:
 



n
 
PR
n (%)
 
SD
                           > 12 wks
n (%)
 
PD
                           < 12 wks
n (%)
 
Median PFS
 
Overall Survival

16
 
1 (6%)
 
7 (44%)
 
8 (50%)
 
16 wks [95% CI (11.7, 28)]
 
Not Reached
(14/16
        alive) at 22+ months



PD: Progressive disease
 
Waldenstrom’s Macroglobulinemia Clinical Data
 
In an article entitled “Clinical and Translational
Studies of a Phase II Trial of the Novel Oral Akt Inhibitor Perifosine in Relapsed or Relapsed/Refractory Waldenstrom’s Macroglobulinemia”
which appeared in the February 1, 2010 issue of Clinical Cancer Research, we reported Phase 2 data demonstrating the single agent
activity of KRX-0401 (perifosine) for the treatment of advanced Waldenstrom’s Macroglobulinemia, or Waldenstrom’s.
In the Phase 2 study, 37 patients were treated with KRX-0401 (perifosine) 150 mg daily for 6 cycles. In this study, 41% of the
patients had 3 or more lines of prior therapy and 78% had 2 or more prior lines of therapy. Such prior therapies include nucleoside
analogues, bortezomib, alkylating agents and rituximab (Rituxan®), which are not approved for, but are often used
in the treatment of Waldenstrom’s. Stable or responding patients were allowed to continue therapy until progression. Of the
37 patients, 4 achieved a PR (11%), 9 achieved a MR (24%), and 20 showed SD (54%). Overall, 89% (33/37) of patients treated with
single agent perifosine were reported to have SD or better, while 11% (4 patients) demonstrated progression. The median progression-free
survival in the study was 12.6 months (90% C.I. (10.2, 22.7)), with a median overall survival of 26 months (90% C.I. (26 –
upper limit not reached)). Perifosine was generally well-tolerated with gastrointestinal symptoms and fatigue reported as the most
common adverse events related to therapy.
 
Also described in the article are translational
studies using gene expression profiling and immunohistochemistry on pre- versus post-treatment patient samples. Results showed
that in the majority of samples tested, there was a significant reduction of phospho-GSK3/b
(downstream from Akt) using immunohistochemistry. Similarly, results demonstrated that perifosine significantly inhibited the expression
of multiple members of the NF-kB family of genes, confirming previous in vitro studies showing activity of perifosine targeting
this pathway.
 


8
 


 
Recurrent Pediatric Solid Tumors, Including Neuroblastoma 
 
In June 2010, we announced interim data from
a Phase 1 clinical trial of KRX-0401 (perifosine) in recurrent pediatric solid tumors. The data was presented in the pediatric
solid tumor poster discussion session held at the 46th Annual Meeting of ASCO in Chicago. The study is being conducted by the Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center pediatric group and represents the first time that KRX-0401 has been administered in a pediatric
patient setting.
 
This Phase 1 study is a single center, open-label,
dose-escalating study to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, or PK, and to identify any dose limiting toxicity, or DLT,
of single agent perifosine in pediatric patients with any solid tumor that has failed standard therapy. Eleven patients (4 males,
7 females), at a median age of 13 years (5-18) were treated in this study as of June 2010. The following tumor types were treated:
high-grade glioma (5), medulloblastoma (2), neuroblastoma (3), and ependymoma (1). Most patients were heavily pretreated, with
a median of three prior lines of therapy. Cohorts of three patients were treated at three dose levels: 25mg/m2/day, 50mg/m2/day
and 75mg/m2/day using 50mg tablets of perifosine after a loading dose on day 1, and taking into account the drug’s long half-life
(>100hrs). No DLTs were observed at any of the three dose levels. PK data thus far suggests similar drug absorption by pediatric
patients relative to adult patients treated with single agent perifosine.
 
Of particular interest were the early signs
of clinical activity observed in two of the three patients with Stage 4 refractory neuroblastoma. Both patients were refractory
to prior treatments upon entering the study and achieved stable disease for 48 weeks and 55+ weeks (ongoing). The investigators
concluded that perifosine is well-tolerated in children with recurrent solid tumors and that these early signals of activity warrant
further investigation in patients with advanced neuroblastoma and select brain tumors. In May 2010, NCI investigators published,
in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute, in vitro and in vivo data demonstrating that perifosine targets the activation
of Akt in neuroblastoma cells and xenografts, significantly inhibits tumor growth in vivo and improves the survival of mice bearing
neuroblastoma tumors.
 
In July 2010, we announced that perifosine received
Orphan-Drug designation from the FDA for the treatment of neuroblastoma.
 
Other Indications
 
In December 2010, at the ASH annual meeting,
we announced encouraging clinical activity, safety and tolerability of perifosine in patients with advanced chronic lymphocytic
leukemia, or CLL, and Hodgkin's lymphoma, or HL. In this Phase 2 study, 26 patients were enrolled with advanced lymphoma (6 NHL,
4 CLL, 1 Waldenstroms and 15 HL). 73% of patients were previously refractory to their prior therapy, with 85% of patients having
had 4 or more prior therapies. Perifosine (50 mg, twice daily) was started as a single agent for 28 days. After 28 days, patients
achieving a PR or better were continued on single agent perifosine. Patients achieving less than a PR were given the combination
of perifosine (50 mg, twice daily) plus sorafenib (Nexavar®) at 400 mg, twice daily.
 
All of the four CLL patients in the study achieved
a PR on single-agent perifosine within one month of treatment and remained on perifosine single agent. As of December 2010, response
durations for each of the 4 patients were 4, 8, 9+ and 12 months. The remaining 22 patients were administered the combination with
sorafenib, where 5 of the 15 (33%) HL patients achieved a PR with a median response duration of 9 months. An additional 6 patients
receiving the combination (40%) achieved SD. The combination was well tolerated with no unexpected safety events. The investigators
concluded that perifosine in combination with sorafenib has significant anti-lymphoma activity in relapsed/refractory HL, and that
perifosine as a single agent induced prolonged responses in high-risk, heavily pretreated CLL patients.
 
In December 2010, at the ASH annual meeting,
we also announced interim results of another Phase 2 study of perifosine in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL. In this Phase
2 study, 12 patients with advanced CLL began treatment with single agent perifosine at 50mg, twice daily. Patients on study were
heavily pre-treated having had a median of 4 prior lines of therapy with 75% of patients classified as Rai stage IV. One patient
achieved a PR (5 months on treatment) and five additional patients achieved stable disease (median duration of 4.25 months), for
an overall 50% clinical benefit rate (PR + SD). Perifosine was well tolerated with minimal dose modifications.
 
Zerenex™ (ferric citrate)
 
Overview
 
Zerenex (ferric citrate) is an oral, ferric
iron-based compound that has the capacity to bind to phosphate in the gastrointestinal tract and form non-absorbable complexes.
Zerenex is in an ongoing Phase 3 program as a treatment for elevated serum phosphorus levels, or hyperphosphatemia, in patients
with ESRD on dialysis, under an SPA agreement with the FDA. Pursuant to the SPA agreement, the Zerenex Phase 3 registration program
in the U.S. consists of a short-term efficacy study, and a 58-week long-term safety and efficacy study. In April 2011, we reported
the final dataset from the Phase 3 short-term efficacy study. Positive top-line results from this Phase 3 short-term study were
announced in November 2010. The long-term Phase 3 study is ongoing.
 


9
 

 
Zerenex (ferric citrate) is also in Phase 3
development in Japan by JT and Torii.
 
On May 2, 2011, we announced positive Scientific
Advice from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for the development of Zerenex for the management and control of serum phosphorus
in ESRD patients undergoing dialysis, and in pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease, or CKD, patients. The Scientific Advice from
the EMA indicates that our current Phase 3 program in the U.S., if successful, in conjunction with safety data generated from other
clinical studies with Zerenex, is considered sufficient to support a European marketing authorization application, or MAA, to the
EMA for the indication in ESRD patients on dialysis. As a result, we believe that we will not need to conduct any additional clinical
trials with Zerenex in order to obtain European approval in the dialysis setting. The Scientific Advice also provided us with a
regulatory path forward in the pre-dialysis CKD setting in Europe.
 
Market Opportunity
 
In the U.S., according to data from the U.S.
Renal Data System, there are approximately 600,000 patients with ESRD and the number of ESRD patients is projected to continue
to rise in the future. The majority of ESRD patients, over 380,000, require dialysis. Phosphate retention and the resulting hyperphosphatemia
in patients with ESRD on dialysis are usually associated with secondary hyperparathyroidism, renal osteodystrophy, soft tissue
mineralization and the progression of renal failure. ESRD patients usually require treatment with phosphate-binding agents to lower
and maintain serum phosphorus at acceptable levels.
 
Aluminum-type phosphate binders were widely
used in the past. However, the systemic absorption of aluminum from these agents and the potential toxicity associated with their
use no longer make this type of binder a viable long-term treatment option.
 
Calcium-type phosphate binders are commonly
used to bind dietary phosphate; however, they promote positive net calcium balance and an increased risk of metastatic calcification
in many patients, especially in those patients taking vitamin D analogs and those with adynamic bone disease.
 
Non-calcium-based, non-absorbed phosphate binders,
including sevelamer hydrochloride and sevelamer carbonate are among the most prescribed phosphate binders in the U.S. Compared
to the calcium-type binders, fewer coronary and aortic calcifications have been documented, however, there is a risk of metabolic
acidosis with sevelamer hydrochloride, as well as the potential for gastrointestinal problems, and sevelamer can affect concomitant
vitamin K and vitamin D treatment.
 
Lanthanum-type phosphate binders are another
alternative. Lanthanum is a rare earth element and is minimally absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract. Lower level tissue deposition,
particularly in bone and liver, has been observed in animals. However, the long-term effects due to the accumulation of lanthanum
in these tissues have not been clearly determined.
 
The need for alternative phosphate-binding agents
has long been recognized, especially given the increasing prevalence of ESRD as well as shortcomings with current therapies. Zerenex
has the potential to be an effective and safe treatment in lowering and/or maintaining serum phosphorus levels between 3.5 and
5.5 mg/dL, the recommended range under the National Kidney Foundation KDOQI Clinical Practice Guidelines, in patients with ESRD
and hyperphosphatemia.
 
Phase 3 Registration Clinical Program – Short-Term Study
 
On April 28, 2011, we reported the final dataset
from the Phase 3 short-term clinical trial of Zerenex for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in end-stage renal disease patients
on dialysis. Top-line results from this Phase 3 short-term study were announced in November 2010. The final dataset was presented
at the National Kidney Foundation Spring Clinical Meetings held in Las Vegas, Nevada, in an oral presentation. In this study, conducted
pursuant to a SPA with the FDA, Zerenex met the study’s primary endpoint, described below, demonstrating a highly statistically
significant dose response. In addition, key secondary endpoints were also met.
 


10
 

 
The Phase 3 short-term study was a multicenter,
randomized, open-label trial with a two-week washout period, following which patients were randomized 1:1:1 to receive a fixed
dose of Zerenex of either 1 gram, 6 grams or 8 grams per day for a treatment period of 28 days. Zerenex was administered using
a 1 gram oral caplet formulation, and the fixed-dose arms of 1 gram, 6 grams and 8 grams per day represented 1, 6 and 8 pills per
day, respectively. One hundred fifty-one dialysis patients were enrolled into the study. The Intent-to-Treat, or ITT, group included
146 patients, representing all patients who took at least one dose of Zerenex and provided a Baseline (at the end of washout) and
at least one post-Baseline efficacy assessment. Efficacy assessments were taken weekly starting at Baseline and subsequently at
days 7, 14, 21 and 28. The primary endpoint of the study was to determine whether there was a dose response in the change in serum
phosphorus from Baseline to Day 28 in the ITT group, using a regression analysis to evaluate this objective.
 
The study met the primary endpoint, with the
regression analysis indicating a highly statistically significant dose response (p<0.0001). Additional efficacy results are
as follows:
 




Mean Serum Phosphorus (mg/dL) 
ITT (n=146)
 
1g/Day  (n=50)
 
 
6g/Day  (n=51)
 
 
8g/Day  (n=45)
 

Baseline (End of Washout)
 
7.3
 
 
7.6
 
 
7.5
 

Day 28 (End of Treatment)
 
7.4
 
 
5.6
 
 
5.3
 

Change from Baseline at Day 28 
P-Value
 
0.1
 
 
-2.0
<0.0001
 
 
-2.2
<0.0001
 

% Change from Baseline at Day 28
 
0.5%

 
-25.7%

 
-29.6%




 
 
In addition, a statistically significant dose
response increase in serum bicarbonate was observed in the study, indicating the potential ability of Zerenex to address metabolic
acidosis. Metabolic acidosis is a condition that occurs in many dialysis patients when the kidneys do not remove sufficient acid
from the body, leading to low blood pH. The consequences of metabolic acidosis can be severe. The inability to manage metabolic
acidosis is believed to be a drawback for some of the currently marketed phosphate binders.
 
Importantly, no clinically meaningful change
in serum calcium was observed in the study. Additionally, a statistically significant dose response reduction in calcium-phosphorus
product was also observed in the study. Elevated levels of serum calcium (hypercalcemia) and high levels of calcium-phosphorus
product, both of which are believed to be drawbacks from the use of some of the currently marketed phosphate binders, increase
the risk of soft tissue calcification and may contribute to the substantial morbidity and mortality seen in patients with ESRD.
 
Certain iron parameters, including ferritin
and TSAT, were measured in the study. Modest upward trends in ferritin and TSAT levels were observed in the 6 grams/day and 8 grams/day
dose groups, which further support our belief that Zerenex may have the potential to reduce the need for intravenous, or IV, iron
supplements and/or erythropoiesis-stimulating agents, or ESAs, in dialysis patients. Ferritin and TSAT levels, as well as, IV iron
and ESA use, are under evaluation in the ongoing Phase 3 long-term study.
 
Zerenex appeared to be safe and well-tolerated
in the study, with no serious adverse events deemed to be drug-related by the Data Safety Monitoring Committee, which further supports
Zerenex’s favorable safety profile seen in prior clinical trials.
 
Phase 3 Registration Clinical Program – Long-Term Study
 
In September 2010, we announced the initiation
of the long-term Phase 3 study of Zerenex in patients with ESRD on dialysis. The initiation of this study marked the commencement
of the final component of our Phase 3 registration program for Zerenex, which is being conducted in accordance with a SPA agreement
with the FDA. In September 2011, we announced the completion of patient enrollment in the study. The Phase 3 long-term study is
a multicenter, randomized, open-label, safety and efficacy clinical trial in approximately 440 ESRD patients on hemodialysis or
peritoneal dialysis. The study consists of a 2-week washout period followed by a 52-week safety assessment in which patients are
randomized 2:1 to receive either Zerenex or an active control. The 52-week safety assessment period is followed by a 4-week efficacy
assessment. During the 4-week efficacy assessment, only those patients randomized to treatment with Zerenex during the safety assessment
period will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either continue treatment with Zerenex or to be switched to placebo for a 4-week period.
Approximately, 60 sites in the U.S. and select non-U.S. sites are participating in the study.
 


11
 


 
Phase 2 Clinical Data – Long-Term Open-Label Extension
Study
 
In April 2010, we reported updated long-term
efficacy and safety data on Zerenex from an open-label extension study that was conducted in Taiwan in patients with ESRD who were
on dialysis. This data was presented at the National Kidney Foundation 2010 Spring Clinical Meeting in a poster entitled “Long-Term
Use of Ferric Citrate in End-Stage Renal Disease Patients.” After the completion of a 28-day fixed dose Phase 2 clinical
trial of ferric citrate in ESRD patients, 29 patients who had participated in this trial at the site in Taiwan were offered to
continue onto an Open-Label Extension, or OLE, trial for up to one year. There was approximately a two month period between the
completion of the Phase 2 dose-ranging trial and enrollment into the OLE trial. During this time interval, no patient was exposed
to ferric citrate as a phosphate binder. Patients were immediately switched back to ferric citrate from other phosphate binders
and there was no washout period prior to starting ferric citrate treatment in the OLE trial. Of the 29 patients enrolled, 28 were
exposed to ferric citrate. The patients were started on doses of ferric citrate of 2 to 6 g/day. The maximum allowed dose was 6
g/day. The average dose per patient throughout the study was approximately 4.5 g/day. The average duration of the patient’s
participation in the trial was 306 +/- 85 days. The primary objective of this OLE trial of ferric citrate was to assess the long-term
efficacy and safety of ferric citrate as a phosphate binder in ESRD patients for up to one year. The secondary objective of this
OLE trial was to assess for the potential for iron absorption.
 
The therapeutic goal of the OLE study was to
achieve and maintain a serum phosphorus level below 5.5 mg/dL. The mean levels of serum phosphorus, or SP, and phosphorus x calcium
product, or PxC, for the evaluable patients at each time point over the treatment period were as follows:

 


 
 
SP (mg/dL)
 
PxC (mg/dL)2

Baseline (sd)
 
5.63 (1.22)
 
50.79 (12.74)

3 months (sd)
 
5.48 (1.33)
 
51.84 (12.67)

6 months (sd)
 
5.16 (1.20)
 
48.40   (9.60)

9 months (sd)
 
5.24 (1.20)
 
48.72 (12.04)

12 months (sd)
 
5.21 (1.09)
 
50.05 (11.82)

 
Iron parameters were measured at baseline and
then quarterly through month nine. On average, slight increases were observed over time, across all key parameters, as follows:
 


 
 
Baseline (sd)
 
9 Months (sd)

Ferritin (ng/mL)
 
520  (328)
 
781  (364)

TSAT (%)
 
39.2 (19.7)
 
45.5 (21.1)

Iron (mcg/dL)
 
87.8 (37.9)
 
88.3 (37.2)

HCT (%)
 
30.8   (6.9)
 
32.9  (9.7)


 
If a patient had a ferritin greater than 600
ng/mL and a TSAT greater than 50%, the use of IV iron was withheld until the patient’s ferritin and TSAT were below the above
levels during the treatment period. If a patient had a hematocrit, or HCT, greater than 36%, the use of an ESA was withheld until
the HCT was less than 36% during the treatment period.
 
There were 8 patients who had IV iron supplements
withheld for approximately 3 to 6 months and there were 8 patients who had an ESA withheld for approximately 1 to 10 months during
the OLE trial. Out of the 16 patients in the two groups, three patients had both IV iron and ESAs withheld.
 
Ferric citrate was well-tolerated throughout
the OLE study. There were no patient deaths during the OLE and no serious adverse events reported related to ferric citrate.
 
The investigators concluded that in this OLE
trial of ferric citrate with doses as high as 6 g/day, ferric citrate demonstrated the potential to be used long-term as a phosphate
binder in ESRD patients. Ferric citrate appeared to be efficacious in controlling serum phosphorus and well-tolerated and safe
for up to one year. Additionally, it is the investigators’ opinion that this OLE trial, along with data from both animal
studies and the Phase 2 high dose trial, supports the notion that some modest iron absorption may be occurring over time with the
use of ferric citrate as a phosphate binder in ESRD patients and that if a reduction in the use of IV-iron supplements and/or ESAs
are documented in future long-term clinical trials, the cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness of ferric citrate as a phosphate binder,
as compared to currently marketed phosphate binders, would be significant.
 
Phase 2 Clinical Data – Short-Term Studies
 
In June 2009, we announced results of the U.S.
Phase 2 study of Zerenex for the treatment of elevated serum phosphorus levels, or hyperphosphatemia, in patients with ESRD on
thrice weekly hemodialysis. The study was a multicenter, open-label clinical trial, which enrolled 55 patients. The primary objective
of this study was to assess the tolerability and safety of Zerenex with doses ranging from approximately 1 gram per day to 12 grams
per day.
 


12
 


 
In the first part of the Phase 2 study, 34 ESRD
patients who were taking approximately 6 to 15 tablets/capsules per day of calcium acetate, calcium carbonate, lanthanum carbonate
or sevelamer hydrochloride or any combination of these agents were eligible for enrollment and immediately switched to a starting
dose of 4.5 grams per day of Zerenex. In the second part of the study, 21 ESRD patients who were taking greater than 12 tablets/capsules
per day of calcium acetate, calcium carbonate, lanthanum carbonate or sevelamer hydrochloride or any combination of these agents
were eligible for enrollment and immediately switched to a starting dose of 6.0 grams per day of Zerenex. Patients were treated
with Zerenex for four weeks and were titrated weekly to achieve and maintain normal serum phosphorus levels, between 3.5 to 5.5
mg/dL, the therapeutic goal.
 
Although designed primarily as a safety study,
key efficacy parameters were evaluated, with results as follows:
 
At baseline:
 

·Baseline mean +/- standard deviation, or SD, serum phosphorus was approximately 5.9 +/- 1.5 mg/dL immediately prior to the
switch to Zerenex;
 

·The average daily dose of PhosLo(R) (calcium acetate) was 6.9 grams per day and for Renagel(R) (sevelamer
hydrochloride) was 9.9 grams per day, for patients not on combination therapy prior to the switch to Zerenex.
 
Following the treatment period (four weeks on Zerenex): 
 

·At the end of the treatment period (after four weeks on Zerenex) the mean +/- SD serum phosphorus was approximately 5.4 +/-
1.3 mg/dL;
 

·The average daily dose of Zerenex at the end of four weeks of treatment was 6.8 grams per day;
 
In the subset of 29 patients who had a serum
phosphorus above the normal range (> 5.5 mg/dL) at baseline, immediately prior to the switch to Zerenex, the mean (standard
deviation) baseline serum phosphorus was 7.0 (1.1) mg/dL, and at the end of treatment with Zerenex the mean (SD) serum phosphorus
was 5.6 (1.6) mg/dL.
 
In the Phase 2 study, there were four serious
adverse events which were deemed unrelated to Zerenex. Darkened stool was reported in the study and was associated with the presence
of iron in the gastrointestinal tract. With the exception of the reporting of darkened stool as an (asymptomatic) adverse event,
the gastrointestinal adverse event profile was similar in incidence to that reported for other currently marketed phosphate binders.
There was no increase in serum calcium noted in the study.
 
Following the results of the U.S. Phase 2 study
of Zerenex announced in June 2009, the top line efficacy and safety results from this Phase 2 study were submitted to the FDA.
The FDA also reviewed the final reports for the 90-day rat and 16-week canine toxicology studies. The FDA indicated that the results
of the Phase 2 study and the toxicology studies were adequate to support entry into a Phase 3 program. The FDA also reviewed the
protocols for the ongoing chronic toxicology studies (6-month rat and 42-week canine), which were completed and submitted to the
FDA in 2010.
 
In June 2006, we announced final results from
the Phase 2 multi-center study entitled: “A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose ranging study of the effects
of Zerenex on serum phosphate in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD).” This Phase 2 study was conducted under an
investigational new drug application, or IND, sponsored by our licensor in both the U.S. and Taiwan.
 
From this Phase 2 study, the investigators concluded
that Zerenex appeared to have an acceptable safety and tolerability profile at the 2, 4, and 6g/day dose. The optimum dose of Zerenex
in this study was 6g/day at which it appeared to be efficacious, safe and well tolerated as treatment for hyperphosphatemia in
hemodialysis patients. Additionally, the investigators found that Zerenex therapy for up to 28 days had no statistically significant
effect on serum iron, ferritin, transferrin saturation, or total iron binding capacity.
 
The Phase 2 study was designed to determine
the safety and efficacy of several doses of Zerenex in patients with ESRD who were undergoing hemodialysis. In this study, each
of three Zerenex doses (2g, 4g and 6g) administered daily with meals was compared to placebo. Patients who had been on other phosphate
binders prior to enrolling in this study underwent a 1-2-week washout period prior to randomization. Patients who had a serum phosphorus
level greater than or equal to 5.5 mg/dl and less than or equal to 10 mg/dl by the end of this washout period were eligible to
be randomized to one of four treatment groups at a ratio of 2:2:2:1, (Zerenex 2g, 4g, 6g and placebo, respectively) and were treated
for 28 days. The primary endpoint for this study was the change in serum phosphorus concentration at day 28 relative to baseline.
 


13
 


 
Of the 116 patients randomized in the study,
111 patients were evaluable for efficacy at 28 days and were included in the analysis. At day 28, there was a statistically significant
dose response to Zerenex in reducing serum phosphorus concentration (p=0.0073).
 
Changes in Serum Phosphorus Concentration (mg/dL) on day 28 compared
to day 0 (baseline) at Zerenex doses of 2, 4 and 6 g/day


 



 
 

Placebo
(n=16)
 

2g/day
(n=31)
 

4g/day
(n=32)
 

6g/day
(n=32)

Day 0 (Baseline)*
 
7.2 (1.4)
 
7.2 (1.2)
 
7.1 (1.3)
 
7.3 (1.3)

Day 28 (End of Treatment Period)*
 
7.2 (1.2)
 
6.9 (2.2)
 
6.0 (1.3)
 
5.8 (1.8)

Placebo Comparison:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Mean Difference from Placebo
 
 
 
-0.02
 
-1.1
 
-1.5

P-value
 
 
 
NS
 
0.06
 
0.0119

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Baseline Comparison:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Mean Difference from Baseline
 
-0.1
 
-0.3
 
-1.1
 
-1.5

P-value
 
NS
 
NS
 
NS
 
<0.01


*mean (standard deviation)

  
There was also a statistically significant dose
response to Zerenex in the calcium x phosphorus (Ca x P) product at day 28 (p=0.0158). In the 6g/day Zerenex group the mean decrease
in Ca x P product when compared with placebo was statistically significant (p=0.0378).
 
There were no deaths over the course of the
28 day study and there were no serious adverse events that were deemed by the investigators to be related to Zerenex. Safety was
assessed in 16, 33, 34 and 33 patients, in the placebo, 2, 4, and 6 grams per day groups, respectively. Possibly or probably related
adverse events occurred in 4 (25.0%), 7 (21.2%), 8 (23.5%), and 7 (21.2%) patients in the placebo, 2, 4, and 6 grams per day treatment
groups, respectively. The majority of adverse events were of mild severity, with 1 (6.3%), 0 (0.0%), 2 (5.9%), and 1 (3.0%) patients,
of the placebo, 2, 4, and 6 grams per day groups, respectively, experiencing at least one severe adverse event.
 
In addition, Zerenex has been studied in two
previous Phase 2 clinical trials using single fixed dose regimens. In both studies, Zerenex was able to significantly reduce serum
phosphorus (p <0.005), and the degree of reduction appeared to be generally comparable to calcium-based products which were
used as positive control arms in those studies. The studies were not designed to compare Zerenex to calcium-based products, therefore,
no formal assessment can be made of the comparative efficacy.
 
COSTS AND TIME TO COMPLETE PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
 
The information below provides estimates regarding
the costs associated with the completion of the current development phase and our current estimated range of the time that will
be necessary to complete that development phase for our key pipeline products. We also direct your attention to the risk factors
which could significantly affect our ability to meet these cost and time estimates found in this report in Item 1A under the heading
“Risks Associated with Our Product Development Efforts.”

 


Product
    candidate
 
Target
    indication
 
Development
    status
 
Expected
    completion of phase
 
Estimated
    cost to  complete phase

KRX-0401 (perifosine)
 
Colorectal cancer
Multiple myeloma
 
Phase 3, under SPA
Phase 3, under SPA
 
1H 2012
1H 2013
 
$2 - $3 million
$10 - $13 million*

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Zerenex™ (ferric citrate)
 
Hyperphosphatemia in patients
with end-stage renal disease 
 
Phase 3, under SPA 
 
2H 2012
 
$6 - $7 million


 
* Includes estimated cost of Velcade®
in those non-U.S. countries where Velcade® is not reimbursed.


 


Completion dates and costs in the above table
are estimates and are subject to the uncertainties associated with clinical trials and the related requirements of development.
In the cases where the requirements for clinical trials and development programs have not been fully defined, or are dependent
on the success of other trials, we cannot estimate trial completion or cost with any certainty. The actual spending on each trial
during the year is also dependent on our ability to fund such clinical trials. We therefore direct your attention to Item 7 under
the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 
 


14
 

 
 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PATENTS
 
General
 
Patents and other proprietary rights are very
important to the development of our business. We will be able to protect our proprietary technologies from unauthorized use by
third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents supported by regulatory
exclusivity or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. It is our intention to seek and maintain patent and trade secret protection
for our drug candidates and our proprietary technologies. As part of our business strategy, our policy is to actively file patent
applications in the U.S. and, when appropriate, internationally to cover methods of use, processes of manufacture, new chemical
compounds, pharmaceutical compositions and dosing of the compounds and compositions and improvements in each of these. We also
rely on trade secret information, technical know-how, innovation and agreements with third parties to continuously expand and protect
our competitive position. We have a number of patents and patent applications related to our compounds and other technology, but
we cannot guarantee the scope of protection of the issued patents, or that such patents will survive a validity or enforceability
challenge, or that any of the pending patent applications will issue as patents.
 
Generally, patent applications in the U.S. are
maintained in secrecy for a period of 18 months or more. Since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature
often lag behind actual discoveries, we are not certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending
patent applications or that we were the first to file those patent applications. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical
companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, we cannot predict the breadth of claims
allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents, or their enforceability. To date, there has been no consistent policy regarding
the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. Third parties or competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or
patent applications, if issued. If our competitors prepare and file patent
applications in the U.S. that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared
by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost, even if the
eventual outcome is favorable to us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review
of a potential product, it is possible that before we commercialize any of our products, any related patent may expire or remain
in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent. However, the life
of a patent covering a product that has been subject to regulatory approval may have the ability be extended through the patent
restoration program, although any such extension could still be minimal.
 
If a patent is issued to a third party containing
one or more preclusive or conflicting claims, and those claims are ultimately determined to be valid and enforceable, we may be
required to obtain a license under such patent or to develop or obtain alternative technology. In the event of a litigation involving
a third party claim, an adverse outcome in the litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to such third party, require
us to seek a license for the disputed rights from such third party, and/or require us to cease use of the technology. Further,
our breach of an existing license or failure to obtain a license to technology required to commercialize our products may seriously
harm our business. We also may need to commence litigation to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity
of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation would involve substantial costs.
 
Pursuant to our license for KRX-0401 (perifosine)
with AEterna Zentaris Inc., we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patents and patent applications in the U.S.,
Canada and Mexico. These patents and patent applications include a composition of matter patent expiring in the second half of
2013 (with possible patent term extension through the second half of 2018, which is the maximum term of extension under the patent
term restoration program), as well as a method of use patent application, directed to the use of perifosine in combination with
various other anticancer agents, which would expire in 2023. We have also filed a patent application relating to the combination
use of perifosine and capecitabine, which would expire in 2031.
 
Pursuant to our license for Zerenex (ferric
citrate) with Panion & BF Biotech, Inc., or Panion, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patent applications
worldwide, excluding certain Asian-Pacific countries. These patents and patent applications cover a composition of matter and method
of treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with ESRD (expiring in the second half of 2017, with possible patent term extension
through 2020 or later), as well as a method for the manufacture of ferric citrate (expiring 2023). We have also filed a patent
application relating to the formulation of ferric citrate drug product.
 


15
 


 
The patent rights that we own or have licensed
relating to our product candidates are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against
us if we obtain regulatory approval to market these product candidates. In particular:
 

·Our composition of matter patent covering KRX-0401 (perifosine) expires in the second half of 2013 and we cannot assure you
that we can obtain an extension to the second half of 2018 (the maximum term of extension under the patent term restoration program).
Our composition of matter patent covering Zerenex expires in the second half of 2017 and we cannot assure you that we can obtain
an extension to 2022 (the maximum term of extension under the patent term restoration program). Composition of matter patents can
provide protection for pharmaceutical products to the extent that the specifically covered compositions are important. Upon expiration
of our composition of matter patents for KRX-0401 and Zerenex, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer
products with the same composition as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any other patents that we may hold,
such as method of use patents.
 

·Our method of use patents only protect the products when used or sold for the specified method. However, this type of patent
does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product that is labeled for an indication
that is outside of our patented method, or for which there is a substantial use in commerce outside our patented method.
 

·Our pending patent applications may not issue as patents and may not issue in all countries in which we develop, manufacture
or potentially sell our products or in countries where others develop, manufacture and potentially sell products using our technologies. Moreover,
our pending patent applications, if issued as patents, may not provide additional protection for our products.
 

·Because clinical trials for KRX-0401 and Zerenex are ongoing, and because any potential date for regulatory approval is currently
unknown, it is possible that the life of these patents following regulatory approval will be minimal, even if the above-discussed
extensions are obtained.
 
Proof of direct infringement by a competitor
for method of use patents can prove difficult because the competitors making and marketing a product typically do not engage in
the patented use. Additionally, proof that a competitor contributes to or induces infringement of a patented method of use by another
can also prove difficult because an off-label use of a product could prohibit a finding of contributory infringement and inducement
of infringement requires proof of intent by the competitor.
 
Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive
identical product for indications other than the one for which the product has been approved, or off-label indications, that are
covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may directly infringe or contribute to or induce infringement
of method of use patents, such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute.
 
In addition, the limited patent protection described
above may adversely affect the value of our product candidates and may inhibit our ability to obtain a corporate partner at terms
acceptable to us, if at all.
 
Other Intellectual Property Rights
 
We depend upon trademarks, trade secrets, know-how
and continuing technological advances to develop and maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade
secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, scientific advisors, consultants and collaborators, upon commencement
of a relationship with us, to execute confidentiality agreements and, in the case of parties other than our research and development
collaborators, to agree to assign their inventions to us. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information
and to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed in connection with their relationship with us. These agreements may
not, however, provide protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information.
 


16
 

 
In addition to patent protection, we may utilize
orphan drug regulations or other provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938, as amended, or FDCA, to provide market
exclusivity for certain of our drug candidates. Orphan drug regulations provide incentives to pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies to develop and manufacture drugs for the treatment of rare diseases, currently defined as diseases that exist in fewer
than 200,000 individuals in the U.S., or, diseases that affect more than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. but that the sponsor does
not realistically anticipate will generate a net profit. Under these provisions, a manufacturer of a designated orphan-drug can
seek tax benefits, and the holder of the first FDA approval of a designated orphan product will be granted a seven-year period
of marketing exclusivity for such FDA-approved orphan product. In September 2009, we announced that KRX-0401 (perifosine) has received
Orphan-Drug designation from the FDA for the treatment of multiple myeloma, and in July 2010, we announced that KRX-0401 has received
Orphan-Drug designation from the FDA for the treatment of neuroblastoma. We believe that KRX-0401 may be eligible for additional
orphan drug designations; however, we cannot assure that KRX-0401, or any other drug candidates we may acquire or in-license, will
obtain such orphan drug designations. Additionally, upon FDA approval, we believe that perifosine would qualify as a New Chemical
Entity, or NCE, which provides for five years of exclusivity following approval.
 
We cannot assure that any other drug candidates
we may acquire or in-license, will obtain such orphan drug designation or that we will be the first to receive FDA approval for
such drugs so as to be eligible for market exclusivity protection.
 
LICENSING AGREEMENTS AND COLLABORATIONS
 
We have formed strategic alliances with a number
of companies for the manufacture and commercialization of our products. Our current key strategic alliances are discussed below.
 
AEterna Zentaris Inc.
 
In September 2002, we signed a commercial license
agreement with Zentaris AG, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEterna Zentaris Inc., or Zentaris, relating to the development of perifosine
covering composition of matter and methods of treatment. This agreement grants us the exclusive rights to KRX-0401 (perifosine)
in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. To date, we have paid an aggregate of $1.8 million to Zentaris and Zentaris is eligible to receive
additional payments of up to an aggregate of $17.0 million upon our successful achievement of certain clinical development, regulatory
and sales milestones, in addition to royalty payments on net sales of perifosine. The license terminates upon the later of the
expiration of all underlying patent rights or ten years from the first commercial sale of KRX-0401 in any of the covered territories.
 
Panion & BF Biotech, Inc.
 
In November 2005, we entered into a license
agreement with Panion & BF Biotech, Inc., or Panion. Under the license agreement, we have acquired the exclusive worldwide
rights, excluding certain Asian-Pacific countries, for the development and marketing of Zerenex (ferric citrate). To date, we have
paid an aggregate of $3.6 million to Panion and Panion is eligible to receive additional payments of up to an aggregate of $8.0
million upon our successful achievement of certain clinical development and regulatory milestones, in addition to royalty payments
on net sales of Zerenex. The license terminates upon the expiration of all underlying patent rights.
 
Japan Tobacco Inc. and Torii Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
 
In September 2007 (amended and restated in June
2009), we entered into a sublicense agreement with JT and Torii, JT's pharmaceutical business subsidiary, under which JT and Torii
obtained the exclusive rights for the development and commercialization of Zerenex (ferric citrate) in Japan. The licensing arrangement
calls for JT and Torii to pay us up to $100 million in up-front license fees and payments upon the achievement of pre-specified
milestones, of which we have received $28 million, including the milestone payment of $5.0 million in April 2011 for the achievement
of the Phase 3 commencement milestone. In addition, upon commercialization, JT and Torii will make royalty payments to Keryx on
net sales of ferric citrate in Japan. JT and Torii are responsible for the development and commercialization costs in Japan.
 
COMPETITION
 
Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries is intense. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and
biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies that are
active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors have significantly greater
capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation,
manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners
for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are competitive with ours. To compete successfully in
this industry we must identify novel and unique drugs or methods of treatment and then complete the development of those drugs
as treatments in advance of our competitors. 
 


17
 

 
The drugs that we are attempting to develop
will have to compete with existing therapies. In addition, a large number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals
that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting. Other
companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which
we are also seeking to discover and develop drug candidates. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development
than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. Additional information can be found under Item 1A - Risk Factors
– Other Risks Related to Our Business within this report.
 
SUPPLY AND MANUFACTURING
 
We have limited experience in manufacturing
products for clinical or commercial purposes.
 
We have established contract manufacturing relationships
for the supply of KRX-0401 (perifosine). We have also established contract manufacturing relationships for the supply of Zerenex
(ferric citrate) to ensure that we will have sufficient material for clinical trials. In addition, we are establishing the basis
for commercial production capabilities. As with any supply program, obtaining raw materials of the correct quality cannot be guaranteed
and we cannot ensure that we will be successful in this endeavor.
 
At the time of commercial sale, to the extent
possible and commercially practicable, we would seek to engage a back-up supplier for each of our product candidates. Until such
time, we expect that we will rely on a single contract manufacturer to produce each of our product candidates under current Good
Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations. Our third-party manufacturers have a limited number of facilities in which our product
candidates can be produced and will have limited experience in manufacturing our product candidates in quantities sufficient for
commercialization. Our third-party manufacturers will have other clients and may have other priorities that could affect their
ability to perform the work satisfactorily and/or on a timely basis. Both of these occurrences would be beyond our control. 
 
We expect to similarly rely on contract manufacturing
relationships for any products that we may in-license or acquire in the future. However, there can be no assurance that we will
be able to successfully contract with such manufacturers on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
 
Contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing
periodic and unannounced inspections by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration and corresponding state agencies to ensure
strict compliance with cGMP and other state and federal regulations. Our contractors in Europe face similar challenges from the
numerous European Union and member state regulatory agencies and authorized bodies. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’
compliance with these regulations and standards, other than through contractual obligations and periodic auditing. If they are
deemed out of compliance with cGMPs, approvals could be delayed, product recalls could result, inventory could be destroyed, production
could be stopped and supplies could be delayed or otherwise disrupted.
 
If we need to change manufacturers after commercialization,
the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve these new manufacturers in advance, which will involve testing
and additional inspections to ensure compliance with FDA regulations and standards and may require significant lead times and delay,
and disruption of supply. Furthermore, switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is
limited. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer quickly or on terms acceptable to us, or at
all.
 
GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY REGULATION
 
Numerous governmental authorities, principally
the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies, impose substantial regulations upon the clinical development,
manufacture and marketing of our drug candidates, as well as our ongoing research and development activities. None of our drug
candidates have been approved for sale in any market in which we have marketing rights. Before marketing in the U.S., any drug
that we develop must undergo rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented
by the FDA under the FDCA. The FDA regulates, among other things, the
pre-clinical and clinical testing, safety, efficacy, approval, manufacturing, record keeping, adverse event reporting, packaging,
labeling, storage, advertising, promotion, export, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products.
 
The regulatory review and approval process is
lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We are required to submit extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and supporting information
to the FDA for each indication or use to establish a drug candidate’s safety and efficacy before we can secure FDA approval
to market or sell a product in the U.S. The approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources
and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or surveillance. Before commencing clinical trials in humans, we
must submit an IND to the FDA containing, among other things, pre-clinical data, chemistry, manufacturing and control information,
and an investigative plan. Our submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence a clinical trial.
  

18
 


 
The FDA may permit expedited development, evaluation,
and marketing of new therapies intended to treat persons with serious or life-threatening conditions for which there is an unmet
medical need under its fast track drug development programs. A sponsor can apply for fast track designation at the time of submission
of an IND, or at any time prior to receiving marketing approval of the new drug application, or NDA. To receive Fast Track designation,
an applicant must demonstrate:
 

·that the drug is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition;
 

·that the drug is intended to treat a serious aspect of the condition; and
 

·that the drug has the potential to address unmet medical needs, and this potential is being evaluated in the planned drug development
program.
  
The FDA must respond to a request for fast track
designation within 60 calendar days of receipt of the request. Over the course of drug development, a product in a fast track development
program must continue to meet the criteria for fast track designation. Sponsors of products in fast track drug development programs
must be in regular contact with the reviewing division of the FDA to ensure that the evidence necessary to support marketing approval
will be developed and presented in a format conducive to an efficient review. Sponsors of products in fast track drug development
programs ordinarily are eligible for priority review of a completed application in six months or less and also may be permitted
to submit portions of a NDA to the FDA for review before the complete application is submitted.
 
Sponsors of drugs designated as fast track also
may seek approval under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations. Under this authority, the FDA may grant marketing approval
for a new drug product on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect
on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely, based on epidemiologic, therapeutic, pathophysiologic, or other evidence, to
predict clinical benefit or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity.  
Approval will be subject to the requirement that the applicant study the drug further to verify and describe its clinical benefit
where there is uncertainty as to the relation of the surrogate endpoint to clinical benefit or uncertainty as to the relation of
the observed clinical benefit to ultimate outcome.  Post-marketing studies are usually underway at the time an applicant files
the NDA.  When required to be conducted, such post-marketing studies must also be adequate and well-controlled.  The
applicant must carry out any such post-marketing studies with due diligence. Many companies who have been granted the right to
utilize an accelerated approval approach have failed to obtain approval. Moreover, negative or inconclusive results from the clinical
trials we hope to conduct or adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Accordingly,
we may not be able to complete the clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all, and, therefore, could not submit
the NDA to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for marketing approval.
 
Clinical testing must meet requirements for
institutional review board oversight, informed consent and good clinical practices, and must be conducted pursuant to an IND, unless
exempted.
 
For purposes of NDA approval, clinical trials
are typically conducted in the following sequential phases:
 

·Phase 1: The drug is administered to a small group of humans, either healthy volunteers or patients, to test for safety,
dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, excretion, and clinical pharmacology.
 

·Phase 2: Studies are conducted on a larger number of patients to assess the efficacy of the product, to ascertain dose
tolerance and the optimal dose range, and to gather additional data relating to safety and potential adverse events.
 

·Phase 3: Studies establish safety and efficacy in an expanded patient population.
 

·Phase 4: The FDA may require Phase 4 post-marketing studies to find out more about the drug’s long-term risks,
benefits, and optimal use, or to test the drug in different populations.
  
 


19
 


   
The length of time necessary to complete clinical
trials varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations
that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical
trials, or that may increase the costs of these trials, include:
 

·slow patient enrollment due to the nature of the clinical trial plan, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility
criteria for participation in the study or other factors;
 

·inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials or
delays in approvals from a study site’s review board;
 

·longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy or determine the appropriate product dose;
 

·insufficient supply of the drug candidates;
 

·adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and
 

·ineffectiveness of the drug candidates.
 
In addition, the FDA, equivalent foreign regulatory
authority, or a data safety monitoring committee for a trial may place a clinical trial on hold or terminate it if it concludes
that subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk, or for futility. Any drug is likely to produce some toxicity or
undesirable side effects in animals and in humans when administered at sufficiently high doses and/or for a sufficiently long period
of time. Unacceptable toxicity or side effects may occur at any dose level at any time in the course of studies in animals designed
to identify unacceptable effects of a drug candidate, known as toxicological studies, or clinical trials of drug candidates. The
appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side effect could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, limit, delay or abort
the development of any of our drug candidates and could ultimately prevent approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities
for any or all targeted indications.
 
Sponsors of drugs may apply for an SPA from
the FDA. The SPA process is a procedure by which the FDA provides official evaluation and written guidance on the design and size
of proposed protocols that are intended to form the basis for a new drug application. However, final marketing approval depends
on the results of efficacy, the adverse event profile and an evaluation of the benefit/risk of treatment demonstrated in the Phase
3 trial. The SPA agreement may only be changed through a written agreement between the sponsor and the FDA, or if the FDA becomes
aware of a substantial scientific issue essential to product safety or efficacy.
 
Before receiving FDA approval to market a product,
we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for its intended use by submitting to the FDA an NDA containing the
pre-clinical and clinical data that have been accumulated, together with chemistry and manufacturing and controls specifications
and information, and proposed labeling, among other things. The FDA may refuse to accept an NDA for filing if certain content criteria
are not met and, even after accepting an NDA, the FDA may often require additional information, including clinical data, before
approval of marketing a product. Whether or not the FDA requests additional information, there is no assurance that the NDA will
be approved.
 
It is also becoming more common for the FDA
to request a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, as part of a NDA. The REMS plan contains post-market obligations
of the sponsor to train prescribing physicians, monitor off-label drug use, and conduct sufficient Phase 4 follow-up studies and
registries to ensure the continued safe use of the drug.
 
As part of the approval process, the FDA must
inspect and approve each manufacturing facility. Among the conditions of approval is the requirement that a manufacturer’s
quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP. Manufacturers must expend significant time, money and effort to ensure
continued compliance, and, in addition to preapproval inspections, the FDA conducts periodic inspections to evaluate continued
compliance with cGMP and other requirements. It may be difficult for our manufacturers or us to comply with the applicable cGMP,
as interpreted by the FDA, and other FDA regulatory requirements. If we, or our contract manufacturers, fail to comply, then the
FDA may not allow us to market products that have been affected by the failure.
 
If the FDA grants approval, the approval will
be limited to those disease states, conditions and patient populations for which the product is deemed to be safe and effective,
as demonstrated through clinical studies and other data submitted in the NDA. Further, a product may be marketed only in those
dosage forms and for those indications approved in the NDA. Certain changes to an approved NDA, including, with certain exceptions,
any significant changes to manufacturing, drug product, or labeling, require approval of a supplemental application before the
drug may be marketed as changed. Any products that we manufacture or distribute pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing
monitoring and regulation by the FDA, including compliance with cGMP and the reporting of adverse experiences with the drugs. The
nature of marketing claims that the FDA will permit us to make in the labeling and advertising of our products will generally be
limited to those specified in FDA approved labeling, and the advertising of our products will be subject to comprehensive monitoring,
review and regulation by the FDA. Drugs whose review was accelerated may carry additional restrictions on marketing activities,
including the requirement that all promotional materials are pre-submitted to the FDA. Claims exceeding or deemed inconsistent
with those contained in approved labeling, or deemed to be false or misleading, may constitute a violation of the FDCA. Violations
of the FDCA or regulatory requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process, or marketing and sale
following approval may result in agency enforcement actions, including withdrawal of approval, recall, seizure of products, warning
letters, injunctions, fines and/or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency enforcement action could have a material adverse effect
on our business.
 


20
 


 
Should we wish to market our products outside
the U.S., we must receive marketing authorization from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. The requirements governing
the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. At present,
companies are typically required to apply for foreign marketing authorizations at a national level. However, within the European
Union, registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product in more than one European Union member state.
Typically, if the regulatory authority is satisfied that a company has presented adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy,
then the regulatory authority will grant a marketing authorization. This foreign regulatory approval process, however, involves
risks similar or identical to the risks associated with FDA approval discussed above, and therefore we cannot guarantee that we
will be able to obtain the appropriate marketing authorization for any product in any particular country.
 
Failure to comply with applicable federal, state
and foreign laws and regulations would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, federal, state and foreign
laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of new drugs are subject to future changes. We cannot predict the likelihood,
nature, effect or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action,
either in the U.S. or abroad.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Company-sponsored research and development expenses
(excluding non-cash compensation and discontinued operations) totaled $7,372,000 in 2009, $13,728,000 in 2010 and $26,209,000 in
2011. “Other research and development expenses” consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs, fees paid
to consultants and outside service providers for clinical and laboratory development, facilities-related and other expenses relating
to the design, development, manufacture, testing, and enhancement of our drug candidates and technologies, as well as expenses
related to in-licensing of new product candidates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations—Overview.”
 
EMPLOYEES
 
As of February 23, 2012, we had 29 full- and
part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced
a work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.
  
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.
 
You should carefully consider the following
risks and uncertainties. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially
harmed. These factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
 
Risks Related to Our Business
 
We have a limited operating history and have incurred substantial
operating losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses in the future and may never become profitable.
 
We have a limited operating history. You should
consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies. In addition, we
have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable
future and may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $369.9 million. As we continue
our research and development efforts, we will incur increasing losses. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even
if we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates.
 
We have not yet commercialized any of our drug
candidates and cannot be sure that we will ever be able to do so. Even if we commercialize one or more of our drug candidates,
we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete
our development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory
obligations and successfully commercialize our drug candidates.
 


21
 


 
Risks Associated with Our Product Development Efforts
 
If we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trial
programs, or if such clinical trials take longer to complete than we project, our ability to execute our current business strategy
will be adversely affected.
 
Whether or not and how quickly we complete clinical
trials is dependent in part upon the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment
of patients, and the rate we collect, clean, lock and analyze the clinical trial database. Patient enrollment is a function of
many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria
for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication
we are studying. We are aware that other companies are currently conducting or planning clinical trials that seek to enroll patients
with the same diseases that we are studying. Certain clinical trials are designed to continue until a pre-determined number of
events have occurred in the patients enrolled. Trials such as this are subject to delays stemming from patient withdrawal and from
lower than expected event rates. They may also incur additional costs if enrollment is increased in order to achieve the desired
number of events. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical
trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical
trials in a cost-effective or timely manner or at all. In addition, conducting multi-national studies adds another level of complexity
and risk. We are subject to events affecting countries outside the U.S. 
 
Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical
trials we conduct or unanticipated adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. We
may also opt to change the delivery method, formulation or dosage which could affect efficacy results for the drug candidate. Accordingly,
we may not be able to complete the clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all.
 
In December 2009, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical
trial for KRX-0401 (perifosine) in relapsed / refractory multiple myeloma patients pursuant to a SPA with the FDA. In April 2010,
we initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial for KRX-0401 (perifosine) in patients with refractory advanced colorectal cancer also pursuant
to a SPA with the FDA. In May 2010 and in September 2010, we initiated two Phase 3 clinical trials for Zerenex (ferric citrate)
as a treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with end-stage renal disease pursuant to a SPA with the FDA. Many companies which
have been granted SPAs and/or the right to utilize Fast Track or accelerated approvals have ultimately failed to obtain final approval
to market their drugs. Since we are seeking approvals under SPAs, based on protocol designs negotiated with the FDA, we may be
subject to enhanced scrutiny. Additionally, even if the primary endpoint in a Phase 3 clinical trial is achieved, a SPA does not
guarantee approval. The FDA may raise issues of safety, study conduct, bias, deviation from the protocol, statistical power, patient
completion rates, changes in scientific or medical parameters or internal inconsistencies in the data prior to making its final
decision. The FDA may also seek the guidance of an outside advisory committee prior to making its final decision. Additionally,
the regulatory approval of new therapies could invalidate our SPA, or require us to conduct additional, expensive clinical trials
to obtain regulatory approval.
 
Even though our product candidate, KRX-0401,
is designated for “Fast Track” in the indications of metastatic colorectal cancer and relapsed / refractory multiple
myeloma, we cannot assure you that we will receive “priority review” status. Even with “Fast Track” or
“priority review” status, such designations do not necessarily mean a faster development process or regulatory review
process or necessarily confer any advantage with respect to approval compared to conventional FDA procedures.
 
In May 2011, we announced positive Scientific
Advice from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for the development of Zerenex for the management and control of serum phosphorus
in ESRD patients undergoing dialysis, and in pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease, or CKD, patients. The Scientific Advice from
the EMA indicates that our current Phase 3 program in the U.S., if successful, in conjunction with safety data generated from other
clinical studies with Zerenex, is considered sufficient to support a European marketing authorization application, or MAA, to the
EMA for the indication in ESRD patients on dialysis. As a result, we believe that we will not need to conduct any additional clinical
trials to assess the safety or efficacy of Zerenex in order to obtain European approval in the dialysis setting. The Scientific
Advice also provided us with a regulatory path forward in the pre-dialysis CKD setting in Europe. Scientific Advice is legally
non-binding and is based on the current scientific knowledge, which may be subject to future changes. Many companies which have
been provided with Scientific Advice by the EMA have ultimately failed to obtain approval of an MAA for their drugs. Additionally,
even if the primary endpoint in a Phase 3 clinical trial is achieved, the Scientific Advice does not guarantee approval. The EMA
may raise issues of safety, study conduct, bias, deviation from the protocol, statistical power, patient completion rates, changes
in scientific or medical parameters or internal inconsistencies in the data prior to making its final decision.
 


22
 


 
Additionally, we have never filed a NDA or similar
application for approval in the U.S., or in any country, which may result in a delay in, or the rejection of, our filing of an
NDA or similar application. We are currently compiling data from all historical KRX-0401 clinical studies, which for some studies
date back over 10 years, as well as data relating to non-clinical studies and Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls, or CMC. We
cannot guarantee that we can successfully compile such data to the satisfaction of the FDA, which may result in a delay in, or
the rejection of, our filing of an NDA or similar application for KRX-0401. In addition, there are several obligations outside
of our ongoing Phase 3 studies for KRX-0401 which we believe are required by the FDA for our NDA filing, including, but not limited
to, our ongoing food effect study with a QTc component, and, potentially, additional studies, which we may never be able to complete
to the satisfaction of the FDA. Moreover, when the data that we are currently compiling are submitted to the FDA, the FDA could
request more information and possibly additional studies, in response to the submitted data, and this could potentially result
in a substantial delay in approval.
 
During the drug development process, regulatory
agencies will typically ask questions of drug sponsors. While we endeavor to answer all such questions in a timely fashion, or
in the NDA filing, some questions may remain unanswered by the time we file our NDA, or may be difficult or impossible to answer
to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities. Unless the FDA, or similar regulatory authority in other countries, opts not
to pursue these questions, submission of a NDA may be delayed or rejected.
 
Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive
and uncertain processes. If our drug candidates do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize
our drug candidates.
 
We have not received, and may never receive,
regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates. We will need to conduct significant additional research
and human testing before we can apply for product approval with the FDA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. Pre-clinical
testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically
depends on the nature, complexity and novelty of the product. It requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained
from pre-clinical and clinical tests can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.
The FDA, or regulatory authority of another country as applicable, may pose additional questions or request further clinical substantiation.
It may take us many years to complete the testing of our drug candidates and failure can occur at any stage of this process. Negative
or inconclusive results or medical events during a pre-clinical or clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate our development
efforts. Furthermore, interim results of preclinical or clinical studies do not necessarily predict their final results, and acceptable
results in early studies might not be obtained in later studies.
 
Safety signals detected during clinical studies
and pre-clinical animal studies, such as the gastrointestinal bleeding and liver toxicities that have been seen in some high-dose,
ferric citrate canine studies, may require us to perform additional safety studies or analyses, which could delay the development
of the drug or lead to a decision to discontinue development of the drug. We have submitted to the FDA data from our short-term
and long-term rat and canine pre-clinical studies for Zerenex. While the FDA has reviewed the data from these studies and has permitted
us to continue with our Phase 3 clinical program, we can provide no assurance that the FDA will not raise any safety concerns in
the future from these studies. Drug candidates in the later stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired traits
of safety and efficacy despite positive results in earlier clinical testing. The risk remains that a pivotal program may generate
efficacy data that will be insufficiently persuasive for the approval of the drug, or may raise safety concerns that may prevent
approval of the drug. The risk also remains that a clinical program conducted by one of our partners may raise efficacy or safety
concerns that may prevent approval of the drug. Interpretation of the prior pre-clinical and clinical safety and efficacy data
of our drug candidates may be flawed. There can be no assurance that safety and/or efficacy concerns from the prior data were not
overlooked or misinterpreted, which in subsequent, larger studies might appear and prevent approval of such drug candidates. Top-line
results are based on a preliminary analysis of then available data (both safety and efficacy) and there is the risk that that such
findings and conclusions could change following a more comprehensive review of the data.
 
We may not be able to replicate in our Phase
3 clinical program for Zerenex, the efficacy and safety results for Zerenex observed in the previous Phase 3 and Phase 2 clinical
trials and the Open-Label Extension, or OLE, clinical trial. The positive effects of Zerenex on intravenous iron and erythropoiesis-stimulating
agent, or ESA, use observed in the OLE clinical trial may not be reproducible. Further, any negative effects of the potential
absorption and/or accumulation of ferric iron or citrate would significantly limit the likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval
for Zerenex. In addition, we may not be able to replicate in the Phase 3 trials for KRX-0401, the efficacy and safety results
for KRX-0401 observed in previous clinical trials. In addition, we will need to re-input our safety information on KRX-0401 into
a database compliant with Good Clinical Practice. We can provide no assurance that safety concerns will not subsequently arise. 
 

23
 


  
Independent Data Safety Monitoring Boards, or
DSMBs, are monitoring the safety of our Phase 3 clinical trials for KRX-0401 (perifosine) and Zerenex (ferric citrate) and, in
accordance with the protocols for the clinical trials, will periodically assess whether the Phase 3 trials should continue as planned.
The DSMBs have the authority to recommend placing a trial on clinical hold, temporarily or permanently, or recommend termination
of the clinical trial, based on an evaluation of safety and efficacy. The DSMBs are independent from us and we have no control
or influence on their decisions. In accordance with the protocol, in August 2011, the independent DSMB overseeing our Phase 3 trial
in refractory advanced colorectal cancer completed a pre-specified interim analysis for safety and futility. The independent DSMB
recommended that the Phase 3 study continue to completion, as planned. We can provide no assurance that the Phase 3 study in refractory
advanced colorectal cancer will be successful despite the DSMB recommendation to continue to completion. Additionally, we can provide
no assurance that future meetings of our DSMBs will result in a positive outcome.
 
Clinical trials have a high risk of failure.
A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in
advanced clinical trials, even after achieving what appeared to be promising results in earlier trials. If we experience delays
in the testing or approval process or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than originally planned, our financial
results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidates may be materially impaired. In addition, we have limited experience
in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and abroad. Accordingly, we
may encounter unforeseen problems and delays in the approval process. Although we engage, from time to time, clinical research
organizations with experience in conducting regulatory trials, errors in the conduct, monitoring and/or auditing could potentially
invalidate the results.
 
Because all of our proprietary technologies are licensed to
us by third parties, termination of these license agreements would prevent us from developing our drug candidates.
 
We do not own any of our drug candidates. We
have licensed the rights, patent or otherwise, to our drugs candidates from third parties. These license agreements require us
to meet development milestones and impose development and commercialization due diligence requirements on us. In addition, under
these agreements, we must pay royalties on sales of products resulting from licensed technologies and pay the patent filing, prosecution
and maintenance costs related to the licenses. If we do not meet our obligations in a timely manner or if we otherwise breach the
terms of our license agreements, our licensors could terminate the agreements, and we would lose the rights to our drug candidates.
From time to time, we may have disagreements with our licensors or collaborators, or they and/or we may have disagreements with
the original inventors, regarding the terms of our agreements or ownership of proprietary rights, which could lead to delays in
the research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates, could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which
would be time-consuming and expensive, or could lead to the termination of a license, or force us to negotiate a revised or new
license agreement on terms less favorable than the original.
 
We rely on third parties to manufacture and analytically test
our products. If these third parties do not successfully manufacture and test our products, our business will be harmed.
 
We have limited experience in manufacturing
products for clinical or commercial purposes. We intend to continue, in whole or in part, to use third parties to manufacture and
analytically test our products for use in clinical trials and for future sales. We may not be able to enter into future contract
agreements with these third-parties on terms acceptable to us, if at all.
 
Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize
our product candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our products on a large scale at a competitive
cost and in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and other regulatory requirements, including requirements
from federal and state environmental and safety regulatory agencies. Prior to approval, we will need to complete validation studies
that the FDA must review and approve. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may result in unanticipated technical challenges and
may require additional validation studies that the FDA must review and approve. Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties
in scaling up production, including problems involving raw material supplies, production yields, scaled-up product characteristics,
quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, compliance with FDA and foreign regulations, production costs and
development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Any of these difficulties, if they occur, and are not overcome
to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agency, could lead to significant delays and possibly the termination of the
development program for any of our drug candidates. These risks become more acute as we scale up for commercial quantities, where
a reliable source of raw material supplies becomes critical to commercial success. For example, given the large quantity of materials
required for ferric citrate production, as we approach commercialization for Zerenex we will need to ensure an adequate supply
of starting materials that meet quality, quantity and cost standards. Failure to achieve this level of supply can jeopardize the
successful commercialization of the product. Moreover, issues that may arise in our current transition to a commercial batch manufacturer
for Zerenex can lead to delays in our planned clinical trials and development timelines, and could affect our ability to complete
our clinical trials on a cost-effective or timely basis, if at all.
 


24
 


 
Our third-party manufacturers may not perform
as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required by us to successfully produce and market
our drug candidates. In addition, our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic and unannounced inspections by
the FDA and corresponding foreign governmental agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, as well as other governmental regulations
and corresponding foreign standards. While we periodically audit our contractors for adherence to regulatory requirements, we cannot
assure you that unforeseen changes at these contractors may occur that change their regulatory standing. The same issues apply
to contract analytical services which we use for testing of our products. We will not have control over, other than by contract
and periodic oversight, third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. We are currently developing
analytical tools for KRX-0401 (perifosine) and ferric citrate active pharmaceutical ingredient and drug product testing. Failure
to develop effective analytical tools could result in regulatory or technical delay or could jeopardize our ability to complete
Phase 3 clinical trials and/or obtain FDA approval. Switching or engaging multiple third-party contractors to produce our products
may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers may be limited and the process by which multiple manufacturers make
the drug substance must meet established specifications at each manufacturing facility. It may be difficult for us to find and
engage replacement or multiple manufacturers quickly and on terms acceptable to us, if at all. For Zerenex, we currently rely on
one supplier to source the ferric citrate active pharmaceutical ingredient. The loss of this source of supply would result in significant
additional costs and delays in our development program. Moreover, if we need to change manufacturers after commercialization, the
FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturers in advance, which will involve testing and additional
inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards.
 
If we do not establish or maintain manufacturing, drug development
and marketing arrangements with third parties, we may be unable to commercialize our products.
 
We do not possess all of the capabilities to
fully commercialize our products on our own. From time to time, we may need to contract with third parties to:
 

·manufacture our product candidates;
 

·assist us in developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for and commercializing some of our compounds and technologies;
and
 

·market and distribute our drug products.
 
We can provide no assurance that we will be
able to successfully enter into agreements with such third parties on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable
to successfully contract with third parties for these services when needed, or if existing arrangements for these services are
terminated, whether or not through our actions, or if such third parties do not fully perform under these arrangements, we may
have to delay, scale back or end one or more of our drug development programs or seek to develop or commercialize our products
independently, which could result in delays. Furthermore, such failure could result in the termination of license rights to one
or more of our products. If these manufacturing, development or marketing agreements take the form of a partnership or strategic
alliance, such arrangements may provide our collaborators with significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources
that they will apply to the development and commercialization of our products. Accordingly, to the extent that we rely on third
parties to research, develop or commercialize our products, we are unable to control whether such products will be scientifically
or commercially successful. Additionally, if these third parties fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them
or fail to perform their work in a satisfactory manner, in spite of our efforts to monitor and ensure the quality of such work,
we may face delays in achieving the regulatory milestones required for commercialization of one or more drug candidates.
 
If, in the future, the market conditions for
raising capital deteriorate, we may be forced to rely predominantly or entirely on our ability to contract with third parties for
our manufacturing, drug development and marketing. If we are unable to contract with such third parties, we may be forced to limit
or suspend or terminate the development of some or all of our product candidates.
 
Our reliance on third parties, such as clinical research organizations,
or CROs, may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials if such CROs fail to perform under our agreements
with them.
 
In the course of product development, we engage
CROs to conduct and manage clinical studies and to assist us in guiding our products through the FDA review and approval process.
If the CROs fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform clinical trials in a satisfactory
manner, we may face significant delays in completing our clinical trials, as well as commercialization of one or more drug candidates.
Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials and
the market approval of drug candidates.
 


25
 


 
Other Risks Related to Our Business
 
If we are unable to develop adequate sales, marketing or distribution
capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to commercialize
our products effectively.
 
In the event that one or more of our drug candidates
are approved by the FDA, we may conduct our own sales and marketing effort to support the drugs. We currently have limited experience
in sales, marketing or distribution. To directly market and distribute any products, we must build a sales and marketing organization
with appropriate technical expertise and distribution capabilities. We may attempt to build such a sales and marketing organization
on our own or with the assistance of a contract sales organization. For some market opportunities, we may want or need to enter
into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the commercial
success of our products. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of our own or enter into
such arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or
other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and
some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful.
Additionally, building marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive than we anticipate, requiring us to divert
capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired
levels.
 
From time to time we may consider offers or
hold discussions with companies for partnerships or the acquisition of our company or any of our products. Any accepted offer may
preclude us from commercializing our products effectively.
 
Even if we obtain FDA approval to market our drug products,
if they fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never record meaningful revenues.
 
Even if our products are approved for sale,
they may not be commercially successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of our drug products will depend on a number of factors,
including:
 

·perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, of the safety and efficacy of our product candidates,
including, but not limited to, the perception of the long-term effects of the potential absorption and/or accumulation of ferric
iron or citrate resulting from the use of Zerenex;
 

·the rates of adoption of our products by medical practitioners and the target populations for our products;
 

·the potential advantages that our products offer over existing treatment methods;
 

·the cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products;
 

·the availability of government or third-party payor reimbursement for our products;
 

·the side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products; and
 

·the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts.
 
Because we expect sales of our products, if
approved, to generate substantially all of our revenues in the long-term, the failure of our drugs to find market acceptance would
harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing or other sources of revenue.
 
If our competitors develop and market products that are less
expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated.
 
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research
institutions. In addition, companies that are active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us.
Many of our competitors have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and
greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with
us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are
competitive with ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that could render
our drug products obsolete or noncompetitive. To compete successfully in this industry we must identify novel and unique drugs
or methods of treatment and then complete the development of those drugs as treatments in advance of our competitors.
 


26
 


 
The drugs that we are attempting to develop
will have to compete with existing therapies. For example, KRX-0401 (perifosine), if approved in the U.S. would compete with other
anti-cancer agents, such as mTOR inhibitors. Pfizer Inc., Novartis AG and Ariad Pharmaceuticals are developing mTOR inhibitors
for use in cancer and Pfizer’s mTOR inhibitor, temsirolimus, and Novartis’ mTOR inhibitor, everolimus, have been FDA
approved to treat patients with advanced kidney disease (everolimus is also FDA approved for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and
a specific type of brain tumor). Biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies such as Amgen Inc., Bayer AG, Biogen-Idec, Inc., ImClone
Systems, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company), Merck & Co., Inc., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company), Novartis AG, Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
are developing and, in some cases, marketing drugs to treat various diseases, including cancer, by inhibiting cell-signaling pathways.
In addition, we are aware of a number of small and large companies developing competitive products that target Akt and the PI3K
pathway. Bayer HealthCare, a subgroup of Bayer AG, recently announced positive results from its Phase 3 trial evaluating its investigational
compound, regorafenib (BAY 73-4506), for the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer whose disease has progressed
after approved standard therapies. If approved by the FDA, regorafenib could have a material effect on the market opportunity of
KRX-0401 (perifosine). Zerenex, if approved in the U.S., would compete with other FDA approved phosphate binders such as Renagel®
(sevelamer hydrochloride) and Renvela® (sevelamer carbonate), both marketed by Genzyme Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary
of Sanofi-Aventis), PhosLo® (calcium acetate), marketed by Fresenius Medical Care, and Fosrenol® (lanthanum
carbonate), marketed by Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc, as well as over-the-counter calcium carbonate products such as TUMS®
and metal-based options such as aluminum and magnesium. A generic formulation of PhosLo® manufactured by Roxane Laboratories,
Inc. was launched in the U.S. in October 2008. In addition, upon the expiration of their core patents (expected in the U.S. in
2014), generic formulations of Renagel® and Renvela® may be launched, which could have a material
effect on the pricing of phosphate binders.
 
Our commercial opportunities may be reduced
or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products.
Other companies have drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are
also seeking to discover and develop drug products. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development
than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our products
may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors.
 
If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and
retain additional personnel, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be harmed.
 
As of February 23, 2012, we had 29 full and
part-time employees. To successfully develop our drug candidates, we must be able to attract and retain highly skilled personnel.
Our limited resources may hinder our efforts to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. In addition, if we lose the services
of our current personnel, in particular, Ron Bentsur, our Chief Executive Officer, our ability to continue to execute on our business
plan could be materially impaired. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. Bentsur, such agreement does not prevent him
from terminating his employment with us.
 
Any acquisitions we make may require a significant amount
of our available cash and may not be scientifically or commercially successful.
 
As part of our business strategy, we may effect
acquisitions to obtain additional businesses, products, technologies, capabilities and personnel. If we make one or more significant
acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash.
 
Acquisitions involve a number of operational
risks, including:
 

·difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired business;
 

·our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business;
 

·our inability to maintain the acquired company's relationship with key third parties, such as alliance partners;
 

·exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition;
 


·the diversion of our management's attention from our core business; and
 

·the potential impairment of goodwill and write-off of in-process research and development costs, adversely affecting our reported
results of operations.
 


27
 


    
The status of reimbursement from third-party payors for newly
approved health care drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate reimbursement could limit our ability to generate revenue.
 
Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical
products may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from:
 

·government and health administration authorities;
 

·private health insurers;
 

·managed care programs; and
 

·other third-party payors.
 
Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement
status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical
products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting
both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved
products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. In 2003, Congress passed the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which for the first time established prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries,
under Medicare Part D. Under this program, beneficiaries purchase insurance coverage from private insurance companies to cover
the cost of their prescription drugs. However, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for our products.
If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, their market
acceptance may be reduced.
 
Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business.
 
The business prospects and financial condition
of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or
reduce the costs of health care. In the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue
to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, such as proposals relating to
the pricing of healthcare products and services in the U.S. or internationally, the reimportation of drugs into the U.S. from other
countries (where they are then sold at a lower price), and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or
other third party payors. For example, drug manufacturers are required to have a national rebate agreement with the Department
of Health and Human Services, or HHS, in order to obtain state Medicaid coverage, which requires manufacturers to pay a rebate
on drugs dispensed to Medicaid patients. On January 27, 2012, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued a
proposed regulation covering the calculation of Average Manufacturer Price, or AMP, which is the key variable in the calculation
of these rebates.
 
Furthermore, in the U.S., health care reform
legislation titled the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law on March 23, 2010. This comprehensive legislation
will affect the terms of public and private health insurance and have a substantial impact on the pharmaceutical industry. For
example, the new law will impose an annual fee on manufacturers of branded prescription pharmaceuticals that will impact our products.
Regulations to implement this and other provisions related to the research, marketing and sale of prescription pharmaceutical products
could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses.
Government-financed comparative efficacy research could also result in new practice guidelines, labeling or reimbursement policies
that discourages use of our products.
 
For example, in July 2010, CMS released its
final rule to implement a bundled prospective payment system for end-stage renal disease facilities as required by the Medicare
Improvements for Patients and Providers Act, or MIPPA. The final rule delayed the inclusion of oral medications without IV equivalents,
such as phosphate binders, in the bundle until January 1, 2014. If phosphate binders are included in the bundle beginning in 2014,
separate Medicare reimbursement will no longer be available for phosphate binders, as it is today under Medicare Part D. While
it is too early to project the impact bundling may have on the phosphate binder industry, the impact could potentially cause dramatic
price reductions for phosphate binders.
 


28
 


 
On September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration
Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the authority to require post-marketing
studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation
strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA's exercise of this authority may result in delays or increased costs during the period
of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, which may also increase costs related to complying
with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and increase potential FDA restrictions on the sale or distribution of approved
products.
 
We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain
adequate insurance.
 
The use of our drug candidates in clinical trials,
and the future sale of any approved drug candidates and new technologies, exposes us to liability claims. Although we are not aware
of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product
liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to cease clinical trials of our drug candidates or limit
commercialization of any approved products.
 
We intend to expand our insurance coverage to
include the commercial sale of any approved products if marketing approval is obtained; however, insurance coverage is becoming
increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We also may not be able to obtain
additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual
outcome, product liability claims may result in:
 

·decreased demand for a product;
 

·injury to our reputation;
 

·our inability to continue to develop a drug candidate;
 

·withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and
 

·loss of revenues.
 
Consequently, a product liability claim or product recall may result
in losses that could be material.
 
In connection with the clinical trial management and site
recruitment services we previously provided, we may be exposed to liability that could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.
 
Online Collaborative Oncology Group, Inc., or
OCOG, a subsidiary we acquired through our acquisition of ACCESS Oncology, Inc. in 2004, previously provided clinical trial management
and site recruitment services to us as well as other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. OCOG entered into its last third-party
service contract in 2005 and its business was discontinued as of December 2011. In conducting the activities of OCOG, any failure
on our part to comply with applicable governmental regulations or contractual obligations could expose us to liability to our clients
and could have a material adverse effect on us. We also could be held liable for errors or omissions in connection with the services
we performed. In addition, the wrongful or erroneous delivery of health care information or services may expose us to liability.
If we were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any such claims, the losses could be material.
 
Our corporate compliance efforts cannot guarantee that we
are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations.
 
The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales,
and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state
and other authorities within the U.S. and numerous entities outside of the U.S. We are a relatively small company with 29 full
and part-time employees as of February 23, 2012. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have
a product candidate in clinical development, and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. While we
believe that our corporate compliance program is sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable regulations, we cannot assure
you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations
we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve
a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant
fines, or other sanctions or litigation.
 


29
 


 
Risks Related to Our Financial Condition
 
Our cash, cash equivalents and investment securities may not
be adequate to finance our operating cash requirements for the length of time that we have estimated.
 
Depending on the outcome of our Phase 3 study
for KRX-0401 in refractory advanced colorectal cancer, our operating cash requirements may vary dramatically. In the event of a
negative outcome, we currently anticipate that our cash, cash equivalents and investment securities as of December 31, 2011, exclusive
of our anticipated milestone payments to be received, are sufficient to fund our anticipated operating cash requirements for approximately
18 to 20 months from December 31, 2011. Our forecast of the period of time through which our cash, cash equivalents and investment
securities will be adequate to support our current operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties.
The actual amount of funds we will need to operate is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors
include, but are not limited to, the following:
 

·the timing, design and conduct of, and results from, clinical trials for our drug candidates;
 

·the timing of expenses associated with manufacturing and product development of the proprietary drug candidates within our
portfolio and those that may be in-licensed, partnered or acquired;
 

·the timing of the in-licensing, partnering and acquisition of new product opportunities;
 

·the progress of the development efforts of parties with whom we have entered, or may enter, into research and development agreements;
 

·our ability to achieve our milestones under our licensing arrangements; and
 

·the costs involved in prosecuting and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights.
 
If our cash is insufficient to meet future operating
requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us or at
all, we may be required to cease or reduce our operating activities or sell or license to third parties some or all of our intellectual
property. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock, the ownership interests of our stockholders
will be diluted. If we need to raise additional funds through the sale or license of our intellectual property, we may be unable
to do so on terms favorable to us, if at all.
 
Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Third-Party
Contracts
 
If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property,
third parties may be able to use our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market.
 
Our commercial success will depend in part on
our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection on our drug products and technologies and
successfully defend these patents against third-party challenges. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed
in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, the patents we use may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from
practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative
drug products or technologies or design around our patented drug products and technologies. The patents we use may be challenged
or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage.
 
We rely on trade secrets to protect our intellectual
property where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we
require our employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, this may not be sufficient to adequately
protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, we share ownership and publication rights to data relating
to some of our drug products and technologies with our research collaborators and scientific advisors. If we cannot maintain the
confidentiality of this information, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our trade secrets or other proprietary
information will be at risk.
  

30
 


 
The intellectual property that we own or have licensed relating
to our product candidates is limited, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market and adversely affect the
value of our product candidates. 
 
The patent rights that we own or have licensed
relating to our product candidates are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against
us if we obtain regulatory approval to market these product candidates. In particular:
 

·Our composition of matter patent covering KRX-0401 (perifosine) expires in the second half of 2013 and we cannot assure you
that we can obtain an extension to the second half of 2018 (the maximum term of extension under the patent term restoration program).
Our composition of matter patent covering Zerenex expires in the second half of 2017 and we cannot assure you that we can obtain
an extension to 2022 (the maximum term of extension under the patent term restoration program). Composition of matter patents can
provide protection for pharmaceutical products to the extent that the specifically covered compositions are important. Upon expiration
of our composition of matter patents for KRX-0401 and Zerenex, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer
products with the same composition as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any other patents that we may hold,
such as method of use patents.
 

·Our method of use patents only protect the products when used or sold for the specified method. However, this type of patent
does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product that is labeled for an indication
that is outside of our patented method, or for which there is a substantial use in commerce outside our patented method.
 

·Our pending patent applications may not issue as patents and may not issue in all countries in which we develop, manufacture
or potentially sell our products or in countries where others develop, manufacture and potentially sell products using our technologies. Moreover,
our pending patent applications, if issued as patents, may not provide additional protection for our products.
 

·Because clinical trials for KRX-0401 and Zerenex are ongoing, and because any potential date for regulatory approval is currently
unknown, it is possible that the life of these patents following regulatory approval will be minimal, even if the above-discussed
extensions are obtained.
 
Proof of direct infringement by a competitor
for method of use patents can prove difficult because the competitors making and marketing a product typically do not engage in
the patented use. Additionally, proof that a competitor contributes to or induces infringement of a patented method of use by another
can also prove difficult because an off-label use of a product could prohibit a finding of contributory infringement and inducement
of infringement requires proof of intent by the competitor.
 
Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive
identical product for indications other than the one for which the product has been approved, or off-label indications, that are
covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may directly infringe or contribute to or induce infringement
of method of use patents, such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute.
 
In addition, the limited patent protection described
above may adversely affect the value of our product candidates and may inhibit our ability to obtain a corporate partner at terms
acceptable to us, if at all.
 
In addition to patent protection, we may utilize
orphan drug regulations or other provisions of the FDCA to provide market exclusivity for certain of our drug candidates. Orphan
drug regulations provide incentives to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and manufacture drugs for the treatment
of rare diseases, currently defined as diseases that exist in fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S., or, diseases that affect
more than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. but that the sponsor does not realistically anticipate will generate a net profit. Under
these provisions, a manufacturer of a designated orphan drug can seek tax benefits, and the holder of the first FDA approval of
a designated orphan product will be granted a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity for such FDA-approved orphan product.
In September 2009, we announced that KRX-0401 (perifosine) has received Orphan-Drug designation from the FDA for the treatment
of multiple myeloma, and in July 2010, we announced that KRX-0401 has received Orphan-Drug designation from the FDA for the treatment
of neuroblastoma. We believe that KRX-0401 may be eligible for additional orphan-drug designations; however, we cannot assure you
that KRX-0401, or any other drug candidates we may acquire or in-license, will obtain such orphan-drug designations. Additionally,
upon FDA approval, we believe that perifosine would qualify as a New Chemical Entity, which provides for five years of exclusivity
following approval, however; we cannot assure you that perifosine will qualify and gain the additional five-year exclusivity period.
 


31
 


 
Litigation or third-party claims could require us to spend
substantial time and money defending such claims and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products.
 
We may be forced to initiate litigation to enforce
our contractual and intellectual property rights, or we may be sued by third parties asserting claims based on contract, tort or
intellectual property infringement. In addition, third parties may have or may obtain patents in the future and claim that our
drug products or technologies infringe their patents. If we are required to defend against suits brought by third parties, or if
we sue third parties to protect our rights, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs, and our management's attention
may be diverted from operating our business. In addition, any legal action against our licensors or us that seeks damages or an
injunction of our commercial activities relating to our drug products or technologies could subject us to monetary liability and
require our licensors or us to obtain a license to continue to use our drug products or technologies. We cannot predict whether
our licensors or we would prevail in any of these types of actions or that any required license would be made available on commercially
acceptable terms, if at all.
 
Risks Related to Our Common Stock
 
Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could
depress the market for our common stock.
 
Sales of a substantial number of shares of our
common stock, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to
decline or could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the sale of equity in the future.
 
We currently have two shelf registration statements
on Form S-3, filed and declared effective by the SEC, providing for the offering of up to approximately $79 million of common stock
and warrants in the aggregate.
 

·On August 28, 2009, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-161607) and declared effective
by the SEC on September 23, 2009. The registration statement provided for the offering of up to $40 million of our common stock
and warrants. Subsequent to the registered direct offering completed on September 30, 2009, there remains approximately $12 million
of our common stock and warrants available for sale under the shelf registration statement.
 

·On January 3, 2011, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-171517) that was declared
effective by the SEC on January 28, 2011, providing for the offering of up to $100 million of our common stock and warrants to
purchase our common stock. Subsequent to the registered offering in May 2011, there remains approximately $67 million of our common
stock and warrants available for sale under the shelf registration statement.
 
Future sales pursuant to these registration
statements could depress the market for our common stock.
 
If we make one or more significant acquisitions
in which the consideration includes stock or other securities, our stockholders’ holdings may be significantly diluted. In
addition, stockholders’ holdings may also be diluted if we enter into arrangements with third parties permitting us to issue
shares of common stock in lieu of certain cash payments upon the achievement of milestones.
 
Our stockholders would also experience dilution
if we are required to issue up to 2,872,422 shares of our common stock to former stockholders of ACCESS Oncology, Inc. upon the
achievement of certain development and sales milestones related to KRX-0401.
 
Our stock price can be volatile, which increases the risk
of litigation, and may result in a significant decline in the value of your investment.
 
The trading price of our common stock is likely
to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control.
These factors include:
 

·developments concerning our drug candidates, including the safety and efficacy results from clinical trials, such as the results
from the Phase 3 study for KRX-0401 (perifosine) in advanced refractory colorectal cancer expected to be available in the first
half of 2012;
 

·announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors;
 

·introductions or announcements of new products by us or our competitors;
 

·announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;
 

·changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;
  


·actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;
 

·expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements;
 

·conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries;
 

·changes in the market valuations of similar companies;
 

·negative comments and sentiment in the media; and
 

·additions or departures of key personnel.
 

32
 


    
In addition, equity markets in general, and
the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations
that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. These broad
market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our development and operating
performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action
litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial
costs to defend such claims and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business.
 
Certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents
and Delaware law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. This could limit the price investors might be willing to
pay in the future for our common stock.
 
Provisions in our amended and restated certificate
of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging
a third party from attempting to acquire, or control us. These factors could limit the price that certain investors might be willing
to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue preferred
stock without the approval of our stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets
available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting
rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common
stock. Our amended and restated bylaws eliminate the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could
make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Any of these provisions could also have the effect
of delaying or preventing a change in control.
  
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.
 
None.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. 
 
Our corporate and executive office is located
in New York, New York. Our New York facility consists of approximately 11,700 square feet of leased space at 750 Lexington Avenue,
New York, New York 10022, with a lease term through September 30, 2013. We are a party to an office sharing agreement with a third-party
for a portion of our leased space through the term of our lease.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
We, and our subsidiaries, are not a party to,
and our property is not the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings, other than as noted below.
 
In October 2009, we filed a statement of claim
with the Financial Institution Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, to commence an arbitration proceeding against an SEC registered
broker-dealer. In this arbitration proceeding, we seek damages arising from that broker-dealer’s recommendations and
purchases of auction rate securities for our cash management account. The claim will be determined by a panel of three FINRA
arbitrators. In January 2010, the broker-dealer filed an answer to the statement of claim and denied liability. The hearing
concerning our claims against the broker-dealer commenced in October 2011, and is scheduled to be completed in March 2012.
 


33
 


 
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.
 
Not applicable
 
PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.
 
Market Information
 
Our common stock is listed on the
NASDAQ Capital Market and trades under the symbol “KERX.”
 
The following table sets forth the high and
low closing sale prices of our common stock for the periods indicated.
 


Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011 
High  
Low 

Fourth Quarter 
$3.37  
$2.38 

Third Quarter 
$4.94  
$2.99 

Second Quarter 
$5.42  
$4.28 

First Quarter 
$5.19  
$3.81 

 


Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2010 
High  
Low 

Fourth Quarter 
$5.47  
$4.58 

Third Quarter 
$4.87  
$3.39 

Second Quarter 
$6.51  
$2.74 

First Quarter 
$3.00  
$2.27 


 
Holders
 
The number of record holders of our common stock
as of February 23, 2012 was 55.
 
Dividends
 
We have never declared or paid any cash dividends
on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay
dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors.
 
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
Plans
 
The following table provides information as
of December 31, 2011, regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, consisting of the 1999
Stock Option Plan, as amended, the 2000 Stock Option Plan, as amended, the 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 2007 Incentive Plan
and the 2009 CEO Incentive Plan.
 


Equity Compensation Plan Information

Plan Category 
Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options  
Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options  
Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) 

  
(a)  
(b)  
(c) 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
 2,917,000  
$7.64  
 3,351,445 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 
 600,000  
 0.35  
 – 

Total 
 3,517,000  
$6.40  
 3,351,445 

 

For information
about all of our equity compensation plans, see Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.

 

34
 


   
COMMON STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH
 
The following graph compares the cumulative
total stockholder return on our common stock for the period from December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2011, with the cumulative
total return over such period on (i) the U.S. Index of The NASDAQ Stock Market and (ii) the Biotechnology
Index of The NASDAQ Stock Market. The graph assumes an investment of $100 on December 31, 2006,
in our common stock (at the closing market price) and in each of the indices listed above, and assumes the reinvestment of all
dividends. Measurement points are December 31 of each year.
 

 

35
 



 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
The following Statement of Operations Data for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, and Balance Sheet Data as of December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008
and 2007, as set forth below are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. This financial data should be read
in conjunction with “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
 


  
Years ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

  
(in thousands, except per share data) 

Statement of Operations Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Revenue: 
    
    
    
    
   

License revenue 
$5,000  
$–  
$21,616  
$1,180  
$204 

Other revenue 
 –  
 –  
 3,575  
 –  
 727 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total revenue 
 5,000  
 –  
 25,191  
 1,180  
 931 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Operating expenses: 
    
    
    
    
   

Research and development: 
    
    
    
    
   

Non-cash compensation 
 803  
 1,236  
 1,233  
 (67) 
 3,574 

Other research and development 
 26,209  
 13,728  
 7,372  
 38,075  
 74,883 

Total research and development 
 27,012  
 14,964  
 8,605  
 38,008  
 78,457 

  
    
    
    
    
   

General and administrative: 
    
    
    
    
   

Non-cash compensation 
 1,289  
 1,237  
 1,867  
 6,815  
 7,086 

Other general and administrative 
 5,448  
 5,014  
 4,904  
 7,474  
 9,141 

Total general and administrative 
 6,737  
 6,251  
 6,771  
 14,289  
 16,227 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total operating expenses 
 33,749  
 21,215  
 15,376  
 52,297  
 94,684 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Operating (loss) income 
 (28,749) 
 (21,215) 
 9,815  
 (51,117) 
 (93,753)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Other income (expense): 
    
    
    
    
   

Interest and other income (expense), net 
 380  
 764  
 667  
 (1,665) 
 4,555 

Income taxes 
 –  
 –  
 –  
 –  
 (36)

  
    
    
    
    
   

(Loss) income from continuing operations 
 (28,369) 
 (20,451) 
 10,482  
 (52,782) 
 (89,234)

Gain (loss) from discontinued operations 
 246  
 120  
 3  
 (99) 
 (828)

Net (loss) income 
$(28,123) 
$(20,331) 
$10,485  
$(52,881) 
$(90,062)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Basic and diluted (loss) income per common share: 
    
    
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21  
$(1.18) 
$(2.05)

Discontinued operations 
 –* 
 –* 
 –* 
            (–)* 
 (0.02)

Basic and diluted (loss) income per common share 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21  
$(1.18) 
$(2.07)

 
* Amount less than one cent per share.
 



  
As of December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

  
(in thousands) 

Balance Sheet Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Cash, cash equivalents, interest receivable and short-term investment securities 
$39,470  
$28,512  
$34,000  
$15,467  
$62,386 

Long-term investment securities 
 –  
 –  
 1,914  
 7,185  
 2,296 

  
$39,470  
$28,512  
$35,914  
$22,652  
$64,682 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Working capital 
 30,237  
 22,520  
 29,489  
 9,282  
 42,319 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total assets 
 43,488  
 32,114  
 40,818  
 26,634  
 81,061 

Deferred revenue, net of current portion 
 –  
 –  
 –  
 17,308  
 11,022 

Other liabilities 
 35  
 35  
 50  
 118  
 202 

Contingent equity rights 
 2,639  
 2,639  
 2,639  
 4,004  
 4,004 

Total stockholders’ equity (deficiency) 
 31,047  
 23,248  
 32,097  
 (1,489) 
 44,422 


  


36
 


 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 
 
The
following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the
future. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant
risks and uncertainties, and our results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking statements
as a result of many known or unknown factors, including, but not limited to, those factors discussed in “Item 1A.
Risk Factors.” See also the “Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” set forth at the
beginning of this report. 
 
You should read the following discussion and
analysis in conjunction with “Item 6. Selected Financial Data,” “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data,” and our consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this report.
 
Overview
 
We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on
the acquisition, development and commercialization of medically important pharmaceutical products for the treatment of cancer and
renal disease. We are developing KRX-0401 (perifosine), a novel, potentially first-in-class, oral anti-cancer agent that inhibits
Akt activation in the PI3K pathway, and also affects a number of other key signal transduction pathways, including the JNK pathway,
all of which are pathways associated with programmed cell death, growth, differentiation and survival. KRX-0401 is currently in
Phase 3 clinical development for both refractory advanced colorectal cancer and relapsed / refractory multiple myeloma, and in
Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical development for several other tumor types. Each of the KRX-0401 Phase 3 programs is being conducted
under SPA agreements with the FDA and with Fast-Track Designation.
 
We are also developing Zerenex™ (ferric
citrate), an oral, ferric iron-based compound that has the capacity to bind to phosphate in the gastrointestinal tract and form
non-absorbable complexes. Zerenex is currently in Phase 3 clinical development in the United States, under an SPA agreement, as
a treatment for hyperphosphatemia (elevated phosphate levels) in patients with ESRD on dialysis. In April 2011, our Japanese partner
for Zerenex (ferric citrate), JT and Torii, commenced its Phase 3 clinical program for ferric citrate in Japan. Under the terms
of the license agreement with JT and Torii, we received a non-refundable milestone payment of $5.0 million in April 2011 from JT
and Torii for the achievement of the Phase 3 commencement milestone.
 
We also engage in business development activities
that include seeking strategic relationships for our product candidates, as well as evaluating compounds and companies for in-licensing
or acquisition. To date, we have not received approval for the sale of any of our drug candidates in any market and, therefore,
have not generated any product sales from our drug candidates. We have generated, and expect to continue to generate, revenue from
the licensing of rights to Zerenex in Japan to JT and Torii.
 
We have devoted substantially all of our efforts
to the identification, in-licensing, development and partnering of drug candidates. We have incurred negative cash flow from operations
each year since our inception. We anticipate incurring negative cash flows from operating activities for the foreseeable future.
We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, substantial amounts in connection with implementing our business strategy, including
our product development efforts, our clinical trials, partnership and licensing activities.
 
Our license revenues currently consist of license
fees and milestone payments arising from our agreement with JT and Torii. We recognize license revenue in accordance with the revenue
recognition guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification.
We analyze each element of our licensing agreement to determine the appropriate revenue recognition. The terms of the license agreement
may include payment to us of non-refundable up-front license fees, milestone payments if specified objectives are achieved, and/or
royalties on product sales. We recognize revenue from upfront payments over the period of significant involvement under the related
agreements unless the fee is in exchange for products delivered or services rendered that represent the culmination of a separate
earnings process and no further performance obligation exists under the contract. We recognize milestone payments as revenue upon
the achievement of specified milestones only if (1) the milestone payment is non-refundable, (2) substantive effort is involved
in achieving the milestone, (3) the amount of the milestone is reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated
with achievement of the milestone, and (4) the milestone is at risk for both parties. If any of these conditions are not met, we
defer the milestone payment and recognize it as revenue over the estimated period of performance under the contract.
 


37
 


 
Our other revenues consist of fees and payments
arising from technology transfer, termination and settlement agreements related to our prior license agreements.
 
We have not earned any revenues from the commercial
sale of any of our drug candidates.
 
Our research and development
expenses consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs, fees paid to consultants and outside service providers for
clinical and laboratory development, facilities-related and other expenses relating to the design, development, manufacture, testing,
and enhancement of our drug candidates and technologies, as well as expenses related to in-licensing of new product candidates.
We expense our research and development costs as they are incurred. Other research and development expenses, which exclude non-cash
compensation and discontinued operations, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $26,209,000, $13,728,000 and
$7,372,000, respectively.
  
The following table sets
forth the other research and development expenses per project, for the periods presented.
 



  
Years ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

KRX-0401 (perifosine) 
$12,119,000  
$5,952,000  
$1,930,000 

Zerenex (ferric citrate) 
 13,007,000  
 6,771,000  
 3,647,000 

Other 
 1,102,000  
 1,112,000  
 679,000 

Terminated programs 
 (19,000) 
 (107,000) 
 1,116,000 

Total 
$26,209,000  
$13,728,000  
$7,372,000 


 
Amounts in the above table exclude discontinued
operations.
 
Our general and administrative expenses consist
primarily of salaries and related expenses for executive, finance and other administrative personnel, recruitment expenses, professional
fees and other corporate expenses, including investor relations, legal activities and facilities-related expenses.
 
Our results of operations include non-cash compensation
expense as a result of the grants of stock options and restricted stock. Compensation expense for awards of options and restricted
stock granted to employees and directors represents the fair value of the award recorded over the respective vesting periods of
the individual awards. The expense is included in the respective categories of expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
We expect to continue to incur significant non-cash compensation expenses.
 
For awards of options and restricted stock to
consultants and other third-parties, compensation expense is determined at the “measurement date.” The expense is recognized
over the vesting period of the award. Until the measurement date is reached, the total amount of compensation expense remains uncertain.
We record compensation expense based on the fair value of the award at the reporting date. The awards to consultants and other
third-parties are then revalued, or the total compensation is recalculated based on the then current fair value, at each subsequent
reporting date. This results in a change to the amount previously recorded in respect of the equity award grant, and additional
expense or a reversal of expense may be recorded in subsequent periods based on changes in the assumptions used to calculate fair
value, such as changes in market price, until the measurement date is reached and the compensation expense is finalized.
 
In addition, certain options and restricted
stock issued to employees, consultants and other third-parties vest upon the achievement of certain milestones, therefore the total
expense is uncertain until the milestone is met.
 
Our ongoing clinical trials are lengthy and
expensive. Even if these trials show that our drug candidates are effective in treating certain diseases or conditions, there is
no guarantee that we will be able to record commercial sales of any of our drug candidates in the near future. In addition, we
expect losses to continue as we continue to fund in-licensing and development of new drug candidates. As we continue our development
efforts, we may enter into additional third-party collaborative agreements and may incur additional expenses, such as licensing
fees and milestone payments. In addition, we may need to establish the commercial infrastructure required to manufacture, market
and sell our drug candidates following approval, if any, by the FDA or regulatory authorities of other countries, which would result
in us incurring additional expenses. As a result, our quarterly results may fluctuate and a quarter-by-quarter comparison of our
operating results may not be a meaningful indication of our future performance.
 


38
 


 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
License Revenue. License revenue for
the year ended December 31, 2011 was $5,000,000 due to the recognition of a non-refundable milestone payment received in April
2011 from JT and Torii for their commencement of a Phase 3 clinical program in Japan. There was no license revenue for the year
ended December 31, 2010. We expect to recognize additional license revenue in future periods from our sublicense agreement with
JT and Torii, provided their Phase 3 program is successful.
 
Non-Cash Compensation Expense (Research and
Development). Non-cash compensation expense (research and development) related to equity incentive grants decreased by $433,000
to $803,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $1,236,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease
in non-cash compensation expense in the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, was primarily
related to the recording of the fair value of equity awards granted to research and development personnel, which are expensed over
the vesting periods of the individual awards.
 
Other Research and Development Expenses.
Other research and development expenses increased by $12,481,000 to $26,209,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared
to $13,728,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in other research and development expenses was due primarily
to a $6,167,000 increase in research and development expenses related to our two KRX-0401 Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as to
a $6,236,000 increase in research and development expenses related to our Zerenex Phase 3 clinical program. We expect our other
research and development costs to decrease modestly in 2012 due to the completion of our Phase 3 clinical programs for KRX-0401
and Zerenex, partially offset by expenses associated with our potential filings of new drug applications.
 
Non-Cash Compensation Expense (General and
Administrative). Non-cash compensation expense (general and administrative) related to equity incentive grants increased by
$52,000 to $1,289,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $1,237,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. The
decrease in non-cash compensation expense in the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010,
was primarily related to the recording of the fair value of equity awards granted to general and administrative personnel and directors,
which are expensed over the vesting periods of the individual awards.
 
Other General and Administrative Expenses.
Other general and administrative expenses increased by $434,000 to $5,448,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared
to $5,014,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase was due primarily to an increase in miscellaneous general and
administrative expenses, including market research initiatives, partially offset by a decrease in legal expenses. Depending on
the outcome of our Phase 3 study for KRX-0401 in refractory advanced colorectal cancer, our other general and administrative costs
could vary dramatically over the next year. In the event of a negative outcome, we would expect our other general and administrative
costs to remain at a comparable level to 2011. With a positive outcome, our other general and administrative costs may increase
in order to scale-up our operations and infrastructure to prepare to commercialize KRX-0401, subject to our business development
activities.
 
Interest and Other Income, Net. Interest
and other income, net, decreased by $384,000 to $380,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $764,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease was primarily due to a one-time $489,000 grant, received in November 2010, under The
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 for our drug candidates, KRX-0401 (perifosine) and Zerenex (ferric citrate).
 
Gain from Discontinued Operations. For
the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a $246,000 reversal of previously recorded estimated liabilities associated with
the discontinued operations of our services business. See Note 8 – Discontinued Operations.
 
Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009
 
License Revenue. There was no license
revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to license revenue of $21,616,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009.
The decrease in license revenue was due primarily to the recognition in 2009 of all remaining deferred revenue related to the JT
and Torii sublicense agreement originally signed in September 2007, and amended and restated in June 2009, and due to the recognition
in the year ended December 31, 2009, of a $3.0 million milestone payment received from JT and Torii due to their initiation in
2009 of a Phase 2 clinical study of Zerenex in Japan.
 


39
 


 
Other Revenue. There was no other revenue
for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to other revenue of $3,575,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The other
revenue in the year ended December 31, 2009, was due to the $3,500,000 settlement of our dispute with Alfa Wassermann S.p.A., in
July 2009, over issues arising from the terminated license agreement for Sulonex (sulodexide) and was also related to a $75,000
payment earned in June 2009 from a December 2008 license termination agreement for KRX-0501. Payments associated with these license
terminations are recognized as earned since we have no on-going responsibilities under the terminated license agreement or the
termination agreement.
 
Non-Cash Compensation Expense (Research and
Development). Non-cash compensation expense (research and development) related to equity incentive grants increased by $3,000
to $1,236,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $1,233,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009. Non-cash compensation
expense is related to grants of equity awards to research and development personnel and the recording of the related fair value
of the awards over the respective vesting periods of the individual awards.
 
Other Research and Development Expenses.
Other research and development expenses increased by $6,356,000 to $13,728,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared
to $7,372,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in other research and development expenses was due primarily to
a $4,022,000 increase in research and development expenses related to KRX-0401 due to the two ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials,
as well as to a $3,123,000 increase in research and development expenses related to the Zerenex Phase 3 clinical program. The year
ended December 31, 2009, included a one-time $1,460,000 accrual for a terminated early-stage pipeline product candidate.
 
Non-Cash Compensation Expense (General and
Administrative). Non-cash compensation expense (general and administrative) related to equity incentive grants decreased by
$630,000 to $1,237,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $1,867,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The
decrease in non-cash compensation expense was primarily related to an expense in the year ended December 31, 2009, of approximately
$660,000 associated with the equity modifications of outstanding stock options and shares of restricted stock of our former chief
executive officer, whose employment was terminated in April 2009.
 
Other General and Administrative Expenses.
Other general and administrative expenses increased by $110,000 to $5,014,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared
to $4,904,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase was due to a $943,000 increase in miscellaneous general and administrative
expenses, including investor outreach initiatives, partially offset by an expense in the year ended December 31, 2009, of approximately
$833,000 for severance, pro rata bonus and notice pay related to the termination of our former chief executive officer in April
2009.
 
Interest and Other Income, Net. Interest
and other income, net, increased by $97,000 to $764,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $667,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to a one-time $489,000 grant, received in November 2010, under The Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 for our drug candidates, KRX-0401 (perifosine) and Zerenex (ferric citrate), partially
offset by lower effective interest earned on our investment portfolio in 2010, as well as a realized loss of $82,000 related to
the sale, in May 2010, of our last auction rate security investment.
 
Gain from Discontinued Operations. For
the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a $120,000 reversal of previously recorded estimated liabilities associated with
the discontinued operations of our diagnostic business that was terminated in September 2008. See Note 8 – Discontinued Operations.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Our major sources of cash have been proceeds
from various private placements of equity securities, option and warrant exercises, public offerings of our common stock, interest
income, and from the upfront and milestone payments from our sublicense agreement with JT and Torii and miscellaneous payments
from our other prior licensing activities. We have not yet commercialized any of our drug candidates and cannot be sure if we will
ever be able to do so. Even if we commercialize one or more of our drug candidates, we may not become profitable. Our ability to
achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates,
successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations and successfully commercialize our drug candidates alone or in partnership.
We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even if we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates.
 


40
 

 
In April 2011, we received a non-refundable
milestone payment of $5.0 million from JT and Torii.
 
On May 4, 2011, we announced the pricing of
an underwritten registered offering of 7,021,277 shares of our common stock at a price of $4.70 per share for gross proceeds of
approximately $33 million. Net proceeds from this offering were approximately $30.7 million, net of underwriting discounts and
offering expenses of approximately $2.3 million.
 
As December 31, 2011, we had $39.5 million in
cash, cash equivalents, interest receivable, and investment securities, an increase of $11.0 million from December 31, 2010. Depending
on the outcome of our Phase 3 study for KRX-0401 in refractory advanced colorectal cancer, our operating cash requirements may
vary dramatically. In the event of a negative outcome, we currently anticipate that our cash, cash equivalents and investment securities
as of December 31, 2011, exclusive of our anticipated milestone payments to be received, are sufficient to fund our anticipated
operating cash requirements for approximately 18 to 20 months from December 31, 2011. The actual amount of cash that we will need
to operate is subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, the timing, design and conduct of clinical trials for our
drug candidates. We are dependent upon significant financing to provide the cash necessary to execute our current operations, including
the commercialization of any of our drug candidates.
 
We currently have two shelf registration statements
on Form S-3, filed and declared effective by the SEC, providing for the offering of up to approximately $79 million of common stock
and warrants in the aggregate.
 

·On August 28, 2009, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-161607) and declared effective
by the SEC on September 23, 2009. The registration statement provided for the offering of up to $40 million of our common stock
and warrants. Subsequent to the registered direct offering completed in September 2009, there remains approximately $12 million
of our common stock and warrants available for sale under the shelf registration statement.
 

·On January 3, 2011, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-171517) that was declared
effective by the SEC on January 28, 2011, providing for the offering of up to $100 million of our common stock and warrants to
purchase our common stock. Subsequent to the registered offering in May 2011, there remains approximately $67 million of our common
stock and warrants available for sale under the shelf registration statement.
 
We may offer the securities under our shelf
registration statements from time to time in response to market conditions or other circumstances if we believe such a plan of
financing is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. We believe that these shelf registration statements
provide us with the flexibility to efficiently raise additional capital to finance our operations as needed.
 
Net cash used in operating activities of continuing
operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $22.8 million, as compared to $16.2 million for the year ended December 31,
2010. This increase in cash used in operating activities was due primarily to increased expenditures associated with our Phase
3 clinical programs for KRX-0401 and Zerenex, partially offset by the $5.0 million non-refundable milestone payment received from
JT and Torii in April 2011.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash
used in investing activities of $4.2 million was primarily the result of investments in held-to-maturity short-term securities,
partially offset by maturities of held-to-maturity short-term securities. For the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash provided
by financing activities of $33.8 million was related to net proceeds of $30.7 million received from the underwritten registered
offering in May 2011 and $3.1 million in net proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 
 
We have not entered into any transactions with
unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other
contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligations under a variable
interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides us with financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support.
 
OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 
 
As of December 31, 2011, we have known contractual
obligations, commitments and contingencies of $14,395,000. Of this amount, $13,439,000 relates to research and development agreements
(relating to our KRX-0401 and Zerenex clinical programs), of which $9,251,000 is due within the next year. Most of these commitments
are contingent upon our continuing development of our drug candidates. The additional $956,000 relates to our operating lease obligations,
of which $526,000 is due within the next year.
 


41
 


 


  
Payment due by period 

Contractual obligations 
Total  
Less than  1 year  
1-3  years  
3-5  years  
More than  5 years 

Research and development agreements 
$13,439,000  
$9,251,000  
$4,188,000  
$–  
$– 

Operating leases 
 956,000  
 526,000  
 430,000  
 –  
 – 

Total 
$14,395,000  
$9,777,000  
$4,618,000  
$–  
$– 

 
In August 2010, we signed an amendment to the
lease on our corporate and executive office located in New York City extending its term through September 30, 2013. We also executed
an amendment to our office sharing agreement with a third party for a portion of our leased space through September 29, 2013, whereby
the third party pays us $13,400 per month. This sublet income is not included as an offset to our operating lease obligations in
the table above.
 
We have undertaken to make contingent milestone
payments to certain of our licensors of up to approximately $25.0 million over the life of the licenses, of which approximately
$22.0 million will be due upon or following regulatory approval of the licensed drugs. We have also committed to pay to the former
stockholders of ACCESS Oncology, Inc. certain contingent equity rights (up to 2,872,422 shares of our common stock) if KRX-0401
meets certain development milestones. The contingent equity rights have been recognized as a non-current liability on the consolidated
balance sheet. The uncertainty relating to the timing of the commitments described in this paragraph prevents us from including
them in the table above.
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
 
The discussion and analysis of our financial
condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance
with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount
of assets and liabilities and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the applicable period. Actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions.
 
We define critical accounting policies as those
that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties and which may potentially result in materially different results
under different assumptions and conditions. In applying these critical accounting policies, our management uses its judgment to
determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in making certain estimates. These estimates are subject to an inherent degree
of uncertainty. Our critical accounting policies include the following:  
 
Stock Compensation. We have granted stock
options and restricted stock to employees, directors and consultants, as well as warrants to other third parties. For employee
and director grants, the value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The Black-Scholes model takes into account volatility in the price of our stock, the risk-free interest rate, the estimated life
of the option, the closing market price of our stock and the exercise price. We base our estimates of our stock price volatility
on the historical volatility of our common stock and our assessment of future volatility; however, these estimates are neither
predictive nor indicative of the future performance of our stock. For purposes of the calculation, we assumed that no dividends
would be paid during the life of the options and warrants. The estimates utilized in the Black-Scholes calculation involve inherent
uncertainties and the application of management judgment. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate
and only recognize expense for those equity awards expected to vest. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, our recorded
stock-based compensation expense could have been materially different from that reported. In addition, because some of the options
and warrants issued to employees, consultants and other third-parties vest upon the achievement of certain milestones, the total
expense is uncertain.
 
Total compensation expense for options and restricted
stock issued to consultants is determined at the “measurement date.” The expense is recognized over the vesting period
for the options and restricted stock. Until the measurement date is reached, the total amount of compensation expense remains uncertain.
We record stock-based compensation expense based on the fair value of the equity awards at the reporting date. These equity awards
are then revalued, or the total compensation is recalculated based on the then current fair value, at each subsequent reporting
date. This results in a change to the amount previously recorded in respect of the equity award grant, and additional expense or
a reversal of expense may be recorded in subsequent periods based on changes in the assumptions used to calculate fair value, such
as changes in market price, until the measurement date is reached and the compensation expense is finalized.
 


42
 


 
Accruals for Clinical Research Organization
and Clinical Site Costs. We make estimates of costs incurred in relation to external clinical research organizations, or CROs,
and clinical site costs. We analyze the progress of clinical trials, including levels of patient enrollment, invoices received
and contracted costs when evaluating the adequacy of the amount expensed and the related prepaid asset and accrued liability. Significant
judgments and estimates must be made and used in determining the accrued balance and expense in any accounting period. We review
and accrue CRO expenses and clinical trial study expenses based on work performed and rely upon estimates of those costs applicable
to the stage of completion of a study. Accrued CRO costs are subject to revisions as such trials progress to completion. Revisions
are charged to expense in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. With respect to clinical site
costs, the financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation and vary from contract to contract. Payments under these
contracts may be uneven, and depend on factors such as the achievement of certain events, the successful recruitment of patients,
the completion of portions of the clinical trial or similar conditions. The objective of our policy is to match the recording of
expenses in our financial statements to the actual services received and efforts expended. As such, expense accruals related to
clinical site costs are recognized based on our estimate of the degree of completion of the event or events specified in the specific
clinical study or trial contract.
 
Revenue Recognition. We recognize license
revenue in accordance with the revenue recognition guidance of the Codification. We analyze each element of our licensing agreement
to determine the appropriate revenue recognition. The terms of the license agreement may include payment to us of non-refundable
up-front license fees, milestone payments if specified objectives are achieved, and/or royalties on product sales. We recognize
revenue from upfront payments over the period of significant involvement under the related agreements unless the fee is in exchange
for products delivered or services rendered that represent the culmination of a separate earnings process and no further performance
obligation exists under the contract. We recognize milestone payments as revenue upon the achievement of specified milestones only
if (1) the milestone payment is non-refundable, (2) substantive effort is involved in achieving the milestone, (3) the
amount of the milestone is reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with achievement of the milestone,
and (4) the milestone is at risk for both parties. If any of these conditions are not met, we defer the milestone payment
and recognize it as revenue over the estimated period of performance under the contract.
 
We recognize other revenues at the time such
fees and payments are earned.
 
Accounting Related to Goodwill. As of
December 31, 2011, there was approximately $3.2 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill is reviewed for
impairment annually, or when events arise that could indicate that an impairment exists. We test for goodwill impairment using
a two-step process. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit with the unit's carrying value, including goodwill.
When the carrying value of the reporting unit is greater than fair value, the unit’s goodwill may be impaired, and the second
step must be completed to measure the amount of the goodwill impairment charge, if any. In the second step, the implied fair value
of the reporting unit’s goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of the unit’s goodwill. If the carrying amount
is greater than the implied fair value, the carrying value of the goodwill must be written down to its implied fair value.
 
We are required to perform impairment tests
annually, at December 31, and whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying value of an asset may not be
recoverable. For all of our acquisitions, various analyses, assumptions and estimates were made at the time of each acquisition
that were used to determine the valuation of goodwill and intangibles. In future years, the possibility exists that changes in
forecasts and estimates from those used at the acquisition date could result in impairment indicators.
 
Impairment of Investment Securities.
In May 2010, we sold our one remaining auction rate security investment for $1.6 million, representing a loss of $82,000. Auction
rate securities were recorded at their fair value and were classified as long-term investments. In prior quarters, we assessed
the fair value of our auction rate securities portfolio. As a result of this valuation process, as described below, we reported
an other comprehensive loss of $180,000 in the year ended December 31, 2010, for a reduction of a temporary unrealized gain related
to the estimated fair value of our last auction rate security, and recorded impairment charges of $32,000 and $68,000 in the years
ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for other-than-temporary declines in the value of our auction rate securities,
all of which were included in interest and other income, net.
 
The valuation methods used to estimate the auction
rate securities’ fair value were (1) a discounted cash flow model, where the expected cash flows of the auction rate securities
are discounted to the present using a yield that incorporates compensation for illiquidity, and (2) a market comparables method,
where the auction rate securities are valued based on indications, from the secondary market, of what discounts buyers demand when
purchasing similar auction rate securities. The valuation also included assessments of the underlying structure of each security,
expected cash flows, discount rates, credit ratings, workout periods, and overall capital market liquidity. These assumptions,
assessments and the interpretations of relevant market data are subject to uncertainties, are difficult to predict and require
significant judgment. The use of different assumptions, applying different judgment to inherently subjective matters and changes
in future market conditions could result in significantly different estimates of fair value of our prior investments in auction
rate securities. In addition, the estimated fair value of the auction rates securities may differ from the values that would have
been used had a ready market existed, and the differences could be material to the consolidated financial statements.
 


43
 


 
We review investment securities for impairment
and to determine the classification of the impairment as temporary or other-than-temporary. Losses are recognized in our consolidated
statement of operations when a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary. We review our investments on an
ongoing basis for indications of possible impairment. Once identified, the determination of whether the impairment is temporary
or other-than-temporary requires significant judgment. The primary factors we consider in classifying an impairment include the
extent and time the fair value of each investment has been below cost and our ability to hold such investment to maturity.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. We recognize
an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite
lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event,
comprises measurable operating performance criteria as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence
of a triggering event, we make certain assumptions in determining the impairment amount. Recoverability of assets to be held and
used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset
or used in its disposal. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized
for the excess of the carrying value of the asset above its fair value.
 
Accounting For Income Taxes. In preparing
our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
This process involves management estimation of our actual current tax exposure and assessment of temporary differences resulting
from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent
we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance
or increase this allowance in a period, we must include an expense within the tax provision in the consolidated statement of operations.
Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities
and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We have fully offset our deferred tax assets with a valuation
allowance. Our lack of earnings history and the uncertainty surrounding our ability to generate taxable income prior to the reversal
or expiration of such deferred tax assets were the primary factors considered by management in maintaining the valuation allowance.
 
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting
Standards Update, or ASU, 2011-08, “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other,” which amends current guidance to allow
a company to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill
impairment test. The amendment also improves previous guidance by expanding upon the examples of events and circumstances that
an entity should consider between annual impairment tests in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value
of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. ASU 2011-08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests
performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, which for us means January 1, 2012. We do not expect that the adoption
of ASU 2011-08 will have an impact upon our financial position and results of operations.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05,
“Comprehensive Income (Topic 220).” This newly issued accounting standard (1) eliminates the option to present the
components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity; (2) requires the consecutive
presentation of the statement of net income and other comprehensive income; and (3) requires an entity to present reclassification
adjustments on the face of the financial statements from other comprehensive income to net income. The amendments in this ASU do
not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be
reclassified to net income nor do the amendments affect how earnings per share is calculated or presented. This ASU is required
to be applied retrospectively and is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December
15, 2011, which for us means January 1, 2012. As this accounting standard only requires enhanced disclosure, the adoption of this
standard will not impact our financial position or results of operations.
 


44
 


 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET
RISK.
 
The primary objective of our investment activities
is to preserve principal while maximizing our income from investments and minimizing our market risk. We invest in government and
investment-grade corporate debt in accordance with our investment policy. Some of the securities in which we invest have market
risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates, and/or credit risk, may cause the fair value of the investment to
fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing
interest rate later rises, the fair value of our investment will probably decline. As of December 31, 2011, our portfolio of financial
instruments consists of cash equivalents and short-term interest bearing securities, including government debt, money market funds
and bank deposits. Due to the short-term nature of our investments, we believe there is no material exposure to interest rate risk,
and/or credit risk, arising from our investments.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
Our consolidated financial statements and the
notes thereto, included in Part IV, Item 15(a), part 1, are incorporated by reference into this Item 8.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
None.
 
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.
 
Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. As of December 31, 2011, management carried out, under the supervision and with
the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act). Our
disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in
the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in applicable rules and forms. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that, as of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
 
Management's
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or Rule 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act).
Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making
this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission,
known as COSO, in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Our management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our internal
control over financial reporting was effective based on these criteria. UHY LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm,
has audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements
of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive loss (income), and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, included in this annual report on page F-1. UHY LLP has issued an attestation report on our internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, which is found below.
 
Changes
in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. There were no changes in our internal
control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2011, that have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls.
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls
and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter
how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system
are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of
controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation
of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been
detected.
 


45
 


 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
 
To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
We have audited Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.’s
(the “Company”) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in Part II, Item 9A of this
Form 10-K. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).
 
We have also audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive loss (income), and cash flows of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals,
Inc., and our report dated March 2, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion.
 
/s/ UHY LLP
 
New York, New York
March 2, 2012
 
 
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.
 
None.
 
PART III 
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.
 
The information required by this Item is incorporated
herein by reference from our Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
The information required by this Item is incorporated
herein by reference from our Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 


46
 


 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
The information required by this Item is incorporated
herein by reference from our Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE.
 
The information required by this Item is incorporated
herein by reference from our Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.
 
The information required by this Item is incorporated
herein by reference from our Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 

47
 



 
PART IV
 
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS and FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.
 

  (a)    1.     Consolidated
                                                                                                                                       Financial
                                                                                                                                       Statements

 
The following consolidated financial statements
of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. are filed as part of this report.
 


Contents
Page

 
 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
F-1

 
 

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
F-2

 
 

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
F-3 

 
 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Loss (Income) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
F-4 

 
 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
F-5 

 
 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
F-6 

 

2.Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules

 
All schedules are omitted as the information
required is inapplicable or the information is presented in the consolidated financial statements or the related notes.
 

3.Exhibits

 


Exhibit
 

Number
Exhibit Description

2.1
Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., AXO Acquisition Corp., and ACCESS Oncology, Inc. dated as of January 7, 2004, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 8, 2004, filed on January 15, 2004 (File No. 000-30929), and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

2.2
First Amendment to the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., AXO Acquisition Corp., and ACCESS Oncology, Inc. dated as of February 5, 2004, filed as Exhibit 2.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 2004, filed on February 20, 2004 (File No. 000-30929), and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

3.1
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, filed on August 12, 2004 (File No. 000-30929), and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

3.2
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, filed on March 26, 2002 (File No. 000-30929), and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

3.3
Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., dated July 24, 2007, filed as Exhibit 3.3 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, filed on August 9, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

4.1
Specimen Common Stock Certificate, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s First Amendment to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on June 30, 2000 (File No. 333-37402), and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

10.1†
1999 Stock Option Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 filed on May 15, 2003 (File No. 000-30929) and incorporated herein by reference.

 

48
 

 


10.2†
2000 Stock Option Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 filed on May 15, 2003 (File No. 000-30929) and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

10.3†
2002 CEO Incentive Stock Option Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 filed on May 15, 2003 (File No. 000-30929) and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

10.4!
License Agreement dated September 18, 2002 between Zentaris AG and AOI Pharma, Inc, filed as Exhibit 10.38 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, filed on March 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 
 

10.5!
Addendum Agreement to License and Cooperation Agreement for Perifosine dated December 3, 2003 between Zentaris AG and AOI Pharma, Inc., filed as Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, filed on March 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 
 

10.6
Cooperative Research and Development Agreement between the National Cancer Institute and ASTA Medica Inc., as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.40 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, filed on March 30, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 
 

10.7†
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan, filed with the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on June 10, 2004, filed on April 29, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 
 

10.8!
License Agreement between Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. and Panion & BF Biotech, Inc. dated as of November 7, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed on March 8, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 
 

10.9†
Amendment to the Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan dated April 11, 2006, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, filed on August 9, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 
 

10.10†
2007 Incentive Plan, filed as Annex D to the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A (File No. 000-30929) filed on April 30, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

10.11!
Sub-license Agreement by and among Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., Japan Tobacco Inc., and Torii Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. dated September 26, 2007, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, filed on November 9, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

10.12!
Amended and Restated License Agreement by and between Panion & BF Biotech, Inc. and Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. dated March 17, 2008, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, filed on May 12, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 
 

10.13!
First Amendment to Amended and Restated License Agreement by and between Panion & BF Biotech, Inc. and Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. dated March 17, 2008.

 
 

10.14!
Amended and Restated License Agreement dated June 8, 2009, by and between Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., Japan Tobacco, Inc. and Japan Torii Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, filed on August 8, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 
 

10.15
Settlement Agreement and General Release between Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. and Alfa Wassermann S.p.A. filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, filed on August 8, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 

49
 

 


10.16
Amendment to License and Cooperation Agreement for Perifosine by and among AOI Pharma, Inc. (a subsidiary of the Company) and AEterna Zentaris GmbH dated April 12, 2011, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, filed on May 10, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

10.17†
Employment Agreement with Ron Bentsur dated September 14, 2009, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on September 16, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference. 

 
 

10.18†
First Amendment to Employment Agreement with Ron Bentsur dated January 13, 2012, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on January 19, 2012, and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

10.19†
Second Amended and Restated Directors Equity Compensation Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, filed on August 9, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.

 
 

10.20†
Change in Control Agreement with James F. Oliviero dated October 31, 2011, as amended on November 3, 2011.

 
 

21.1
List of subsidiaries of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.

 
 

23.1
Consent of UHY LLP.

 
 

24.1
Power of Attorney of Director and Officers of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (included herein).

 
 

31.1 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, dated March 2, 2012. 

 
 

31.2 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, dated March 2, 2012. 

 
 

32.1 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, dated March 2, 2012. 

 
 

32.2 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, dated March 2, 2012. 

 
 

101
The following financial information from Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Loss (Income), (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

 
 

 
 

!
Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to the
omitted portions of this exhibit.

†
Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

 

50
 

 
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2011

 
  


Contents
Page

 
 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
F-1

 
 

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
F-2

 
 

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
F-3

 
 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Loss (Income) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
F-4

 
 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
F-5

 
 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
F-6

 

 
 

 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
 
To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (the “Company”) as of December
31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements
of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive loss (income), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2011. The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its consolidated operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 2, 2012, expressed an unqualified
opinion.
 


/s/ UHY LLP
 

 
 

New York, New York
 

 
 

March 2, 2012
 

 

F-1
 

 
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December
31,

(in thousands,
except share and per share amounts)
 


  
2011  
2010 

Assets 
    
   

Current assets: 
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$35,252  
$28,412 

Short-term investment securities 
 4,211  
 100 

Interest receivable 
 7  
 — 

Other current assets 
 534  
 200 

Total current assets 
 40,004  
 28,712 

  
    
   

Property, plant and equipment, net 
 67  
 57 

Goodwill 
 3,208  
 3,208 

Other assets, net 
 209  
 137 

Total assets 
$43,488  
$32,114 

  
    
   

Liabilities and stockholders’ equity 
    
   

Current liabilities: 
    
   

Accounts payable and accrued expenses 
$8,870  
$5,278 

Accrued compensation and related liabilities 
 897  
 669 

Liabilities of discontinued operations 
 —  
 245 

Total current liabilities 
 9,767  
 6,192 

  
    
   

Contingent equity rights 
 2,639  
 2,639 

Other liabilities 
 35  
 35 

Total liabilities 
 12,441  
 8,866 

Commitments and contingencies (Note 14) 
    
   

Stockholders’ equity: 
    
   

Preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share (5,000,000 shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding) 
 —  
 — 

Common stock, $0.001 par value per share (95,000,000 shares authorized, 71,102,899 and 61,521,483  shares issued, 71,022,951 and 61,441,535 shares outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively) 
 71  
 62 

Additional paid-in capital 
 401,220  
 365,307 

Treasury stock, at cost, 79,948 shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively 
 (357) 
 (357)

Accumulated deficit 
 (369,887) 
 (341,764)

Total stockholders’ equity 
 31,047  
 23,248 

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 
$43,488  
$32,114 

 
The accompanying
notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
 

F-2
 

 
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations for
the Year Ended December 31,

(in
thousands, except share and per share amounts)
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Revenue: 
    
    
   

License revenue 
$5,000  
$—  
$21,616 

Other revenue 
 —  
 —  
 3,575 

Total revenue 
 5,000  
 —  
 25,191 

  
    
    
   

Operating expenses: 
    
    
   

Research and development: 
    
    
   

Non-cash compensation 
 803  
 1,236  
 1,233 

Other research and development 
 26,209  
 13,728  
 7,372 

Total research and development 
 27,012  
 14,964  
 8,605 

  
    
    
   

General and administrative: 
    
    
   

Non-cash compensation 
 1,289  
 1,237  
 1,867 

Other general and administrative 
 5,448  
 5,014  
 4,904 

Total general and administrative 
 6,737  
 6,251  
 6,771 

  
    
    
   

Total operating expenses 
 33,749  
 21,215  
 15,376 

  
    
    
   

Operating (loss) income 
 (28,749) 
 (21,215) 
 9,815 

  
    
    
   

Interest and other income, net 
 380  
 764  
 667 

(Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes 
 (28,369) 
 (20,451) 
 10,482 

  
    
    
   

Income taxes 
 —  
 —  
 — 

(Loss) income from continuing operations 
 (28,369) 
 (20,451) 
 10,482 

  
    
    
   

Gain from discontinued operations 
 246  
 120  
 3 

Net (loss) income 
$(28,123) 
$(20,331) 
$10,485 

  
    
    
   

Basic net (loss) income per common share: 
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21 

Discontinued operations 
 —* 
 —* 
 —*

Basic net (loss) income per common share 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21 

  
    
    
   

Diluted net (loss) income per common share: 
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21 

Discontinued operations 
 —* 
 —* 
 —*

Diluted net (loss) income per common share 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21 

  
    
    
   

Weighted average shares used in computing basic net (loss) income per common share 
 67,370,354  
 58,987,854  
 49,940,730 

Weighted average shares used in computing diluted net (loss) income per common share 
 67,370,354  
 58,987,854  
 50,498,982 

 
* Amount less than one cent.
 
The accompanying
notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
 

F-3
 

 
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity and Comprehensive Loss (Income)
for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009

(in
thousands, except share amounts)
 


  
   
   
Additional  
   
   
Accumulated  
   
  

  
Common stock  
paid-in  
Treasury stock  
other comp  
Accumulated  
  

  
Shares  
Amount  
capital  
Shares  
Amount  
income (loss)  
deficit  
Total 

Balance at December 31, 2008 
 47,729,507  
$48  
$330,738  
 79,948  
$(357) 
$-  
$(331,918) 
$(1,489)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Issuance of common stock
    in public offering (net of offering costs of $1,557) 
 8,000,000  
 8  
 15,553  
    
    
    
    
 15,561 

Issuance of common stock
    warrants in public offering 
    
    
 2,877  
    
    
    
    
 2,877 

Issuance of common stock
    in connection with acquisition 
 500,000  
 1  
 1,364  
    
    
    
    
 1,365 

Issuance of restricted stock 
 578,539  
 -* 
    
    
    
    
    
 -*

Forfeiture of restricted stock 
 (361,742) 
 (-)* 
    
    
    
    
    
 (-)*

Issuance of common stock
    in connection with exercise of warrants 
 64,174  
 -* 
 -* 
    
    
    
    
 -*

Issuance of common stock
    in connection with exercise of options 
 50,000  
 -* 
 18  
    
    
    
    
 18 

Compensation in respect
    of options and restricted stock granted to employees, directors and third-parties 
    
    
 3,100  
    
    
    
    
 3,100 

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
    
    
    
    
    
    
 10,485  
 10,485 

Unrealized
    gain on long-term investment securities 
    
    
    
    
    
 180  
    
 180 

Total comprehensive income 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 10,665 

Balance at December 31, 2009 
 56,560,478  
$57  
$353,650  
 79,948  
$(357) 
$180  
$(321,433) 
$32,097 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Issuance of restricted stock 
 695,500  
 1  
    
    
    
    
    
 1 

Forfeiture of restricted stock 
 (7,635) 
 (-)* 
    
    
    
    
    
 (-)*

Issuance of common stock
    in connection with the exercise of warrants from public offering (net of offering costs of $452) 
 2,908,000  
 3  
 7,302  
    
    
    
    
 7,305 

Issuance of common stock
    in connection with the exercise of options 
 1,365,140  
 1  
 1,883  
    
    
    
    
 1,884 

Compensation in respect
    of options and restricted stock granted to employees, directors and third-parties 
    
    
 2,472  
    
    
    
    
 2,472 

Comprehensive loss: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net loss 
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (20,331) 
 (20,331)

Reduction
    of unrealized gain on long-term investment securities 
    
    
    
    
    
 (180) 
    
 (180)

Total comprehensive loss 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (20,511)

Balance at December 31, 2010 
 61,521,483  
$62  
$365,307  
 79,948  
$(357) 
$—  
$(341,764) 
$23,248 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Issuance of common stock
    in public offering (net of offering costs of $2,266) 
 7,021,277  
 7  
 30,727  
    
    
    
    
 30,734 

Issuance of restricted stock 
 206,450  
 -* 
    
    
    
    
    
 -*

Forfeiture of restricted stock 
 (28,338) 
 (-)* 
    
    
    
    
    
 (-)*

Issuance of common stock
    in connection with the exercise of options 
 2,382,027  
 2  
 3,094  
    
    
    
    
 3,096 

Compensation in respect
    of options and restricted stock granted to employees, directors and third-parties 
    
    
 2,092  
    
    
    
    
 2,092 

Comprehensive loss: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net loss 
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (28,123) 
 (28,123)

Total comprehensive loss 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 (28,123)

Balance at December 31, 2011 
 71,102,899  
$71  
$401,220  
 79,948  
$(357) 
$—  
$(369,887) 
$31,047 

 
*
Amount less than one thousand dollars.
 
The accompanying
notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
 

F-4
 

 
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
the Year Ended December 31,

(in
thousands)
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
   

  
    
    
   

Net (loss) income 
$(28,123) 
$(20,331) 
$10,485 

Gain from discontinued operations 
 246  
 120  
 3 

(Loss) income from continuing operations 
 (28,369) 
 (20,451) 
 10,482 

Adjustments to reconcile (loss) income from continuing operations to cash flows used in operating activities of continuing operations: 
    
    
   

Stock compensation expense 
 2,092  
 2,473  
 3,100 

Depreciation and amortization 
 47  
 60  
 92 

Loss (gain) on sale of investment securities 
 —  
 82  
 (173)

Impairment of investment securities 
 —  
 32  
 68 

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions: 
    
    
   

(Increase) decrease in other current assets 
 (334) 
 1,321  
 (1,013)

(Increase) decrease in accrued interest receivable 
 (7) 
 66  
 (41)

Increase in security deposits 
 (51) 
 (50) 
 — 

(Increase) decrease in other assets 
 (21) 
 (6) 
 3 

Increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses 
 3,592  
 376  
 388 

Increase (decrease) in accrued compensation and related liabilities 
 228  
 (86) 
 259 

Decrease in other liabilities 
 —  
 (15) 
 (68)

Decrease in deferred revenue 
 —  
 —  
 (18,616)

Net cash used in operating activities of continuing operations 
 (22,823) 
 (16,198) 
 (5,519)

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities of discontinued operations 
 1  
 (10) 
 3 

Net cash used in operating activities 
 (22,822) 
 (16,208) 
 (5,516)

  
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
   

  
    
    
   

Purchases of property, plant and equipment 
 (57) 
 (23) 
 (4)

Investment in held-to-maturity short-term securities 
 (9,941) 
 (18,366) 
 (17,593)

Proceeds from maturity of held-to-maturity short-term securities 
 5,830  
 35,814  
 2,343 

Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale long-term securities 
 —  
 1,620  
 5,557 

Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities 
 (4,168) 
 19,045  
 (9,697)

  
    
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
   

  
    
    
   

Proceeds from public offerings, net 
 30,734  
 —  
 18,438 

Proceeds from exercise of warrants from public offering, net 
 —  
 7,305  
 — 

Proceeds from exercise of options 
 3,096  
 1,884  
 18 

  
    
    
   

Net cash provided by financing activities 
 33,830  
 9,189  
 18,456 

  
    
    
   

NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
 6,840  
 12,026  
 3,243 

  
    
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 28,412  
 16,386  
 13,143 

  
    
    
   

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 
$35,252  
$28,412  
$16,386 

  
    
    
   

NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS 
    
    
   

Issuance of common stock in connection with contingent equity rights 
$—  
$—  
$1,365 

Issuance of warrants to placement agent in public offering 
 —  
 —  
 100 

 
The accompanying
notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
 

F-5
 

 
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report
to “Keryx,” “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Keryx Biopharmaceuticals,
Inc. and our subsidiaries.
 
NOTE 1 - ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on
the acquisition, development and commercialization of medically important pharmaceutical products for the treatment of cancer and
renal disease. We own a 100% interest in each of ACCESS Oncology, Inc. (“ACCESS Oncology”), Neryx Biopharmaceuticals,
Inc., and Accumin Diagnostics, Inc. (“ADI”), all U.S. corporations incorporated in the State of Delaware. Most of our
biopharmaceutical development and substantially all of our administrative operations during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were conducted
in the U.S.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Except for 2009, we
have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception, and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable
future and may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2011, we have an accumulated deficit of $369.9 million.
 
Our major sources of
cash have been proceeds from various private placements of equity securities, public offerings of our common stock, option and
warrant exercises, interest income, and from the upfront and milestone payments from our Sublicense Agreement with Japan Tobacco
Inc. (“JT”) and Torii Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (“Torii”) and miscellaneous payments from our other prior
licensing activities. We have not yet commercialized any of our drug candidates and cannot be sure if we will ever be able to do
so. Even if we commercialize one or more of our drug candidates, we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability
depends on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, successfully complete
any post-approval regulatory obligations and successfully commercialize our drug candidates alone or in partnership. We may continue
to incur substantial operating losses even if we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates, if approved.
 
Depending on the outcome
of our Phase 3 study for KRX-0401 in refractory advanced colorectal cancer, our operating cash requirements may vary dramatically.
In the event of a negative outcome, we currently anticipate that our cash, cash equivalents and investment securities as of December
31, 2011, exclusive of our anticipated milestone payments to be received, are sufficient to fund our anticipated operating cash
requirements for approximately 18 to 20 months from December 31, 2011. The actual amount of cash that we will need to operate is
subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, the timing, design and conduct of clinical trials for our drug candidates.
We are dependent upon significant financing to provide the cash necessary to execute our current operations, including the commercialization
of any of our drug candidates.
 
We currently have two shelf registration statements
on Form S-3 filed and declared effective by the SEC, providing for the offering of up to $79 million of common stock and warrants
in the aggregate. We may offer the securities under our shelf registration statements from time to time in response to market conditions
or other circumstances if we believe such a plan of financing is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders.
We believe that these shelf registration statements provide us with the flexibility to efficiently raise additional capital to
finance our operations as needed.
 
Our common stock is listed
on the NASDAQ Capital Market and
trades under the symbol “KERX.”
 
2009 MANAGEMENT CHANGES
 
On April 23, 2009, our Board of Directors voted
to terminate the employment of Michael S. Weiss as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Under the terms of Mr. Weiss’
employment agreement with us dated December 23, 2002, as amended on December 26, 2008 (the “Employment Agreement”),
he remained an employee for a period of 90 days; however, during such notice period, he did not serve as our Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer.
 

F-6
 

 
The Employment Agreement provided that Mr. Weiss
was entitled to receive as severance (i) one year's base salary, (ii) payment of his salary during the 90 days following formal
notice of termination of employment, and (iii) a pro rata bonus for the year of termination. In addition, under the terms of the
Employment Agreement, all of Mr. Weiss’ outstanding stock options and shares of restricted stock vested, and all stock options
remained exercisable for two years following termination. In the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded approximately $833,000
of expense, in other general and administrative expenses, associated with the cash severance, pro rata bonus and salary during
the notice period (of which approximately $245,000 was included in accrued compensation at December 31, 2009 and was paid in January
2010). Additionally, in the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded approximately $660,000 in non-cash compensation expense (general
and administrative) associated with the equity modifications of Mr. Weiss’ outstanding stock options and shares of restricted
stock.
 
On May 20, 2009, we announced that we appointed
Ron Bentsur as Chief Executive Officer. The terms of Mr. Bentsur’s employment are set forth in an employment agreement with
us dated September 14, 2009, as amended on January 13, 2012. As an inducement to his employment, on May 20, 2009, we granted
Mr. Bentsur options to purchase 600,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.35, the fair market value of the
stock as of the date of grant. The options will vest in equal annual installments over a four-year period or upon an earlier
change in control of the Company. The options were granted as an inducement award and were not issued under our 2007 Incentive
Plan.
 
On June 16, 2009, Ron Bentsur was appointed
to our Board of Directors by unanimous vote of the Board of Directors, and Michael P. Tarnok was appointed Chairman of the
Board by unanimous vote of the Board of Directors. 
 
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08,
“Intangibles — Goodwill and Other,” which amends current guidance to allow a company to first assess qualitative
factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. The amendment also
improves previous guidance by expanding upon the examples of events and circumstances that an entity should consider between annual
impairment tests in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying
amount. ASU 2011-08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2011, which for us means January 1, 2012. We do not expect that the adoption of ASU 2011-08 will have an impact upon our financial
position and results of operations.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05,
“Comprehensive Income (Topic 220).” This newly issued accounting standard (1) eliminates the option to present the
components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity; (2) requires the consecutive
presentation of the statement of net income and other comprehensive income; and (3) requires an entity to present reclassification
adjustments on the face of the financial statements from other comprehensive income to net income. The amendments in this ASU do
not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be
reclassified to net income nor do the amendments affect how earnings per share is calculated or presented. This ASU is required
to be applied retrospectively and is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December
15, 2011, which for us means January 1, 2012. As this accounting standard only requires enhanced disclosure, the adoption of this
standard will not impact our financial position or results of operations.
 
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
 
The consolidated financial statements include
our financial statements and those of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated
in consolidation.
 

F-7
 

 
USE OF ESTIMATES
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and judgments that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the applicable reporting period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements.
 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
We treat liquid investments with original maturities
of less than three months when purchased as cash and cash equivalents.
 
INVESTMENT SECURITIES
 
Investment securities at December 31, 2011 consist
of short-term government securities. Investment securities at December 31, 2010 consisted of a bank deposit. We classify our short-term
and long-term debt securities as held-to-maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are those securities in which we have the ability
and intent to hold the security until maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization
or accretion of premiums or discounts. Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted over the life of the related held-to-maturity
security as an adjustment to yield using the effective interest method. Available-for-sale investment securities (which were comprised
of auction rate securities) are recorded at fair value. See Note 4 – Fair Value Measurements.
 
A decline in the market value of any investment
security below cost, that is deemed to be other than temporary, results in a reduction in the carrying amount to fair value. The
impairment is charged to operations and a new cost basis for the security is established. Other-than-temporary impairment charges
are included in interest and other income, net, and unrealized gains, if determined to be temporary, are included in accumulated
other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity. Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned.
 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at
historical cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets:
 


  
Estimated useful life (years) 

Office furniture and equipment 
 3-7 

Computers, software and related equipment 
 3 

 
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the
shorter of their useful life or the remaining term of the lease exclusive of renewal options.
 
PATENT COSTS
 
We expense patent maintenance costs as incurred.
We have classified our patent expenses in other general and administrative.

 
REVENUE RECOGNITION
 
We recognize license revenue in accordance with
the revenue recognition guidance of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or the Codification. We analyze each element of
our licensing agreement to determine the appropriate revenue recognition. The terms of the license agreement may include payments
to us of non-refundable up-front license fees, milestone payments if specified objectives are achieved, and/or royalties on product
sales. We recognize revenue from upfront payments over the period of significant involvement under the related agreements unless
the fee is in exchange for products delivered or services rendered that represent the culmination of a separate earnings process
and no further performance obligation exists under the contract. We recognize milestone payments as revenue upon the achievement
of specified milestones only if (1) the milestone payment is non-refundable, (2) substantive effort is involved in achieving
the milestone, (3) the amount of the milestone is reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with
achievement of the milestone, and (4) the milestone is at risk for both parties. If any of these conditions are not met, we
defer the milestone payment and recognize it as revenue over the estimated period of performance under the contract (see Note 9
– License Agreements).
 

F-8
 

 
Other revenue consists of fees and payments
arising from technology transfer, termination and settlement agreements related to our prior license agreements. Other revenues
are recognized at the time such fees and payments are earned. See Note 9 – License Agreements.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS
 
Research
and development costs are expensed as incurred. Nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered
for future research and development activities are deferred and amortized over the period that the goods are delivered or the related
services are performed, subject to an assessment of recoverability. We make estimates of costs incurred in relation to external
clinical research organizations, or CROs, and clinical site costs. We analyze the progress of clinical trials, including levels
of patient enrollment, invoices received and contracted costs when evaluating the adequacy of the amount expensed and the related
prepaid asset and accrued liability. Significant judgments and estimates must be made and used in determining the accrued balance
and expense in any accounting period. We review and accrue CRO expenses
and clinical trial study expenses based on work performed and rely upon estimates of those costs applicable to the stage of completion
of a study. Accrued CRO costs are subject to revisions as such trials progress to completion. Revisions are charged to expense
in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. With respect to clinical site costs, the financial
terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation and vary from contract to contract. Payments under these contracts may be
uneven, and depend on factors such as the achievement of certain events, the successful recruitment of patients, the completion
of portions of the clinical trial or similar conditions. The objective of our policy is to match the recording of expenses in our
financial statements to the actual services received and efforts expended. As such, expense accruals related to clinical site costs
are recognized based on our estimate of the degree of completion of the event or events specified in the specific clinical study
or trial contract.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset
and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases,
operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected
to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect
on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in operations in the period that includes the enactment
date. If the likelihood of realizing the deferred tax assets or liability is less than “more likely than not,” a valuation
allowance is then created.
 
We, and our subsidiaries, file income tax returns
in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in various states. We have tax net operating loss carryforwards that are subject to examination
for a number of years beyond the year in which they were generated for tax purposes. Since a portion of these net operating loss
carryforwards may be utilized in the future, many of these net operating loss carryforwards will remain subject to examination.
 
We are continuing our practice of recognizing
interest and penalties related to uncertain income tax positions in income tax expense.
 
STOCK - BASED COMPENSATION
 
We recognize all share-based payments to employees
and to non-employee directors as compensation for service on our board of directors as compensation expense in the consolidated
financial statements based on the fair values of such payments. Stock-based compensation expense recognized each period is based
on the value of the portion of share-based payment awards that is ultimately expected to vest during the period. Forfeitures are
estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
 

F-9
 

 
For share-based payments to consultants and
other third-parties, compensation expense is determined at the “measurement date.” The expense is recognized over the
vesting period of the award. Until the measurement date is reached, the total amount of compensation expense remains uncertain.
We record compensation expense based on the fair value of the award at the reporting date. The awards to consultants and other
third-parties are then revalued, or the total compensation is recalculated based on the then current fair value, at each subsequent
reporting date.
 
BASIC AND DILUTED NET (LOSS) INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
 
Basic net loss or income per share is based
upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss or income per share is based
upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, plus the effect of additional weighted average
common equivalent shares outstanding during the period when the effect of adding such shares is dilutive. Common equivalent shares
result from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants (the proceeds of which are then assumed to have been
used to repurchase outstanding stock using the treasury stock method). In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock
method include the average unrecognized compensation expense of stock options that are in-the-money. This results in the “assumed”
buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of stock options and warrants. Common equivalent shares have
not been included in the net loss per share calculations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, because the effect of
including them would have been anti-dilutive.
 
Basic and diluted net (loss) income per share
were determined as follows:
 


  
For the year ended December 31 

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Basic: 
    
    
   

(Loss) income from continuing operations 
$(28,369) 
$(20,451) 
$10,482 

Gain from discontinued operations 
 246  
 120  
 3 

Net (loss) income 
$(28,123) 
$(20,331) 
$10,485 

Weighted average shares outstanding 
 67,370,354  
 58,987,854  
 49,940,730 

Basic net (loss) income per common share: 
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21 

Discontinued operations 
 —* 
 —* 
 —*

Basic net (loss) income per common share 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21 

Diluted: 
    
    
   

(Loss) income from continuing operations 
$(28,369) 
$(20,451) 
$10,482 

Gain from discontinued operations 
 246  
 120  
 3 

Net (loss) income 
$(28,123) 
$(20,331) 
$10,485 

Weighted average shares outstanding 
 67,370,354  
 58,987,854  
 49,940,730 

Effect of dilutive options and warrants 
 —  
 —  
 558,252 

Weighted average shares outstanding assuming dilution 
 67,370,354  
 58,987,854  
 50,498,982 

Diluted net (loss) income per common share: 
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21 

Discontinued operations 
 —* 
 —* 
 —*

Diluted net (loss) income per common share 
$(0.42) 
$(0.34) 
$0.21 

 
* Amount less than one cent.
 
We did not include the following securities
in the computation of diluted net (loss) income per common share in the table above because the securities were anti-dilutive during
the periods presented:
 


  
For the year ended December 31 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Stock options 
 3,517,000  
 7,638,403  
 8,417,920 

Warrants 
 —  
 —  
 2,908,000 

Total 
 3,517,000  
 7,638,403  
 11,325,920 

 

F-10
 

 
COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME
 
Comprehensive (loss) income is composed of net
(loss) income and other comprehensive (loss) income. Other comprehensive (loss) income, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and
2009, is comprised of unrealized losses or gains on our available-for-sale long-term investment securities that are excluded from
net (loss) income and reported separately in stockholders’ equity.
 
SEGMENT REPORTING
 
Following the discontinuation of the Diagnostic
segment in September 2008 and the Services segment in December 2011, we have determined that we operate in only one reportable
segment: the Products segment.
 
ACQUISITIONS 
 
We
adopted ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, as of January 1, 2009. The adoption of ASC Topic 805 was effective on a prospective
basis. Prior to the adoption of ASC Topic 805, we accounted for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting which
required that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values.
Our consolidated financial statements and results of operations through 2008 reflected an acquired business after the completion
of the acquisition and were not retroactively restated. The cost to acquire a business, including transaction costs, was allocated
to the underlying net assets of the acquired business in proportion to their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase
price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill. Any excess of the net assets acquired
over the purchase price represented negative goodwill. 
 
IMPAIRMENT
 
Long
lived assets are reviewed for an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and
intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator
exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis
is necessitated by the occurrence of a triggering event, we make certain assumptions in determining the impairment amount. Recoverability
of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future cash flows expected to be
generated by the asset or used in its disposal. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an
impairment charge is recognized. 
 
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually,
or when events arise that could indicate that an impairment exists. We test for goodwill impairment using a two-step process. The
first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit with the unit's carrying value, including goodwill. When the carrying
value of the reporting unit is greater than fair value, the unit’s goodwill may be impaired, and the second step must be
completed to measure the amount of the goodwill impairment charge, if any. In the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting
unit’s goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of the unit’s goodwill. If the carrying amount is greater than
the implied fair value, the carrying value of the goodwill must be written down to its implied fair value. As of December 31, 2009,
2010 and 2011, management conducted its annual assessments of goodwill and concluded that there were no impairments. We will continue
to perform impairment tests annually, at December 31, and whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying
value of an asset may not be recoverable.
 
CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK
 
We do not have significant off-balance-sheet
risk or credit risk concentrations. We maintain our cash and cash equivalents and held-to-maturity investments with multiple financial
institutions that invest in investment-grade securities with average maturities of less than twelve months. See Note 3 –
Investment Securities and Note 4 – Fair Value Measurements.
 

F-11
 

 
NOTE 2 – CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
 


(in thousands) 
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

  
   
  

Money market funds 
$16,347  
$22,743 

Checking and bank deposits 
 18,905  
 5,669 

Total 
$35,252  
$28,412 

 
Cash is maintained in Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (“FDIC”) insured accounts at credit qualified financial institutions. At times, such amounts may exceed
the FDIC insurance limits. In October 2008, the FDIC increased its insurance from $100,000 per depositor to $250,000, and to an
unlimited amount for non-interest bearing accounts. The coverage increase, which is temporary, extends through December 31, 2013
for interest bearing accounts and December 31, 2012 for non-interest bearing accounts. At December 31, 2011, uninsured cash balances
totaled approximately $32.8 million.
 
NOTE 3 - INVESTMENT SECURITIES
 
We record our investments as either held-to-maturity
or available-for-sale. Held-to-maturity investments are recorded at amortized cost. Available-for-sale investment securities are
recorded at fair value (see Note 4 – Fair Value Measurements). Other-than-temporary impairment charges are included in interest
and other income, net, and unrealized gains (losses), if determined to be temporary, are included in accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) in stockholders’ equity.
 
The following tables summarize our investment
securities at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 


  
December 31, 2011 

(in thousands) 
Amortized cost,
    as adjusted  
Gross unrealized holding gains  
Gross unrealized holding losses  
Estimated fair value 

Short-term investments (held-to-maturity): 
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Obligations of domestic governmental agencies (mature April 2012) 
$4,011  
$2  
$—  
$4,013 

Bank deposit (matures February 2012) 
 200  
 —  
 —  
 200 

Total short-term investment securities 
$4,211  
$2  
$—  
$4,213 

 


  
December 31, 2010 

(in thousands) 
Amortized cost, as adjusted  
Gross unrealized holding gains  
Gross unrealized holding losses  
Estimated fair value 

Short-term investments (held-to-maturity): 
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Bank deposit (matured January 2011) 
$100  
 —  
 —  
$100 

Total short-term investment securities 
$100  
$—  
$—  
$100 

 
NOTE 4 – FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
 
We measure certain financial assets and liabilities
at fair value on a recurring basis in the financial statements. The hierarchy ranks the quality and reliability of inputs, or assumptions,
used in the determination of fair value and requires financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value to be classified and
disclosed in one of the following three categories:
 

·Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities;
 

·Level 2 – inputs other than Level 1 quoted prices that are directly or indirectly observable; and
 

·Level 3 – unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.
 

F-12
 

 
In the year ended December 31, 2010, we sold
our last remaining auction rate security investment for $1.6 million, representing a loss of $82,000. In the year ended December
31, 2009, we sold four auction rate security investments for $5.6 million, representing a gain of $173,000. Auction rate securities
were recorded at their fair value and classified as long-term investments.
 
Quarterly, we assessed the fair value of our
auction rate securities portfolio. As a result of this valuation process, as described below, we reported an other comprehensive
loss of $180,000 and an other comprehensive gain of $180,000, in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for
the temporary unrealized loss and gain, respectively, related to the estimated fair value of our last auction rate security, and
reported other-than-temporary impairment charges and net realized gains and losses in interest and other income, net, as per the
following table.
 


  
For the year ended December 31 

(in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Impairment of investment securities 
$—  
$(32) 
$(68)

Net realized loss 
 —  
 (82) 
 — 

Net realized gain 
 —  
 —  
 173 

  
$—  
$(114) 
$105 

 
The valuation methods used to estimate the auction
rate securities’ fair value were (1) a discounted cash flow model, where the expected cash flows of the auction rate securities
are discounted to the present using a yield that incorporates compensation for illiquidity, and (2) a market comparables method,
where the auction rate securities are valued based on indications, from the secondary market, of what discounts buyers demand when
purchasing similar auction rate securities. The valuation also included assessments of the underlying structure of each security,
expected cash flows, discount rates, credit ratings, workout periods, and overall capital market liquidity. These assumptions,
assessments and the interpretations of relevant market data are subject to uncertainties, are difficult to predict and require
significant judgment. The use of different assumptions, applying different judgment to inherently subjective matters and changes
in future market conditions could result in significantly different estimates of fair value of our past investments in auction
rate securities. In addition, the estimated fair value of the auction rate securities may differ from the values that would have
been used had a ready market existed, and the differences could be material to our consolidated financial statements.
 
We review investment securities for impairment
and to determine the classification of the impairment as temporary or other-than-temporary. Losses are recognized in our consolidated
statement of operations when a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary. We review our investments on an
ongoing basis for indications of possible impairment. Once identified, the determination of whether the impairment is temporary
or other-than-temporary requires significant judgment. We believe that the impairment charges related to our auction rate securities
investments were other-than-temporary. The primary factors we considered in classifying impairments related to these securities
included the extent and time the fair value of each investment had been below cost and our ability to hold such investment to maturity.
 
The following table provides the fair value
measurements of applicable financial assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
Financial assets at fair value  as of December 31, 2011 

(in thousands) 
Level 1  
Level 2  
Level 3 

  
   
   
  

Money market funds (1) 
$16,347  
$—  
$— 

Obligations of domestic governmental agencies (held-to-maturity) (2) 
 4,011  
 —  
 — 

Bank deposits (held-to-maturity) 
 200  
 —  
 — 

Total 
$20,558  
$—  
$— 

 


  
Financial assets at fair value  as of December 31, 2010 

(in thousands) 
Level 1  
Level 2  
Level 3 

  
   
   
  

Money market funds (1) 
$22,743  
$—  
$— 

Bank deposits (held-to-maturity) 
 100  
 —  
 — 

Total 
$22,843  
$—  
$— 

  

(1)Included in cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet. The carrying amount of money market funds is a reasonable
estimate of fair value.

(2)Amortized cost approximates fair value.



F-13
 



 
The following table summarizes the change in
carrying value associated with Level 3 financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011:
 


(in thousands) 
Available-for-sale
    long-term investments 

Balance at December 31, 2009 
$1,914 

  
   

Total impairment charges included in net (loss) income 
 (32)

Sale of security 
 (1,620)

Realized loss on sale of security 
 (82)

Other comprehensive loss (reduction of temporary unrealized gain) 
 (180)

Balance at December 31, 2010 
$— 

Balance at December 31, 2011 
$— 

 
NOTE 5 - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

 


(in thousands) 
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

  
   
  

Leasehold improvements 
$20  
$20 

Office furniture and equipment 
 329  
 315 

Computers, software and related equipment 
 506  
 463 

  
 855  
 798 

Accumulated depreciation and amortization 
 (788) 
 (741)

Net book value 
$67  
$57 

 
Depreciation expense for the years ended December
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $47,000, $60,000 and $92,000, respectively. The following table summarizes depreciation
expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 


  
For the year ended December 31 

(in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Depreciation expense: 
    
    
   

Research and development 
 28  
 36  
 55 

General and administrative 
 19  
 24  
 37 

Total 
$47  
$60  
$92 

 
NOTE 6 –
GOODWILL
 
On April 6, 2006, ADI, our wholly-owned subsidiary,
completed the acquisition of AccuminTM, a novel, patent protected, diagnostic for the direct measurement of total,
intact urinary albumin, from AusAm Biotechnologies, Inc. The purchase price of Accumin was $3,996,000. We accounted for the ADI
transaction as a purchase. The excess of the purchase price over the net assets acquired in the ADI transaction represented goodwill
of approximately $3,208,000, which was allocated to our Products segment based on the proposed synergies with our then existing
drug pipeline activities. In September 2008, we terminated our license agreement related to the ADI product and ceased all operations
related to the Diagnostic segment. See Note 8 – Discontinued Operations.
 
NOTE 7 - OTHER ASSETS
 


(in thousands) 
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

  
   
  

Patents and other intangible assets 
$352  
$352 

Deposits 
 163  
 112 

Deferred registration fees 
 46  
 25 

  
 561  
 489 

  
    
   

Accumulated amortization 
 (352) 
 (352)

  
$209  
$137 

 
There were no amortization expenses for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. We do not expect to record amortization expenses going forward, as all intangible
assets are fully amortized.

 

F-14
 

   
NOTE 8 –
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
In December 2011, we
ceased the operations of Online Collaborative Oncology Group, which was providing clinical trial management and site recruitment
services and ceased all operations related to the Services segment. In September 2008, we terminated the license agreement related
to the ADI product and ceased all operations related to our Diagnostic segment. The results of our Services
and Diagnostic segments and the related financial positions have been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated
financial statements. The consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to discontinued operations presentation
for all historical periods presented. 
 
For the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, we recorded reversals of previously recorded estimated liabilities associated with our discontinued
operations of $246,000 and $120,000, respectively. Summarized selected financial information
for discontinued operations are as follows:
 


  
For the year ended December 31 

(in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Service revenue 
$156  
$—  
$3 

Operating expenses: 
    
    
   

Cost of services 
 (90) 
 —  
 — 

Selling, general and administrative 
 —  
 (120) 
 — 

Total operating income 
 246  
 120  
 3 

Gain from discontinued operations 
$246  
$120  
$3 

 
The assets and liabilities of discontinued operations
are stated separately on our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The major assets and liabilities categories are as follows:
 


(in thousands) 
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

Assets 
    
   

Assets of discontinued operations 
$—  
$— 

  
    
   

Liabilities 
    
   

Accounts payable and accrued expenses 
$—  
$89 

Deferred revenue 
 —  
 156 

Liabilities of discontinued operations 
$—  
$245 

 
NOTE 9 - LICENSE AGREEMENTS
 
In September 2007, we entered into a Sublicense
Agreement with JT and Torii, under which JT and Torii obtained the exclusive sublicense rights for the development and commercialization
of ferric citrate in Japan, which is being developed in the U.S. under the trade name Zerenex. JT and Torii are responsible for
the future development and commercialization costs in Japan. Effective as of June 8, 2009, we entered into an Amended and Restated
Sublicense Agreement (the “Revised Agreement”) with JT and Torii, which, among other things, provided for the elimination
of all significant on-going obligations under the sublicense agreement. Accordingly, in accordance with our revenue recognition
policies, all remaining deferred revenue pertaining to this sublicense was recognized in the year ended December 31, 2009.
 

F-15
 

 
Prior to the Revised Agreement, an upfront payment
of $12.0 million, which was received in October 2007, was being recognized as license revenue on a straight-line basis over the
life of the agreement, which is through the expiration of the last-to-expire patent covered by the agreement in 2023, and represented
the estimated period over which we had certain significant ongoing responsibilities under the original sublicense agreement. An
additional milestone payment of $8.0 million, for the achievement of certain milestones reached in March 2008, was received in
April 2008, and was being recognized as license revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the original agreement, as discussed
above. As a result of the signing of the Revised Agreement, as discussed above, the unamortized portion of the upfront payment
of $12.0 million and the additional milestone payment of $8.0 million, approximately $18.0 million, was recognized in the year
ended December 31, 2009.
 
In March 2009, JT and Torii informed us that
they had initiated a Phase 2 clinical study of ferric citrate in Japan, which triggered a $3.0 million non-refundable milestone
payment, which we received in March 2009. As a result, we recorded license revenue of $3.0 million in accordance with our revenue
recognition policy, which was included in the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
In April 2011, JT and Torii commenced a Phase
3 clinical program of ferric citrate in Japan. Under the terms of the license agreement with JT and Torii, we received a non-refundable
milestone payment of $5.0 million in April 2011 for the achievement of the Phase 3 milestone. As a result, we recorded license
revenue of $5.0 million in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, which is included in the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
We may receive up to an additional $72.0 million
in payments upon the achievement of pre-specified milestones. In addition, upon commercialization, JT and Torii will make royalty
payments to us on net sales of ferric citrate in Japan.
 
In July 2009, we settled a dispute with Alfa
Wassermann S.p.A. over issues arising from the terminated license agreement for Sulonex (sulodexide). Under the terms of the settlement
agreement, Alfa Wassermann paid us $3,500,000 (of which $2,750,000 was received in July 2009, and $750,000 was received in July
2010), and we were required to deliver to Alfa Wassermann all of our data, information and other intellectual property related
to Sulonex.
 
NOTE 10 – CONTINGENT EQUITY RIGHTS
 
On February 5, 2004, we acquired ACCESS Oncology,
a related party, for a purchase price of approximately $19,502,000. The purchase price included our assumption of certain liabilities
of ACCESS Oncology equal to approximately $8,723,000, the issuance of shares of our common stock valued at approximately $6,325,000,
contingent equity rights valued at approximately $4,004,000 and transaction costs of approximately $450,000.
 
At the effective date of the merger, each share
of ACCESS Oncology common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options exercised before March 1, 2004, and upon
the exercise of outstanding warrants, was converted into the right to share in the contingent equity rights pro rata with the other
holders of ACCESS Oncology common stock. Pursuant to the merger agreement, 623,145 shares of our common stock valued at approximately
$6,325,000 have been issued to the former preferred stockholders of ACCESS Oncology. An additional 4,433 shares of our common stock
are issuable to those preferred stockholders of ACCESS Oncology who have yet to provide the necessary documentation to receive
shares of our common stock.
 
On December 16, 2009, we announced the initiation
of a Phase 3 registration trial of KRX-0401 (perifosine) for the treatment of patients with relapsed / refractory multiple myeloma.
The achievement of this event triggered contingent milestone stock consideration payable to the former stockholders of ACCESS Oncology
in the amount of an aggregate of 500,000 shares of our common stock valued at $1,365,000.  
 
The remaining contingent equity rights will
be paid upon the achievement of the following milestones:
 

·750,000 shares of our common stock upon the first new drug application acceptance by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA,
for KRX-0401;


·1,750,000 shares of our common stock upon the first FDA approval of KRX-0401; and

·372,422 shares of our common stock following the first 12-month period that sales of KRX-0401 exceed $100 million.
 

F-16
 

   
In no event will we issue more than 4,000,000
shares of our common stock pursuant to the merger agreement. These 4,000,000 shares include 1,127,578 shares issued or issuable
to date and any contingent shares as described above. Accordingly, the remaining amount of our common stock deliverable to the
former ACCESS Oncology stockholders as milestone consideration will be no more than 2,872,422 shares. The former preferred stockholders
of ACCESS Oncology are not entitled to a share of the milestone consideration. Our stockholders approved the issuance of shares
of our common stock payable as contingent milestone consideration at the 2004 annual meeting of stockholders, which took place
on June 10, 2004.
 
We have accounted for the ACCESS Oncology acquisition
as a purchase. On the date of the acquisition, the excess of the net assets acquired over the purchase price represented negative
goodwill of approximately $4,004,000. Since the negative goodwill was a result of not recognizing contingent consideration (i.e.,
the contingent equity rights), the lesser of the negative goodwill ($4,004,000) and the maximum value of the contingent equity
rights at the date of the acquisition ($34,275,000) was recorded as a liability, thereby eliminating the negative goodwill. The
maximum value of the contingent equity rights at the date of acquisition of $34,275,000 was based on the volume-adjusted weighted
average closing price per share of our common stock measured over the last seven trading days immediately preceding the closing
of the acquisition ($10.15 per share) multiplied by 3,376,855 shares, which consisted of the sum of the unissued amount of our
common stock deliverable to the ACCESS Oncology stockholders as milestone consideration (3,372,422 shares) and to those preferred
stockholders of ACCESS Oncology who have yet to provide the necessary documentation to receive shares of our common stock (4,433
shares). On December 16, 2009, upon the issuance of 500,000 shares of contingent milestone consideration discussed above, the value
of the contingent equity rights was reduced by $1,365,000 to $2,639,000.
 
NOTE 11 - STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 
Preferred Stock
 
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation
authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, with rights senior to those of our common
stock. 
 
Common Stock
 
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation
authorizes the issuance of up to 95,000,000 shares of $0.001 par value common stock.
 
On May 4, 2011, we announced the pricing of
an underwritten registered offering of 7,021,277 shares of our common stock at a price of $4.70 per share for gross proceeds of
approximately $33 million. Net proceeds from this offering were approximately $30.7 million, net of underwriting discounts and
offering expenses of approximately $2.3 million. The shares were sold under a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No.
333-171517) that was previously filed and declared effective by the SEC on January 28, 2011.
 
On September 30, 2009, we completed a registered
direct offering to certain investors of 8,000,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to a total of 2,800,000
shares of our common stock for gross proceeds of approximately $20 million. The common stock and warrants were sold in units, with
each unit consisting of one share of common stock and a warrant to purchase 0.35 of a share of common stock. The purchase price
per unit was $2.50. Subject to certain ownership limitations, the warrants were exercisable at any time on or prior to October
1, 2010, at an exercise price of $2.65 per warrant share. In addition, the placement agent received a warrant to purchase up to
108,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.125 per warrant share, exercisable at any time on or prior to October
1, 2010. Total proceeds from this public offering were approximately $18.4 million, net of offering costs of approximately $1.6
million. As of December 31, 2010, all the warrants were exercised, which provided us with additional proceeds of approximately
$7.3 million, net of offering costs of approximately $0.5 million. The shares and warrants were sold under a shelf registration
statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-161607) filed with the SEC on August 28, 2009, and declared effective by the SEC on September
23, 2009.
 

F-17
 

 
We currently have two shelf registration statements
on Form S-3, filed and declared effective by the SEC, providing for the offering of up to approximately $79 million of common stock
and warrants in the aggregate.
 

·On August 28, 2009, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-161607) and declared effective
by the SEC on September 23, 2009. The registration statement provided for the offering of up to $40 million of our common stock
and warrants. Subsequent to the registered direct offering completed in September 2009, there remains approximately $12 million
of our common stock and warrants available for sale under the shelf registration statement.
 

·On January 3, 2011, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-171517)
that was declared effective by the SEC on January 28, 2011, providing for the offering of up to $100 million of our common stock
and warrants to purchase our common stock. Subsequent to the registered offering in May 2011, there remains approximately $67 million
of our common stock and warrants available for sale under the shelf registration statement.
 
We may offer the securities under our shelf
registration statements from time to time in response to market conditions or other circumstances if we believe such a plan of
financing is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. We believe that these shelf registration statements
provide us with the flexibility to efficiently raise additional capital to finance our operations as needed.
 
Treasury Stock
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we held a
total of 79,948 shares of our common stock in treasury, at a total cost of $357,000.
 
Equity Incentive Plans
 
We have in effect the following stock option
and incentive plans.
 
a. The 1999 Stock Option Plan was adopted in
November 1999. Under the 1999 Stock Option Plan, our board of directors could grant stock-based awards to directors, consultants
and employees. The plan authorizes grants to purchase up to 4,230,000 shares of authorized but unissued common stock. The plan
limits the term of each option, to no more than 25 years from the date of the grant, unless otherwise authorized by the board.
The plan permits the board of directors or a committee appointed by the board to administer the plan. The administrator has the
authority, in its discretion, to determine the terms and conditions of any option granted to a service provider, including the
vesting schedule. As of December 31, 2011, no additional shares of our common stock may be issued under the 1999 Stock Option Plan.
 
b. The 2000 Stock Option Plan was adopted in
June 2000. Under the 2000 Stock Option Plan, the compensation committee of our board of directors is authorized to grant stock-based
awards to directors, consultants and employees. The 2000 plan authorizes grants to purchase up to 4,455,000 shares of authorized
but unissued common stock. The plan limits the term of each option to no more than 10 years from the date of the grant, unless
authorized by the board. As of December 31, 2011, up to an additional 1,206,427 shares may be issued under the 2000 Stock Option
Plan.
 
c. The 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan was adopted
in June 2004 by our stockholders. Under the 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the compensation committee of our board of directors
is authorized to grant stock-based awards to directors, consultants and employees. The 2004 plan authorizes grants to purchase
up to 4,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued common stock. The plan limits the term of each option to no more than 10 years
from the date of grant. As of December 31, 2011, up to an additional 1,874,872 shares may be issued under the 2004 Long-Term Incentive
Plan.
 
d. The 2007 Incentive Plan was adopted in June
2007 by our stockholders. Under the 2007 Incentive Plan, the compensation committee of our board of directors is authorized to
grant stock-based awards to directors, consultants, employees and officers. The 2007 Incentive Plan authorizes grants to purchase
up to 6,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued common stock. The plan limits the term of each option to no more than 10 years
from the date of grant. As of December 31, 2011, up to an additional 270,146 shares may be issued under the 2007 Incentive Plan.
 

e. The 2009 CEO Incentive Plan was adopted in
May 2009. Under the 2009 CEO Incentive Plan, our board of directors granted an option to Ron Bentsur, our Chief Executive Officer,
to purchase up to 600,000 shares of authorized but unissued common stock. The option has a term of 10 years from the date of grant.
The option will vest in equal annual installments over a four-year period or upon an earlier change in control of the Company. 
 

F-18
 

  
Shares
available for the issuance of stock options or other stock-based awards under our stock option and incentive plans were 3,351,445
shares at December 31, 2011.
 
Stock Options
 
The following table summarizes stock option
activity for all plans for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 


  
Number of shares  
Weighted-averageexercise price  
Weighted-averageContractual Term  
AggregateIntrinsicValue 

Outstanding at January 1, 2009 
 9,114,459  
$7.19  
    
   

Granted 
 700,000  
 0.55  
    
   

Exercised 
 (50,000) 
 0.36  
    
$85,300 

Forfeited 
 (159,467) 
 6.75  
    
   

Expired 
 (251,420) 
 11.16  
    
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2009 
 9,353,572  
 6.63  
    
   

Granted 
 417,840  
 3.71  
    
   

Exercised 
 (1,365,140) 
 1.38  
    
$4,943,663 

Forfeited 
 (2,120) 
 9.80  
    
   

Expired 
 (765,749) 
 10.20  
    
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2010 
 7,638,403  
 7.05  
    
   

Granted 
 692,350  
 4.53  
    
   

Exercised 
 (2,382,027) 
 1.30  
    
$6,604,300 

Forfeited 
 (98,600) 
 4.32  
    
   

Expired 
 (2,333,126) 
 13.26  
    
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2011 
 3,517,000  
$6.40  
 6.9  
$2,139,130 

Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011 
 3,473,275  
$6.42  
 6.9  
$2,116,924 

Exercisable at December 31, 2011 
 2,161,774  
$7.42  
 6.2  
$1,476,282 

 
The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2011:
 


  
Options outstanding  
Options exercisable 

Range of exercise prices 
Number outstanding  
Weighted- average
    remaining contractual life (years)  
Weighed- average
    exercise price  
Number exercisable  
Weighed-average exercise
    price 

$ 0.10 - $   3.00 
 1,161,492  
 8.7  
$0.69  
 779,892  
$0.64 

3.70 -      8.90 
 1,140,458  
 7.9  
 5.00  
 341,832  
 6.18 

9.96 -    14.64 
 1,215,050  
 4.2  
 13.17  
 1,040,050  
 12.92 

$ 0.10 - $ 14.64 
 3,517,000  
 6.9  
$6.40  
 2,161,774  
$7.42 

 
Upon the exercise of stock options, we issue
new shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, 235,000 options issued to employees and 50,000 options issued to consultants
are unvested, milestone-based options.
 

F-19
 

 
Restricted Stock
 
Certain employees, directors and consultants
have been awarded restricted stock under the 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2007 Incentive Plan. The time-vesting restricted
stock grants vest primarily over a period of three to four years. The following table summarizes restricted share activity for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 


  
Number of Shares  
Weighted Average
    Grant Date Fair Value  
Aggregate Intrinsic
    Value 

Outstanding at January 1, 2009 
 3,982,572  
$0.36  
   

Granted 
 578,539  
 0.76  
   

Vested 
 (2,707,233) 
 0.32  
$1,325,377 

Forfeited 
 (361,742) 
 0.34  
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2009 
 1,492,136  
 0.59  
$3,730,340 

Granted 
 695,500  
 2.78  
   

Vested 
 (779,308) 
 0.67  
$3,375,859 

Forfeited 
 (7,634) 
 1.41  
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2010 
 1,400,694  
 1.63  
$6,415,179 

Granted 
 206,450  
 4.49  
   

Vested 
 (957,225) 
 1.20  
$4,650,171 

Forfeited 
 (28,338) 
 3.35  
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2011 
 621,581  
$3.16  
$1,572,600 

 
On September 14, 2009, we entered in an employment
agreement with Ron Bentsur, our Chief Executive Officer, which was amended on January 13, 2012. The agreement, as amended, terminates
on May 20, 2014, subject to certain early termination events. As of December 31, 2011, Mr. Bentsur has been granted a total
of 350,000 shares of restricted stock based on the achievement of certain milestone awards described in his employment agreement.
In addition, as of December 31, 2011, Mr. Bentsur has the opportunity to earn certain milestone awards as follows:
 
(1) 400,000 shares of restricted stock will
be granted to Mr. Bentsur upon the first to occur of (a) our filing of an accepted new drug application, or NDA, with the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration for Zerenex or Perifosine, or (b) our outlicensing of Zerenex or Perifosine in the U.S. to a third
party. Such restricted stock will vest in equal installments over each of the first three anniversaries of the date of grant
provided that Mr. Bentsur remains an employee during such vesting period. This milestone #1 may be achieved with respect to
NDAs or qualifying outlicenses for multiple indications of the same product, but not for subsequent outlicenses of the product
relating to an indication for which the milestone is met. Upon achievement of milestone #2 below with respect to a product, the
restricted stock granted for one indication of the product under milestone #1 above will vest in full.
 
(2) 500,000 shares of restricted stock will
be granted to Mr. Bentsur, upon the first to occur of (a) our first commercial sale of Zerenex or Perifosine in the U.S. off an
approved NDA, (b) our receipt of the first royalty upon the commercial sale of Zerenex or Perifosine in the U.S. by a partner to
whom we have sold exclusive or non-exclusive commercial rights, or (c) our complete outlicensing of the entire product rights of
Zerenex or Perifosine in the U.S. Such restricted stock will vest on the first anniversary of the date of grant provided that
Mr. Bentsur remains an employee during such vesting period.
 
(3) 100,000 shares of restricted stock will
be granted to Mr. Bentsur upon each event of our outlicensing Zerenex in a foreign market, other than Japan, resulting in a greater
than $10 million non-refundable cash payment to us with a gross deal value to us of at least $50 million. Such restricted
stock will vest in equal installments over each of the first three anniversaries of the date of grant provided that Mr. Bentsur
remains an employee during such vesting period.
 


F-20
 

  
Warrants
 
There were no warrants outstanding during the
year ended December 31, 2011. The following table summarizes warrant activity for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 


  
Warrants  
Weighted-averageexercise price  
AggregateIntrinsicValue 

Outstanding at January 1, 2009 
 72,564  
 0.01  
   

Issued 
 2,908,000  
 2.67  
   

Exercised 
 (64,174) 
 0.01  
$134,335 

Expired 
 (8,390) 
 0.01  
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2009 
 2,908,000  
 2.67  
$— 

Issued 
 —  
 —  
   

Exercised 
 (2,908,000) 
 2.67  
$5,550,820 

Canceled 
 —  
 —  
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2010 
 —  
$—  
$— 

 
As discussed above, as part of the registered
direct offering completed in September 2009, we issued warrants to purchase up to 2,800,000 shares of our common stock, all of
which were exercised as of December 31, 2010. The warrants had an exercise price of $2.65 per warrant share. The grant date fair
value was $1.03 per warrant, for a total fair value of $2,877,000, which is included in additional paid-in capital on the consolidated
balance sheet. In addition, we issued to the placement agent in the transaction warrants to purchase up to 108,000 shares of our
common stock at an exercise price of $3.125 per warrant share, all of which were exercised as of December 31, 2010, with a grant
date fair value of $0.93 per warrant. The fair values of the warrants described above were estimated at the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes pricing model.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
The fair value of stock options granted is estimated
at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes pricing model. The expected term of options granted is derived from historical data
and the expected vesting period. Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our common stock. The risk-free interest
rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield for a period consistent with the expected term of the option in effect at the time of
the grant. We have assumed no expected dividend yield, as dividends have never been paid to stock or option holders and will not
be paid for the foreseeable future.
 


Black-Scholes Option Valuation Assumptions 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Risk-free interest rates 
 1.4% 
 1.7% 
 2.0%

Dividend yield 
 —  
 —  
 — 

Volatility 
 115.0% 
 126.8% 
 123.7%

Weighted-average expected term 
 4.0 years  
 4.0 years  
 4.7 years 

 
The weighted average grant date fair value of
options granted was $3.43, $2.96 and $0.44 per option for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We used
historical information to estimate forfeitures within the valuation model. As of December 31, 2011, there was $2.0 million and
$1.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options and restricted stock, respectively, which
is expected to be recognized over weighted-average periods of 2.0 years and 1.7 years, respectively. These amounts do not include,
as of December 31, 2011, 285,000 options outstanding which are milestone-based and vest upon certain corporate milestones, such
as FDA approval of our drug candidates, market capitalization targets, and change in control. Stock-based compensation will be
measured and recorded if and when a milestone occurs.
 
On April 23, 2009, our Board of Directors voted
to terminate the employment of Michael S. Weiss as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (see Note 1). Under the terms of Mr.
Weiss’ employment agreement, 1,800,000 shares of restricted stock vested and all of Mr. Weiss’ outstanding stock options
vested and remained exercisable for two years following termination. In the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded approximately
$660,000 in non-cash compensation expense (general and administrative) associated with the equity modifications of Mr. Weiss’
outstanding stock options and shares of restricted stock.
 


F-21
 

 

The following table summarizes stock-based compensation
expense information about stock options and restricted stock for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
  


  
Year ended December 31, 

(in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Stock-based compensation expense associated with restricted stock (1) 
$1,044  
$1,584  
$1,220 

Stock-based compensation expense associated with option grants (2) 
 1,048  
 889  
 1,880 

  
$2,092  
$2,473  
$3,100 

 

(1)Includes $396,000 of non-cash compensation expense in the year ended December 31, 2009, related to equity modifications of
restricted stock issued to our previous Chief Executive Officer, who was terminated in April 2009.

(2)Includes $264,000 of non-cash compensation expense in the year ended December 31, 2009, related to equity modifications of
stock options issued to our previous Chief Executive Officer, who was terminated in April 2009.
 
NOTE 12 – INCOME TAXES
 
We account
for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences
between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that
will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is established when necessary to reduce deferred
tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, management reviews both positive
and negative evidence, including current and historical results of operations, future income projections and the overall prospects
of our business. Based upon management's assessment of all available evidence, we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that
the deferred tax assets will not be realizable; and therefore, a valuation allowance is established. The valuation allowance for
deferred tax assets was $128.0 million and $141.4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 
As of
December 31, 2011, we have U.S. net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL’s”) of approximately $323.6 million, of
which approximately $45.9 million were derived from certain stock option exercises and any such benefit realized will be credited
to additional paid in capital. For income tax purposes, these NOL’s will expire in the years 2019 through 2030. Due to our
various equity transactions, the utilization of certain NOL’s could be subject to annual limitations imposed by Internal
Revenue Code Section 382 relating to the change of control provision and/or the separate return limitation year losses limitation.

 
Income tax expense differed from amounts computed
by applying the US federal income tax rate of 34% to pretax loss as follows:
 


  
For the year ended December 31, 

(in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

(Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations 
$(28,369) 
$(20,451) 
$10,482 

  
    
    
   

Computed “expected” tax (benefit) expense 
 (9,645) 
 (7,158) 
 3,670 

  
    
    
   

(Decrease) increase in income taxes resulting from: 
    
    
   

Expected (benefit) expense from state & local taxes 
 (925) 
 (1,650) 
 846 

Stock option expiration 
 5,872  
 (—) 
 (—)

Deferred impact rate change 
 19,072  
  (—) 
 4,876 

Permanent differences 
 (147) 
 (153) 
 (125)

Other 
 (2) 
 (4) 
 83 

Prior year true-up 
 (829) 
 652  
 (658)

  
    
    
   

Change in the balance of the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets allocated to income tax expense 
 (13,396) 
 8,313  
 (8,692)

  
$—  
$—  
$— 

 
The significant components of deferred income
tax expense (benefit) attributable to loss from operations are as follows:
 


  
For the year ended December 31, 

(in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Deferred tax expense (benefit) 
$13,396  
$(8,313) 
$8,520 

Federal deferred tax benefit relating to the exercise of stock options 
 (—) 
 (—) 
 172 

(Decrease) increase in the valuation allowance for deferred tax asset 
 (13,396) 
 8,313  
 (8,692)

  
$—  
$—  
$— 

 

F-22
 

 
The tax effects of temporary differences that
give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are presented
below.
 


(in thousands) 
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

  
   
  

Deferred tax assets (liabilities): 
    
   

Net operating loss carryforwards 
$120,580  
$128,130 

Non-cash compensation 
 4,445  
 11,483 

Unrealized / realized loss on securities 
 1,164  
 1,359 

Research and development 
 1,332  
 — 

Intangible assets due to different amortization methods 
 262  
 371 

Accrued expenses 
 186  
 — 

Other temporary differences 
 16  
 38 

Deferred tax asset, excluding valuation allowance 
 127,985  
 141,381 

  
    
   

Less valuation allowance 
 (127,985) 
 (141,381)

Net deferred tax assets 
$—  
$— 

 
We file income tax returns in the U.S federal
and various state and local jurisdictions. For federal and state income tax purposes, the 2008, 2009 and 2010 tax years remain
open for examination under the normal three year statute of limitations. The statute of limitations for income tax audits in the
U.S. will commence upon utilization of net operating losses and will expire three years from the filing of the tax return.
 
There was no accrual for interest and penalties
related to uncertain tax positions for 2011, 2010 and 2009. We do not believe that there will be a material change in our
unrecognized tax positions over the next twelve months. All of the unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would be offset
by the valuation allowance.
 
NOTE 13 – INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME, NET
 
The components of interest and other income,
net are as follows:
 


  
For the year ended December 31, 

(in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Interest income 
$159  
$148  
$315 

Other income 
 221  
 730  
 247 

(Loss) gain on sale of auction rate securities 
 —  
 (82) 
 173 

Impairment expense of auction rate securities 
 —  
 (32) 
 (68)

  
$380  
$764  
$667 

 
In 2010 and 2009, we recorded impairment charges
totaling $32,000 and $68,000 respectively, for other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of our prior investments in auction
rate securities (see Note 3 – Investment Securities, and Note 4 – Fair Value Measurements). Other income consists of
rental income from the sublease of a portion of our leased space and a one-time grant in the amount of $489,000 received in November
2010 under The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 for our drug candidates, KRX-0401 (perifosine) and Zerenex (ferric
citrate).
 
 

F-23
 

   
NOTE 14 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Research & Development Agreements
 
We have entered into various research and development
agreements (relating to our development of KRX-0401 and Zerenex)
under which we are obligated to make payments of approximately $13,439,000 through 2013. The following table shows future
research and development payment obligations by period as of December 31, 2011.
 


(in thousands) 
2012  
2013  
2014  
2015  
2016 

Research and development agreements 
$9,251  
$4,188  
 —  
 —  
 — 

 
Most of the commitments in the table above are
contingent upon our continuing development of our drug candidates.
 
Leases
 
In August 2010, we signed an amendment to the
lease on our corporate and executive office located in New York City extending its term through September 30, 2013. We also executed
an amendment to our office sharing agreement with a third party for a portion of our leased space through September 29, 2013.
 
Total rental expense was approximately $538,000,
$537,000 and $540,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. We recognized sublet income of $221,000,
$241,000 and $247,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 related to office sharing agreements.
 
Future minimum lease commitments as of December
31, 2011, in the aggregate total approximately $956,000 through September 2013. The following table shows future minimum lease
commitments by period as of December 31, 2011.
 


(in thousands) 
2012  
2013  
2014  
2015  
2016 

Operating leases 
$526  
$430  
 —  
 —  
 — 

 
The sublet income is not included as an offset
to our operating lease obligations in the table above.
 
Royalty and Contingent Milestone Payments
 
We have licensed the patent rights to our drug
candidates from others. These license agreements require us to make contingent
milestone payments to certain of our licensors. In addition, under these agreements, we must pay royalties on sales of products
resulting from licensed technologies.
 
We have undertaken to make contingent milestone
payments to certain of our licensors of up to approximately $25.0 million over the life of the licenses, of which approximately
$22.0 million will be due upon or following regulatory approval of the licensed drugs. We have also committed to pay to the former
stockholders of ACCESS Oncology certain contingent equity rights (up to 2,872,422 shares of our common stock) if KRX-0401 meets
certain development and sales milestones. The contingent equity rights have been recognized as a non-current liability on the consolidated
balance sheet. See Note 10 – Contingent Equity Rights. The uncertainty relating to the timing of the commitments described
in this paragraph prevents us from including them in the tables above.
 
NOTE 15 - LITIGATION
 
In March 2010, we settled a dispute with ICON
Central Laboratories (“ICON”), the central laboratory we used for the clinical development of Sulonex (sulodexide),
concerning certain fees related mainly to the provision of storage services pursuant to a series of service agreements. ICON was
claiming that we owed it $816,647 in unpaid invoices, much of which was made up of charges for annual storage fees incurred after
the effective date of termination of the agreements. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we paid ICON $400,000 in settlement
of all claims, which, at December 31, 2009, was included in accounts payable and accrued expenses on our consolidated balance sheet.
 
In October 2009, we filed a statement of claim
with the Financial Institution Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, to commence an arbitration proceeding against an SEC registered
broker-dealer. In this arbitration proceeding, we seek damages arising from that broker-dealer’s recommendations and
purchases of auction rate securities for our cash management account. The claim will be determined by a panel of three FINRA
arbitrators. In January 2010, the broker-dealer filed an answer to the statement of claim and denied liability. The hearing
concerning our claims against the broker-dealer commenced in October 2011, and is scheduled to be completed in March 2012.
 

F-24
 

 
NOTE 16 – QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 


  
2011 

  
Mar. 31  
June 30  
Sept. 30  
Dec. 31 

  
(in thousands, except per share data) 

Revenue: 
    
    
    
   

License revenue 
$—  
$5,000  
$—  
$— 

  
    
    
    
   

Total revenue 
 —  
 5,000  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
   

Operating expenses: 
    
    
    
   

Research and development: 
    
    
    
   

Non-cash compensation 
 259  
 205  
 152  
 187 

Other research and development 
 4,618  
 6,295  
 8,620  
 6,676 

Total research and development 
 4,877  
 6,500  
 8,772  
 6,863 

  
    
    
    
   

General and administrative: 
    
    
    
   

Non-cash compensation 
 314  
 314  
 320  
 341 

Other general and administrative 
 1,284  
 1,404  
 1,263  
 1,497 

Total general and administrative 
 1,598  
 1,718  
 1,583  
 1,838 

  
    
    
    
   

Total operating expenses 
 6,475  
 8,218  
 10,355  
 8,701 

  
    
    
    
   

Operating loss 
 (6,475) 
 (3,218) 
 (10,355) 
 (8,701)

  
    
    
    
   

Other income 
    
    
    
   

Interest and other income, net 
 70  
 122  
 108  
 80 

Income taxes 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Loss from continuing operations 
 (6,405) 
 (3,096) 
 (10,247) 
 (8,621)

  
    
    
    
   

Gain from discontinued operations 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 246 

Net loss 
$(6,405) 
$(3,096) 
$(10,247) 
$(8,375)

  
    
    
    
   

Basic net loss per common share 
    
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
 (0.10) 
 (0.05) 
 (0.15) 
 (0.12)

Discontinued operations 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —*

Basic net loss per common share 
$(0.10) 
$(0.05) 
$(0.15) 
$(0.12)

  
    
    
    
   

Diluted net loss per common share 
    
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
 (0.10) 
 (0.05) 
 (0.15) 
 (0.12)

Discontinued operations 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —*

Diluted net loss per common share 
$(0.10) 
$(0.05) 
$(0.15) 
$(0.12)

 
*Amount less than one cent.
 

F-25
 

 


  
2010 

  
Mar. 31  
June 30  
Sept. 30  
Dec. 31 

  
(in thousands, except per share data) 

Operating expenses: 
    
    
    
   

Research and development: 
    
    
    
   

Non-cash compensation 
 242  
 434  
 322  
 238 

Other research and development 
 2,554  
 3,129  
 3,901  
 4,144 

Total research and development 
 2,796  
 3,563  
 4,223  
 4,382 

  
    
    
    
   

General and administrative: 
    
    
    
   

Non-cash compensation 
 407  
 261  
 291  
 278 

Other general and administrative 
 898  
 1,356  
 1,419  
 1,341 

Total general and administrative 
 1,305  
 1,617  
 1,710  
 1,619 

  
    
    
    
   

Total operating expenses 
 4,101  
 5,180  
 5,933  
 6,001 

  
    
    
    
   

Operating loss 
 (4,101) 
 (5,180) 
 (5,933) 
 (6,001)

  
    
    
    
   

Other income 
    
    
    
   

Interest and other income, net 
 86  
 26  
 85  
 567 

Income taxes 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Loss from continuing operations 
 (4,015) 
 (5,154) 
 (5,848) 
 (5,434)

  
    
    
    
   

Gain from discontinued operations 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 120 

Net loss 
$(4,015) 
$(5,154) 
$(5,848) 
$(5,314)

  
    
    
    
   

Basic net loss per common share 
    
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
 (0.07) 
 (0.09) 
 (0.10) 
 (0.09)

Discontinued operations 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —*

Basic net loss per common share 
$(0.07) 
$(0.09) 
$(0.10) 
$(0.09)

  
    
    
    
   

Diluted net loss per common share 
    
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
 (0.07) 
 (0.09) 
 (0.10) 
 (0.09)

Discontinued operations 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —*

Diluted net loss per common share 
$(0.07) 
$(0.09) 
$(0.10) 
$(0.09)

 
*Amount less than one cent.
 

F-26
 

 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 2, 2012
 


 
KERYX BIOPHARMACEUTICALS, INC.

 
 

 
By:
/s/ Ron Bentsur

 
 
Ron Bentsur

 
 
Chief Executive Officer and Director

 
POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person
whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints each of Ron Bentsur and James F. Oliviero, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact
and agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities,
to sign any or all amendments to this annual report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents
in connection therewith, with the SEC, granting unto said attorney-in-fact and agent, full power and authority to do and perform
each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes
as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact and agent or any of his substitutes,
may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Form 10-K has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant on March
2, 2012, and in the capacities indicated:
 


Signatures
 
Title

 
 
 

/s/ Ron Bentsur
 
Chief Executive Officer and Director

Ron Bentsur
 
 (principal executive officer)

 
 
 

/s/ James F. Oliviero
 
Chief Financial Officer

James F. Oliviero, CFA
 
 (principal financial and accounting officer)

 
 
 

/s/ Michael P. Tarnok
 
Chairman of the Board of Directors

Michael P. Tarnok
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Kevin Cameron
 
Director

Kevin Cameron
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Joseph Feczko, M.D
 
Director

Joseph Feczko, M.D
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Senator Wyche Fowler, Jr.
 
Director

Senator Wyche Fowler, Jr.
 
 

 
 
 

/s/ Jack Kaye
 
Director

Jack Kaye
 
 

 

 
 

 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 


Exhibit
 

Number
Exhibit Description

 
 

10.20
Change in Control Agreement with James F. Oliviero dated October 31, 2011, as amended on November 3, 2011.

 
 

21.1
List of subsidiaries of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.

 
 

23.1
Consent of UHY LLP.

 
 

24.1
Power of Attorney of Director and Officers of Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (included herein).

 
 

31.1 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, dated March 2, 2012. 

 
 

31.2 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, dated March 2, 2012. 

 
 

32.1 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, dated March 2, 2012. 

 
 

32.2 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, dated March 2, 2012. 

 
 

101
The following financial information from Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i)  Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Loss (Income), (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

 
 

 




