
10-K
1
v328861_10k.htm
FORM 10-K






 
 

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 

 
FORM 10-K
 


S
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 
For the Fiscal Year Ended September 30,
2012
 


£
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 
For the Transition Period from                                to        
                        
 
Commission File Number 000-50924
 

 
 

BEACON ROOFING SUPPLY, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)
 


Delaware
 
36-4173371

(State or other jurisdiction of
 
(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)
 
Identification No.)

 
Address of principal executive offices:
One Lakeland Park Drive, Peabody, MA 01960
 
Registrant's telephone number, including
area code: (978) 535-7668
 
Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b)
of the Act:
 
Title of each class
Common Stock, $.01 par value
 
Name of each exchange on which registered:
  The NASDAQ Global Select Market
 
Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g)
of the Act:
 
None
 

 
 

        Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes 
x  No  ¨
 
        Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes 
¨  No 
x
 
        Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes 
x  No  ¨
 
        Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  x
YES   ¨  
NO
 
        Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x
 
        Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company. See definition of “large accelerated filer," “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company”
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
 


Large accelerated filer  x
Accelerated filer   ¨

 
 

Non-accelerated filer    ¨ (do not check if a smaller reporting company)
Smaller reporting company  ¨

 
        Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes 
¨  No 
x
 
        The aggregate
market value of the voting stock (common stock) held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of the end of the second quarter ended
March 31, 2012 was $1,195,897,272.
 
        The number of
shares of common stock outstanding as of November 1, 2012 was 47,694,202.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
         The information
required by Part III (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) will be incorporated by reference from the Registrant's definitive
proxy statement (to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A).
 

 
 


 
 

 
Table of Contents
BEACON ROOFING SUPPLY, INC.
 
Index to Annual Report
on Form 10-K
 
Year Ended September 30, 2012
 


PART I
 
 
 
3

Item 1.
 
Business
 
3

Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
 
11

Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
 
13

Item 2.
 
Properties
 
13

Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
14

 
 
 
 
 

PART II
 
 
 
15

Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
15

Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
 
16

Item 7.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
17

Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
35

Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
37

Item 9.
 
Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
62

Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
 
62

Item 9B.
 
Other Information
 
64

 
 
 
 
 

PART III
 
 
 
65

 
 
 
 
 

PART IV
 
 
 
65

Item 15.
 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
65

 

 
 

 
Forward-looking statements
 
                   The
matters discussed in this Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements are based on current management expectations that
involve substantial risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in,
or implied by, these forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly
to historical or current facts. They use words such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could,"
"estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "project," "should,"
"will be," "will continue," "will likely result," "would" and other words and terms of
similar meaning in conjunction with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. You should read statements that
contain these words carefully, because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations
or of our financial position or state other "forward-looking" information.
 
                   We
believe that it is important to communicate our future expectations to our investors. However, there are events in the future that
we are not able to accurately predict or control. The factors listed under Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as any cautionary language
in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially
from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable
assumptions, actual results may differ materially from those in the forward looking statements as a result of various factors,
including, but not limited to, those described under Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
 
                   Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and
regulations of the SEC, we do not have any intention, and do not undertake, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect
events or circumstances arising after the date of this Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise. As a result of these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking
statements included in this Form 10-K or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by or on behalf of us. All forward-looking
statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements.
 

-2-
 

 
PART I
 
    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS
 
Overview
 
                   We
are one of the largest distributors of residential and non-residential roofing materials in the United States and Canada. We also
distribute other complementary building materials, including siding, windows, specialty lumber products and waterproofing systems
for residential and nonresidential building exteriors. We currently operate 224 branches in 38 states and 6 Canadian provinces,
carrying up to 11,000 SKUs and serving approximately 42,000 customers. We are a leading distributor of roofing materials in key
metropolitan markets in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Central Plains, South and Southwest regions of the United States
and across Canada.
 
                   For
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 (“fiscal year 2012” or “2012”), residential roofing products comprised
50% of our sales, non-residential roofing products accounted for 37% of our sales, and siding, waterproofing systems, windows,
specialty lumber and other exterior building products provided the remaining 13% of our sales. Approximately 93% of our net sales
were in the United States.
 
We also provide our customers a comprehensive array
of value-added services, including:
 


 
•
advice and assistance to contractors throughout the construction process, including product identification, specification and technical support;

 
•
job site delivery, rooftop loading and logistical services;

 
•
tapered insulation design and layout services;

 
•
metal fabrication and related metal roofing design and layout services;

 
•
trade credit; and

 
•
marketing support, including project leads for contractors.

 
                   We
believe the additional services we provide strengthen our relationships with our customers and distinguish us from our competition.
The vast majority of orders require at least some of these services. Our ability to provide these services efficiently and reliably
can save contractors time and money. We also believe that our value-added services enable us to achieve attractive gross profit
margins on our product sales. We have earned a reputation for a high level of product availability and experienced and professional
employees who provide high-quality service, including timely, accurate and safe delivery of products.
 
                   Our
diverse customer base generally includes a significant portion of the residential and non-residential roofing contractors in most
of the markets in which we operate. These roofing contractors are typically involved on a local basis in the replacement, or re-roofing,
component of the roofing industry. We utilize a branch-based operating model in which branches maintain local customer relationships
but benefit from our centralized functions such as information technology, accounting, financial reporting, credit, purchasing,
legal and tax services. This business model allows us to provide customers with specialized products and personalized local services
tailored to a geographic region, while benefiting from the resources and scale efficiencies of a national distributor.
 
We have achieved our growth through a combination
of twenty-two strategic and complementary acquisitions between fiscal years 2002 and 2012, opening new branch locations, acquiring
branches and broadening our product offering. We have grown from $549.9 million in sales in fiscal year 2002 to $2.044 billion
in sales in fiscal year 2012, which represents a ten-year compound annual growth rate of 14.0%.  Our internal growth,
which includes growth from existing and newly opened branches but excludes growth from acquired branches, averaged 4.7% per annum
over the same period. Acquired branches are excluded from internal growth measures until they have been under our ownership for
at least four full fiscal quarters at the start of the reporting period. During this period, we opened thirty-seven new branch
locations (of which we have only closed three), while our same store sales increased an average of 1.5% per annum. Same store sales
are defined as the aggregate sales from branches open for the entire comparable annual periods. Income from operations has increased
from $29.4 million in fiscal year 2002 to $143.7 million in fiscal year 2012, which represents a compound annual growth
rate of 17.2%. We believe that our proven business model can continue to deliver industry-leading growth and operating profit margins.
 
           
         In fiscal year 2012, our sales and income from operations increased 12.5%
and 38.5%, respectively, over fiscal year 2011. We had 251 business days in fiscal year 2012, while fiscal year 2011 had 254 days.
We acquired twenty-two branches, opened four new branches and closed two branches during fiscal year 2012.
 

-3-
 

 
Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our website at www.beaconroofingsupply.com
as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 
 
History
 
               Our
predecessor, Beacon Sales Company, Inc., was founded in Charlestown, Massachusetts (part of Boston) in 1928. In 1984, when
our former Chairman Andrew Logie acquired Beacon Sales Company with other investors, Beacon operated three distribution facilities
and generated approximately $16 million in annual revenue. In August 1997, Code, Hennessy & Simmons III, L.P.,
a Chicago-based private equity fund, and certain members of management, purchased Beacon Sales Company to use it as a platform
to acquire leading regional roofing materials distributors throughout the United States and Canada. At the time of the purchase
by Code Hennessy and management, Beacon Sales Company operated seven branches in New England and generated approximately $72 million
of annual revenue, primarily from the sale of non-residential roofing products. Since 1997 and through fiscal year 2012, we made
twenty-eight strategic and complementary acquisitions and opened forty-one new branches (of which we only closed three). We have
also expanded our product offerings to offer more residential roofing products and complementary exterior building materials and
related services. Our strategic acquisitions, new branch openings, and product line extensions have increased the diversity of
both our customer base and our local market focus, while generating cost savings through increased purchasing power and lower overhead
expenses as a percentage of net sales. We completed an initial public offering ("IPO") and became a public company in
September 2004, and completed a follow-on stock offering in December 2005.
 
                   We
were incorporated in Delaware in 1997. Our principal executive offices are located at One Lakeland Park Drive, Peabody, MA 01960
and our telephone number is (978) 535-7668. Our Internet website address is www.beaconroofingsupply.com.
 
U.S. Industry Overview
 
                   The
U.S. roofing market, based upon a 2011 industry report, the latest available to us, and based upon manufacturer sales to distributors
and others, was estimated to be approximately $16.8 billion in 2010 and is projected to grow 7.8% annually through 2015 to
$24.4 billion. We believe this rate of growth is above the range of the stable long-term growth rates in the industry over
the past 40 years.
 
                   The
U.S. roofing market can be separated into two categories: the residential roofing market and the non-residential roofing market.
The residential roofing market accounted for approximately 54.8% of the total U.S. market by unit volume (44.6% of total dollar
demand) in 2010. Through 2015, residential roofing construction in dollars is expected to grow at 11.4%, which is much faster than
the non-residential roofing construction growth rate of 4.4%, as new residential construction is projected to rebound from recent
low levels.
 
                    
Traditionally, over 70% of expenditures in the roofing market are for re-roofing projects, with the balance being for new construction.
Due to the slowdown in both residential and non-residential new construction in recent years, it is estimated that re-roofing represented
over 85% of the expenditures for roofing in 2010. Re-roofing projects are generally considered maintenance and repair expenditures
and are less likely than new construction projects to be postponed during periods of recession or slow economic growth. As a result,
demand for roofing products is less volatile than overall demand for construction products.
 
                   Regional
variations in economic activity influence the level of demand for roofing products across the United States. Of particular importance
are regional differences in the level of new home construction and renovation, since the residential market for roofing products
accounts for approximately 55% of unit demand. Demographic trends, including population growth and migration, contribute to the
regional variations through their influence on regional housing starts and existing home sales.
 
Roofing distributors
 
                   Wholesale
distribution is the dominant distribution channel for both residential and nonresidential roofing products. Wholesale roofing product
distributors serve the important role of facilitating the purchasing relationships between roofing materials manufacturers and
thousands of contractors. Wholesale distributors can maintain localized inventories, extend trade credit, give product advice and
provide delivery and logistics services.
 
                   Despite
some recent consolidation, the roofing materials distribution industry remains highly fragmented. The industry is characterized
by a large number of small and local regional participants. As a result of their small size, many of these distributors lack the
corporate, operating and IT infrastructure required to compete effectively.
 

-4-
 

 
Residential roofing market
 
                   Within
the residential roofing market, the re-roofing market is currently more than six times the size of the new roofing market, accounting
for approximately 86% of the residential roofing unit demand in 2010 compared to a historic long-term rate of about 67%. Over the
next five years, new roofing unit demand is expected to increase from 14% of total demand in 2010 to approximately 24% in 2015,
indicating a 21% growth rate, while annual re-roofing demand is expected to grow at a 6% rate.
 
                   Driving
the demand for re-roofing is an aging U.S. housing stock. Over 60% of the U.S. housing stock was built prior to 1980, with the
median age of U.S. homes being over 35 years old. Asphalt shingles dominate the residential roofing market, with an approximate
84% share, and historically have had an expected average useful life of 15 to 20 years A number of other factors can also
generate re-roofing demand, including one-time weather damage (such as the frequent and damaging hail storms in 2011) and homeowners
looking to upgrade their homes. In addition, sales of existing homes can affect re-roofing demand, as some renovation decisions
are made by sellers preparing their houses for sale and others are made by new owners within the first two years of occupancy.
 
                   Within
the new construction portion of the residential roofing market, housing starts together with larger average roof sizes have supported
prior growth in new residential roofing demand. Although new housing starts were up slightly in 2010 and 2012, they declined during
2006 through 2009, and again in 2011, and the pace could continue at the current historically low levels.
 
Non-residential roofing market
 
                   Demand
in dollars for roofing products used on non-residential buildings is forecast to continue to grow at about historical average rates.
The challenging economic conditions in recent years, including tighter credit markets, caused a slowdown in new commercial projects
and, to a lesser extent, re-roofing projects, and may continue to influence expenditures for non-residential roofing in the near
term.
 
                   In
2010, re-roofing projects represented approximately 84% of the total non-residential demand. As with residential re-roofing, non-residential
re-roofing activity tends to be less cyclical than new construction and depends, in part, upon the types of materials on existing
roofs, their expected lifespan and intervening factors such as wind or water damage.
 
                  The
non-residential roofing market includes an office and commercial market, an industrial market, and an institutional market. Office
and commercial roofing projects is the single largest component of the non-residential roofing market at 51%. Industrial roofing
projects represent 23% of non-residential roofing product sales, while institutional projects and others make up the remaining
26% of non-residential roofing demand.
 
Complementary building products
 
                   Demand
for complementary building products such as siding, windows and doors for both the residential and non-residential markets has
been at historically low levels in recent years, consistent with the downturns in the new construction markets and in the overall
economy. Unlike the roofing industry, demand for these products is more discretionary and influenced much greater by the new construction
markets.
 
                   These
complementary products are a major component of the overall building products market. The U.S. siding market was approximately
$7.0 billion in 2011, while the U.S. window and door industry was approximately $26 billion in 2011, the most recent
information available to us. Both of these markets have been negatively impacted by the low level of new housing starts in recent
years, but are expected to grow at an annual rate of approximately 10% over the next five years.
 
Our Strengths
 
                   We
believe the sales and earnings growth we have achieved over time has been and will continue to be driven by our primary competitive
strengths, which include the following:
 


 
•
National scope combined with regional expertise.     We believe we are the second largest roofing materials distributor in the United States and Canada. We utilize a branch-based operating model in which branches maintain local customer relationships but benefit from centralized functions such as information technology, accounting, financial reporting, credit, purchasing, legal and tax services. This allows us to provide customers with specialized products and personalized local services tailored to a geographic region, while benefiting from the resources and scale efficiencies of a national distributor.

 


 
•
Diversified business model that reduces impact of economic downturns.     We believe that our business is meaningfully protected in an economic downturn because of a high concentration of non-discretionary re-roofing business; the mix of our sales between residential and non-residential products; our geographic and customer diversity; and our financial and operational ability to expand our business and obtain market share.

 

-5-
 

 


 
•
Superior customer service.     We believe that our high level of customer service and support differentiates us from our competitors. We employ experienced salespeople who provide technical advice and assistance in properly identifying products for various applications. We also provide services such as safe and timely job site delivery, logistical support and marketing assistance. We believe that the services provided by our employees improve our customers' efficiency and profitability which, in turn, strengthens our customer relationships.

 


 
•
Strong platform for growth and acquisition.     Over the period from 1997 through 2012, we increased revenue at rates well in excess of the overall growth in the roofing materials distribution industry. We have expanded our business through strategic acquisitions, new branch openings, and the diversification of our product offering. We have generally improved the financial and operating performance of our acquired companies and helped them to grow their businesses following acquisition.

 


 
•
Sophisticated IT platform.     All of our locations, except for one fabrication facility, operate on the same management information systems. We have made a significant investment in our information systems, which we believe are among the most advanced in the roofing distribution industry. These systems provide us with a consistent platform across all of our operations and help us to achieve operating efficiencies in purchasing, pricing and inventory management and a high level of customer service. Our systems have substantial capacity to handle our future growth plans without requiring significant additional investment.

 


 
•
Industry-leading management team.     We believe that our key personnel, including branch managers, regional vice presidents and executive officers, are among the most experienced members of the roofing industry. 

 


 
•
Extensive product offering and strong supplier relationships.     We have a product offering of approximately 11,000 SKUs, representing an extensive assortment of high-quality branded products. We believe that this product offering has been a significant factor in attracting and retaining many of our customers. Because of our significant scale, product expertise and reputation in the markets that we serve, we have established strong ties to the major roofing materials manufacturers and are able to achieve substantial volume discounts.

 
Growth Strategies
 
                   Our
objective is to become the preferred supplier of roofing and other exterior building product materials in the U.S. and Canadian
markets while continuing to increase our revenue base and maximize our profitability. We plan to attain these goals by executing
the following strategies:
 


 
•
Pursue acquisitions of regional market-leading roofing materials distributors.     Acquisitions are an important component of our growth strategy. We believe there are significant opportunities to further grow our business through disciplined, strategic acquisitions. With only a few large, well-capitalized competitors in the industry, we believe we can continue to build on our distribution platform by successfully acquiring additional roofing materials distributors. Between 1998 and 2012, we successfully integrated twenty-eight strategic and complementary acquisitions and there has been an additional acquisition since the end of fiscal year 2012.

 


 
•
Expand through new branch openings.     Significant opportunities exist to expand or intensify our geographic focus by opening additional branches in contiguous or existing regions. Since 1997, we have successfully entered numerous markets through greenfield expansion. Our typical strategy with respect to greenfield opportunities is to open branches: (1) within our existing markets; (2) where existing customers have expanded into new markets; or (3) in areas that have limited or no acquisition candidates and are a good fit with our business model. At times, we have acquired small distributors with one to three branches to fill in existing regions.

 


 
•
Expand product and service offerings.     We believe that continuing to increase the breadth of our product line and customer services are effective methods of increasing sales to current customers and attracting new customers. We work closely with customers and suppliers to identify new building products and services, including varieties of windows, siding, waterproofing systems, insulation and metal fabrication. In addition, we believe we can expand our business by introducing products currently only sold in certain of our markets into some of our other markets. We also believe we can expand particular product sales that are stronger in certain of our markets into markets where those products have not sold as well (e.g., expanding nonresidential roofing sales into markets that sell mostly residential roofing).

 

-6-
 

 
Products and Services
 
Products
 
                   The
ability to provide a broad range of products is essential in roofing materials distribution. We carry one of the most extensive
arrays of high-quality branded products in the industry, enabling us to deliver a wide variety of products to our customers on
a timely basis. We are able to fulfill approximately 98% of our warehouse orders through our in-stock inventory as a result of
the breadth and depth of our inventory at our branches. Our product portfolio includes residential and non-residential roofing
products as well as complementary building products such as siding, windows and specialty lumber products. Our product lines are
designed primarily to meet the requirements of both residential and non-residential roofing contractors.
 


Product Portfolio

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Residential roofing products
 
Non-residential roofing products
 
Complementary building products

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Siding
 
Windows/Doors

Asphalt shingles
 
Single-ply roofing
 
Vinyl siding
 
Vinyl windows

Synthetic slate and tile
 
Asphalt
 
Red, white and yellow
 
Aluminum windows

Clay tile
 
Metal
 
    cedar siding
 
Wood windows

Concrete tile
 
Modified bitumen
 
Fiber cement siding
 
Wood doors

Slate
 
Built-up roofing
 
Soffits
 
Patio doors

Nail base insulation
 
Cements and coatings
 
House wraps
 
Skylights

Metal roofing
 
Insulation—flat stock
 
Vapor barriers
 
 

Felt
 
    and tapered
 
Stone veneer
 
 

Wood shingles and
 
Commercial fasteners
 
 
 
 

    shakes
 
Metal edges and
 
Other
 
Specialty Lumber

Nails and fasteners
 
    flashings
 
Waterproofing systems
 
Redwood

Metal edgings and
 
Skylights, smoke vents
 
Building insulation
 
Red cedar decking

    flashings
 
    and roof hatches
 
Air barrier systems
 
Pressure treated lumber

Prefabricated flashings
 
Sheet metal, including
 
Gypsum
 
Fire treated plywood

Ridges and soffit vents
 
    copper, aluminum
 
Moldings
 
Synthetic decking

Gutters and
 
        and steel
 
Patio covers
 
PVC trim boards

    downspouts
 
Other accessories
 
Cultured stone
 
Synthetic railing

Other accessories
 
 
 
 
 
Millwork

 
 
 
 
 
 
Custom millwork

 
                   The
products that we distribute are supplied by the industry's leading manufacturers of high-quality roofing materials and related
products, such as Alcoa, Atlas, BPCO, Carlisle, CertainTeed, Continental Materials, Dow, Firestone, GAF Materials, IKO, James Hardie,
Johns Manville, Mid-States Asphalt, Owens Corning, Simonton, Tamko and Revere Copper.
 
                   In
the residential market, asphalt shingles comprise the largest share of the products we sell. We believe that we have also developed
a specialty niche in the residential roofing market by distributing products such as high-end shingles, copper gutters and metal
roofing products, as well as specialty lumber products for residential applications, including redwood, white and red cedar shingles,
and red cedar siding. Additionally, we distribute gutters, downspouts, tools, nails, vinyl siding, windows, decking and related
exterior shelter products to meet the needs of our roofing customers.
 
     In
the non-residential market, single-ply roofing systems comprise the largest share of our products. Our single-ply roofing systems
consist primarily of Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer (synthetic rubber) or EPDM and Thermoplastic Olefin or TPO, along with other
roofing materials and related components. In addition to the broad range of single-ply roofing components, we sell the insulation
required in most non-residential roofing applications, such as the popular tapered insulation. Our remaining non-residential products
include metal roofing and flashings, fasteners, fabrics, coatings, roof drains, modified bitumen, built-up roofing and asphalt.
 

-7-
 

 
Services
 
                    We
emphasize superior value-added services to our customers. We employ a knowledgeable staff of salespeople. Our sales personnel possess
in-depth knowledge of roofing materials and applications and are capable of providing technical advice and assistance to contractors
throughout the re-roofing and construction process. In particular, we support our customers with the following value-added services:


 
•
advice and assistance on product identification, specification and technical support;

 
•
timely job site delivery, rooftop loading and logistical services;

 
•
tapered insulation design and related layout services;

 
•
metal fabrication and related metal roofing design and layout services;

 
•
trade credit; and

 
•
marketing support, including project leads for contractors.

 
Customers
 
                   Our
diverse customer base consists of approximately 42,000 contractors, home builders, building owners, and other resellers primarily
in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Southeast, Southwest, Mid-West and West regions of the United States, as well as across Canada.
Our typical customer base varies by end market, with relatively small contractors in the residential market and small to large-sized
contractors in the non-residential market. To a lesser extent, our customer base in a market can include general contractors, retailers
and building materials suppliers.
 
                   As
evidenced by the fact that a significant number of our customers have relied on us or our predecessors as their vendor of choice
for decades, we believe that we have strong customer relationships that our competitors cannot easily displace or replicate. No
single customer accounts for more than 2% of our revenues.
 
Sales and Marketing
 
Sales strategy
 
                   Our
sales strategy is to provide a comprehensive array of high-quality products and superior value-added services to residential and
non-residential roofing contractors reliably, accurately and on time. We fulfill approximately 98% of our warehouse orders through
our in-stock inventory as a result of the breadth and depth of our inventory maintained at our local branches. We believe that
our focus on providing both superior value-added services and accurate and rapid order fulfillment enables us to attract and retain
customers.
 
Sales organization
 
                   We
have attracted and retained an experienced sales force of about 1,120 people who are responsible for generating revenue at the
local branch level. The expertise of our salespeople helps us to increase sales to existing customers and add new customers.
 
                   Each
of our branches is headed by a branch manager, who also functions as the branch's sales manager. In addition, each branch generally
employs one to four outside salespeople and one to five inside salespeople who report to their branch manager. Branches that focus
primarily on the residential market typically staff a larger number of outside salespeople.
 
                   The
primary responsibilities of our outside salespeople are to prospect for new customers and increase sales to existing customers.
One of the ways our outside salespeople accomplish these objectives is by reviewing information from our proprietary LogicTrack
software system, which extracts job and bid information from construction reports and other industry news services. The system
extracts information on construction projects in our local markets from those industry services. Once a construction project is
identified, our design and estimating team creates job quotes, which, along with pertinent bid and job information, are readily
available to our salespeople through LogicTrack. Our outside salespeople then contact potential customers in an effort to
solicit their interest in participating with us in the identified project. Throughout this process, LogicTrack maintains a
record of quoting activity, due dates, and other data to allow tracking of the projects and efficient follow-up. By seeking
a contractor to "partner with” on a bid, we increase the likelihood that such contractor will purchase their roofing
materials and related products from us in the event that the contractor is selected for the project.
 
                   To
complement our outside sales force, we have built an experienced and technically proficient inside sales staff that provides vital
product expertise to our customers. Our inside sales force is responsible for fielding incoming orders, providing pricing quotations
and responding to customer inquiries.
 

-8-
 

 
                   In
addition to our outside and inside sales forces, we represent certain manufacturers for particular manufacturers' products. Currently,
we have developed relationships with Carlisle, Johns Manville, Owens Corning and Firestone on this basis and employ 38 representatives
who act as liaisons (on behalf of property owners, architects, specifiers and consultants) between these roofing materials manufacturers
and professional contractors.
 
Marketing
 
                   In
order to capitalize on established customer relationships and locally developed brands, we have maintained the trade names of most
of the businesses that we have acquired. These trade names—such as Alabama Roofing Supply, Beacon Roofing Supply Canada Company,
Beacon Sales Company, Best Distributing Company, Coastal Metal Service, Dealer's Choice, GLACO, Groupe Bedard, Entrepot de la Toiture,
JGA Beacon, Lafayette Wood Works, North Coast Commercial Roofing Systems, Mississippi Roofing Supply, Pacific Supply Company, Quality
Roofing Supply Company, Roof Depot, RSM Supply, Roofing and Sheet Metal Supply, Shelter Distribution, Southern Roof Center, The
Roof Center, West End Roofing Siding and Windows, West End Lumber Company,  Louisiana Roofing Supply, Posi-Slope, Posi-Pentes,
Wholesale Roofing Supply, Enercon Products, The Roofing Connection, Fowler & Peth, Cassady Pierce Company, Structural Materials
and Contractors Roofing & Supply Co.—are well-known in the local markets in which the respective branches compete and
are associated with high-quality products and customer service.
 
                   As
a supplement to the efforts of our sales force, each of our branches communicates with residential and non-residential contractors
in their local markets through newsletters, direct mail and the Internet. In order to build and strengthen relationships with customers
and vendors, we sponsor and promote our own regional trade shows, which feature general business and roofing seminars for our customers
and product demonstrations by our vendors. In addition, we attend numerous industry trade shows throughout the regions in which
we compete, and we are an active member of the National Roofing Contractors Association, as well as certain regional contractors'
associations.
 
Purchasing and Suppliers
 
                   Our
status as a leader in our core geographic markets, as well as our reputation in the industry, has allowed us to forge strong relationships
with numerous manufacturers of roofing materials and related products, including Alcoa, Atlas, BPCO, Carlisle, CertainTeed, Continental
Materials, Dow, Firestone, GAF Materials, IKO, James Hardie, Johns Manville, Mid-States Asphalt, Owens Corning, Simonton, Tamko
and Revere Copper.
 
                   We
are viewed by our suppliers as a key distributor due to our industry expertise, past growth and profitability, significant market
share, financial strength, and the substantial volume of products that we distribute. We have significant relationships with more
than 150 suppliers and maintain multiple supplier relationships for each product line.
 
                   We
manage the procurement of products through our national headquarters and regional offices, allowing us to take advantage of both
our scale and local market conditions. We believe this enables us to purchase products more economically than most of our competitors.
Product is shipped directly by the manufacturers to our branches or customers.
 
Operations
 
Facilities
 
                   Our
network of 224 branches serves metropolitan areas in 38 states and 6 Canadian provinces. This network has enabled us to effectively
and efficiently serve a broad customer base and to achieve a leading market position in each of our core geographic markets.
 
Operations
 
                   Our
branch-based model provides each location with a significant amount of autonomy to operate within the parameters of our overall
business model. Operations at each branch are tailored to meet local customer needs. Depending on the market, branches carry from
about 2,000 to 11,000 SKUs.
 
                   Branch
managers are responsible for sales, pricing and staffing activities, and have full operational control of customer service and
deliveries. We provide our branch managers with significant incentives that allow them to share in the profitability of their respective
branches as well as in the company as a whole. Personnel at our regional and corporate operations assist the branches with, among
other things, product procurement, credit and safety services, fleet management, information systems support, contract management,
accounting, treasury and legal services, human resources, benefits administration and sales and use tax services.
 

-9-
 

 
Distribution fulfillment process
 
                   Our
distribution fulfillment process is initiated upon receiving a request for a contract job order or direct product order from a
contractor. Under a contract job order, a contractor typically requests roofing or other construction materials and technical support
services. The contractor discusses the project's requirements with a salesperson and the salesperson provides a price quotation
for the package of products and services. Subsequently, the salesperson processes the order and we deliver the products to the
customer's job site.
 
Fleet
 
                   Our
distribution infrastructure supports over 500,000 deliveries annually. To accomplish this, we maintained a dedicated owned fleet
of 723 straight trucks, 262 tractors and 580 trailers as of September 30, 2012. Nearly all of our delivery vehicles are equipped
with specialized equipment, including 813 truck-mounted forklifts, cranes, hydraulic booms and conveyors, which are necessary to
deliver products to rooftop job sites in an efficient and safe manner and in accordance with our customers’ requirements.
 
                   Our
branches typically focus on providing materials to customers who are located within a two-hour radius of their respective facilities.
Our branches generally make deliveries each business day.
 
Management information systems
 
                   We
have fully integrated management information systems across our locations. Acquired businesses are moved to our IT platform as
soon as feasible following acquisition. Our systems support every major internal operational function, except payroll, providing
complete integration of purchasing, receiving, order processing, shipping, inventory management, sales analysis and accounting.
The same databases are shared within the systems, allowing our branches to easily acquire products from other branches or schedule
deliveries by other branches, greatly enhancing our customer service. Our systems also include a sophisticated pricing matrix which
allows us to refine pricing by region, branch, customer and customer type, or even a specific customer project. In addition, our
systems allow us to centrally monitor all branch and regional performance as often as daily. We have centralized many functions
to leverage our growing size, including accounts payable, insurance, payroll, employee benefits, vendor relations, and banking. 
 
                   All
of our branches are connected to our IBM AS400 computer network by secure Internet connections or private data lines. We maintain
a second IBM AS400 as a disaster recovery system, and information is backed up to this system throughout each business day. We
have the capability of electronically switching our domestic operations to the disaster recovery system.
 
                   We
have financial reporting packages for branches and regions that allow them to compare branch by branch financial performance, which
we believe is essential to operating each branch efficiently and more profitably. We also utilize a monthly benchmarking report
that enables comparison of all of our branches' and regions’ performance in 12 critical areas.
 
                   We
place purchase orders electronically with some of our major vendors. The vendors then transmit their invoices electronically to
us. Our system automatically matches these invoices with the related purchase orders and then schedules the associated payment.
We also have the capability to handle customer processing electronically, although most customers prefer ordering through our sales
force.
 
  We completed a “paperless copy”
process in 2012 whereby we scan or receive many financial, credit and other documents into a database for purposes of internal
approvals, online viewing and auditing. Also in 2012, we initiated an Internet portal that allows customers to access their invoice
history and make online payments.
 
Government Regulations
 
                   We
are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local agencies. These agencies include the Environmental Protection
Agency, Department of Transportation, Interstate Commerce Commission, Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Department
of Labor and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with existing applicable
statutes and regulations affecting environmental issues and our employment, workplace health and workplace safety practices.
 
In 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the
majority of the provisions in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Act”). The Act places requirements
on employers to provide a minimum level of benefits to employees and assesses penalties on employers if the benefits do not meet
the required minimum level or if the cost of coverage to employees exceeds affordability thresholds specified in the Act. The minimum
benefits and affordability requirements take effect in 2014. The Act also imposes an excise tax beginning in 2018 on plans whose
average cost exceeds specified amounts. We have analyzed the effects on us from the provisions of the Act and we do not currently
anticipate a significant financial impact.
 

-10-
 

 
Competition
 
                   Although
we are one of the two largest roofing materials distributors in the United States and Canada, the U.S. roofing supply industry
is highly competitive. The vast majority of our competition comes from local and regional roofing supply distributors, and, to
a much lesser extent, other building supply distributors and "big box" retailers. Among distributors, we compete against
a small number of large distributors and many small and local privately-owned distributors. The principal competitive factors in
our business include, but are not limited to, the availability of materials and supplies; technical product knowledge and expertise;
advisory or other service capabilities; pricing of products; and availability of credit and capital. We generally compete on the
basis of the quality of our services, product quality and, to a lesser extent, price. We compete not only for customers within
the roofing supply industry but also for personnel.
 
Employees
 
                   As
of September 30, 2012, we had 2,712 employees, consisting of 806 in sales and marketing, 314 in branch management, including supervisors,
1,216 warehouse workers, helpers and drivers, and 376 general and administrative personnel. Approximately 338 employees were added
in 2012 from our acquisitions. We believe that our employee relations are good. Thirty-four employees were represented by labor
unions as of September 30, 2012.
 
Order Backlog
 
                   Order
backlog is not a material aspect of our business and no material portion of our business is subject to government contracts.
 
Seasonality
 
                   In
general, sales and net income are highest during our first, third and fourth fiscal quarters, which represent the peak months of
construction and re-roofing, especially in our branches in the northern and mid-western regions of the U.S. and in Canada. Our
sales are substantially lower during the second quarter, when we usually incur net losses. These quarterly fluctuations have diminished
as we have diversified further into the southern and western regions of the U.S.
 
Geographic Data
 
                   For
geographic data about our business, please see Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K.
 
 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK
FACTORS
 
                   
You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information included in this Form 10-K
in evaluating us and our business. If any of the events described below occur, our business and financial results could be adversely
affected in a material way. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly.
 
We may not be able to effectively integrate newly acquired
businesses into our operations or achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions.
 
                   Our
growth strategy includes acquiring other distributors of roofing materials and complementary products. Acquisitions involve numerous
risks, including:
 


 
•
unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel;

 
•
diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations;

 
•
unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience;

 
•
potential loss of key employees;

 
•
unforeseen liabilities associated with businesses acquired; and

 
•
inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs.

 
                   As
a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions
and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. These risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions.
 

-11-
 

 
We may not be able to successfully identify acquisition
candidates, which would slow our growth rate.
 
                   We
continually seek additional acquisition candidates in selected markets and from time to time engage in exploratory discussions
with potential candidates. If we are not successful in finding attractive acquisition candidates whom we can acquire on satisfactory
terms, or if we cannot complete acquisitions that we identify, it is unlikely that we will sustain the historical growth rates
of our business.
 
An inability to obtain the products that we distribute
could result in lost revenues and reduced margins and damage relationships with customers.
 
                   We
distribute roofing and other exterior building materials that are manufactured by a number of major suppliers. Although we believe
that our relationships with our suppliers are strong and that we would have access to similar products from competing suppliers
should products be unavailable from current sources, any disruption in our sources of supply, particularly of the most commonly
sold items, could result in a loss of revenues and reduced margins and damage relationships with customers. Supply shortages may
occur as a result of unanticipated demand or production or delivery difficulties. When shortages occur, roofing material suppliers
often allocate products among distributors. 
 
Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and
retain new qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and grow successfully.
 

                   Our future success is highly dependent upon the services of
Robert Buck, Executive Chairman of the Board, and Paul Isabella, President and Chief Executive Officer. Our CFO, David Grace, is
retiring for health reasons on December 31, 2012 and we are actively seeking a replacement. Although we are confident that our
search will yield a highly qualified replacement, in the event that Mr. Grace’s successor is not named by December 31,
2012, we plan to name our Chief Accounting Officer Rick Welker as Acting Chief Financial Officer until Mr. Grace’s successor
is named. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers and key management personnel, including
our regional vice presidents. We do not have key man life insurance covering any of our executive officers. We may not be able
to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management. The loss of any of our executive
officers or other key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, could hurt our ability
to operate and make it difficult to execute our acquisition and internal growth strategies.
 
A change in vendor rebates could
adversely affect our income and gross margins.
 
                   The
terms on which we purchase product from many of our vendors entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases.
These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. If market conditions change, vendors may adversely change the terms of
some or all of these programs. Although these changes would not affect the net recorded costs of product already purchased, it
may lower our gross margins on products we sell and therefore the income we realize on such sales in future periods.
 
Cyclicality in our business could result in lower revenues
and reduced profitability.
 
                   We
sell a portion of our products for new residential and non-residential construction. The strength of these markets depends on new
housing starts and business investment, which are a function of many factors beyond our control, including credit and capital availability,
interest rates, employment levels and consumer confidence. Economic downturns in the regions and markets we serve could result
in lower revenues and, since many of our expenses are fixed, lower profitability. Although new housing starts were up slightly
in 2010 and 2012, they declined during 2006 through 2009, and again in 2011, and the pace could continue at the current historically
low levels. Commercial construction activity declined in 2009 and 2011 while increasing in 2010 and slightly in 2012. The challenging
economic conditions in recent years, including tighter credit markets, influenced new commercial projects and, to a lesser extent,
re-roofing projects, and may continue to negatively affect expenditures for non-residential roofing in the near term.
 
 Seasonality in the construction and re-roofing industry
generally results in second quarter losses.
 
                   Our
second quarter is typically affected adversely by winter construction cycles and cold weather patterns as the levels of activity
in the new construction and re-roofing markets decrease. Because many of our expenses remain relatively fixed throughout the year,
we generally record a loss during our second quarter. We expect that these seasonal variations will continue in the near future.
 

-12-
 

 
If we encounter difficulties with our management information
systems, we could experience problems with inventory, collections, customer service, cost control and business plan execution.
 
                   We
believe our management information systems are a competitive advantage in maintaining our leadership position in the roofing distribution
industry. However, if we experience problems with our management information systems, we could experience, among other things,
product shortages and/or an increase in accounts receivable aging. Any failure by us to properly maintain and protect our management
information systems could adversely impact our ability to attract and serve customers and could cause us to incur higher operating
costs and experience delays in the execution of our business plan.
 
                   Since we rely heavily on information technology
both in serving our customers and in our enterprise infrastructure in order to achieve our objectives, we may be vulnerable to
damage or intrusion from a variety of cyber-attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs that
access our systems. Despite the precautions we take to mitigate the risks of such events, an attack on our enterprise information
technology system could result in theft or disclosure of our proprietary or confidential information or a breach of confidential
customer or employee information. Such events could have an adverse impact on revenue, harm our reputation, and cause us to incur
legal liability and costs, which could be significant, to address and remediate such events and related security concerns.
 
An impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets
could reduce net income.
 
                   Acquisitions
frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets. At September 30, 2012, goodwill represented approximately
36% of our total assets. Goodwill is not amortized for financial reporting purposes and is subject to impairment testing at least
annually using a fair-value based approach. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the estimation
of the fair value of our reporting units. Our accounting for impairment contains uncertainty because management must use judgment
in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. We determine the fair values of our reporting
units by using both a market and income approach.
 
                   We
evaluate the recoverability of goodwill for impairment in between our annual tests when events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. Any impairment of goodwill will reduce net income in the period in
which the impairment is recognized.
 
We might need to raise additional capital, which may not
be available, thus limiting our growth prospects.
 
                   We
may require additional future equity or further debt financing in order to consummate an acquisition; for additional working capital
for expansion; or if we suffer more than seasonally expected losses. In the event such additional equity or debt financing is unavailable
to us, we may be unable to expand or make acquisitions and our stock price may decline as a result of the perception that we have
more limited growth prospects.
  
Major disruptions in the capital and credit markets may
impact both the availability of credit and business conditions.
 
           
If the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by major disruptions in the capital
and credit markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under those credit commitments. This could have an adverse impact
on our financial condition since we need to borrow funds at times for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other
corporate purposes.
 
               Major
disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also lead to broader economic downturns, which could result in lower demand
for our products and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Additional customer bankruptcies
or similar events caused by such broader downturns may result in a higher level of bad debt expense than we have historically
experienced. Also, our suppliers may potentially be impacted, causing potential disruptions or delays of product availability.
These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
 
    ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS
 
                   None.
 
    ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES
 
                   We
lease 211 facilities as of November 1, 2012, including our headquarters and other support facilities, throughout the United States
and Canada. These leased facilities range in size from approximately 2,000 square feet to 137,000 square feet. In addition, we
own thirteen sales/warehouse facilities located in Manchester, New Hampshire; Reading, Pennsylvania; Montreal, Quebec (2); Sainte-Foy,
Quebec; Delson, Quebec; Salisbury, Maryland; Hartford, Connecticut; Cranston, Rhode Island; Lancaster, Pennsylvania; Jacksonville,
Florida; Easton, Maryland; and Manassas, Virginia. These owned facilities range in size from 11,500 square feet to 68,000 square
feet. We also own a parcel of land in Trois Rivieres, Quebec, on which we plan to construct a branch in 2013. All of the owned
properties are mortgaged to our senior lenders. We believe that our properties are in good operating condition and adequately serve
our current business operations.
 

-13-
 

 
                   As
of November 1, 2012, our 224 branches, a few with multiple leased facilities or combined facilities, and 7 other facilities
were located in the following states and provinces:
 



State
 
Number of  Branches
 
 
Other
 

Alabama
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 

Arkansas
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 

California
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 

Colorado
 
 
7
 
 
 
2
 

Connecticut
 
 
2
 
 
 
1
 

Delaware
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

Florida
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 

Georgia
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 

Illinois
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 

Indiana
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 

Iowa
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

Kansas
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 

Kentucky
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 

Louisiana
 
 
5
 
 
 
1
 

Maine
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

Maryland
 
 
14
 
 
 
1
 

Massachusetts
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 

Michigan
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

Minnesota
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

Mississippi
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

Missouri
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 

Nebraska
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 

New Hampshire
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

New Jersey
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

New Mexico
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

New York
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

North Carolina
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 

Ohio
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 

Oklahoma
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 

Pennsylvania
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
 

Rhode Island
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

South Carolina
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 

Tennessee
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 

Texas
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
 

Vermont
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

Virginia
 
 
9
 
 
 
1
 

West Virginia
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 

Wyoming
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

Subtotal—U.S.
 
 
207
 
 
 
6
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Canadian Provinces
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Alberta
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

Saskatoon
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

British Columbia
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

Ontario
 
 
4
 
 
 
1
 

Quebec
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 

Nova Scotia
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

Subtotal—Canada
 
 
17
 
 
 
1
 

Total
 
 
224
 
 
 
7
 


  
    ITEM 3.    LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS
 
                   From
time to time, we are involved in lawsuits that are brought against us in the normal course of business. We are not currently a
party to any legal proceedings that would be expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect
on our business or financial condition.
 
    ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY
DISCLOSURES
 
                   Not
applicable.
 

-14-
 

 
PART II 
 
    ITEM 5.    MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 
                   Our
common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "BECN". The following table lists quarterly information
on the price range of our common stock based on the high and low reported sale prices for our common stock as reported by NASDAQ
for the periods indicated below:
 


  
High  
Low 

  
   
  

Year ended September 30, 2011: 
    
   

  
    
   

First quarter 
$18.30  
$14.22 

Second quarter 
$21.70  
$17.87 

Third quarter 
$22.82  
$19.35 

Fourth quarter 
$23.24  
$14.89 

  
    
   

Year ended September 30, 2012: 
    
   

  
    
   

First quarter 
$20.84  
$15.34 

Second quarter 
$26.93  
$20.23 

Third quarter 
$27.29  
$22.93 

Fourth quarter 
$30.41  
$24.09 

 
There were 58 holders of record of our common
stock as of November 1, 2012.
 
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated
Purchasers
 
                   No
purchases of our equity securities were made by us or any affiliated entity during the fourth quarter of the year ended September
30, 2012.
 
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
 
                   None.
 
Dividends
 
                   We
have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our board of
directors currently intends to retain any future earnings for reinvestment in our growing business. Our revolving credit facilities
currently prohibit the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of our lenders. Any future determination to pay dividends
will also be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our results of operations and cash flows, our
financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory and any contractual restrictions
on the payment of dividends, and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant.
 
Performance Graph
 
                   The
following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return (including reinvestment of dividends) of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s
common stock based on its market prices, beginning with the start of fiscal year 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter, with (i) the
Nasdaq Index and (ii) the S&P 1500 Building Products Index.
 

-15-
 

 

 
The line graph assumes that $100 was invested
in our common stock, the Nasdaq Index and the S&P 1500 Building Products Index on September 30, 2007. The closing price
of our common stock on September 30, 2012 was $28.48. The stock price performance of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s common
stock depicted in the graph above represents past performance only and is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
    ITEM 6.    SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA
 
                   You
should read the following selected financial information together with our financial statements and related notes and "Management's
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" also included in this Form 10-K. We have derived
the statement of operations data for the years ended September 30, 2012, September 30, 2011 and September 30, 2010, and the balance
sheet information at September 30, 2012 and September 30, 2011, from our audited financial statements included in this Form 10-K.
We have derived the statements of operations data for the years ended September 30, 2009 and September 30, 2008, and
the balance sheet data at September 30, 2010, September 30, 2009 and September 30, 2008, from our audited financial
statements not included in this Form 10-K.
 

-16-
 

 
Statement of operations data
 


(Dollars
    in Thousands) 
Fiscal
    year ended September 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Net sales 
$2,043,658  
$1,817,423  
$1,609,969  
$1,733,967  
$1,784,495 

Cost of products sold 
 1,542,254  
 1,397,798  
 1,249,869  
 1,322,845  
 1,364,487 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Gross profit 
 501,404  
 419,625  
 360,100  
 411,122  
 420,008 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Operating expenses 
 357,732  
 315,883  
 286,583  
 301,913  
 325,298 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Income from operations 
 143,672  
 103,742  
 73,517  
 109,209  
 94,710 

Interest expense and other financing costs 
 (17,173) 
 (13,364) 
 (18,210) 
 (22,887) 
 (25,904)

Income taxes 
 (50,934) 
 (31,158) 
 (20,781) 
 (33,904) 
 (28,500)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
$75,565  
$59,220  
$34,526  
$52,418  
$40,306 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net income per share 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
$1.62  
$1.29  
$0.76  
$1.16  
$0.91 

Diluted 
$1.58  
$1.27  
$0.75  
$1.15  
$0.90 

Weighted average shares outstanding 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
 46,718,948  
 45,919,198  
 45,480,922  
 45,007,313  
 44,346,293 

Diluted 
 47,840,967  
 46,753,152  
 46,031,593  
 45,493,786  
 44,959,357 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Other financial and operating data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Depreciation and amortization 
$24,353  
$25,060  
$27,773  
$30,389  
$34,240 

Capital expenditures (excluding acquisitions) 
$17,404  
$14,433  
$10,268  
$14,277  
$5,739 

Number of branches at end of period 
 209  
 185  
 179  
 172  
 175 

 
Note:
Earnings in 2012 were impacted by the following charges: $2.6 million ($1.6 million net of tax), or $0.03 diluted earnings per
share, for the recognition of the fair value of certain interest rate derivatives in interest expense and other financing costs;
$1.2 million ($0.7 million net of tax), or $0.02 diluted earnings per share, resulting from our April 2012 refinancing; and $3.0
million of termination benefits ($1.8 million net of tax), or $0.04 diluted earnings per share, associated with our July 2012 acquisition
of Structural Materials Co. and the announced retirement of our CFO. Earnings in 2011 included the beneficial impact of $5.1 million,
or $0.11 diluted earnings per share, from the reversal of a net deferred tax liability associated with a change in the tax status
of our Canadian operations. 
 
Balance sheet data
 


  
September
    30, 

(In Thousands) 
2012  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Cash and cash equivalents 
$40,205  
$143,027  
$117,136  
$82,742  
$26,038 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total assets 
$1,216,982  
$1,156,964  
$1,042,189  
$1,040,786  
$1,067,816 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Borrowings under revolving
    lines of credit, current portions of long-term debt and other obligations 
$56,932  
$15,605  
$15,734  
$15,092  
$19,926 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Long-term debt, net of current portions: 
    
    
    
    
   

Senior notes payable and other obligations 
$208,125  
$301,544  
$311,771  
$322,090  
$332,500 

Other long-term obligations 
 12,750  
 9,967  
 11,910  
 16,257  
 25,143 

  
    
    
    
    
   

  
$220,875  
$311,511  
$323,681  
$338,347  
$357,643 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Stockholders' equity 
$651,962  
$538,427  
$468,844  
$423,573  
$366,701 

 
    ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
                   
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and other
financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, the following discussion
and other parts of this Form 10-K contain forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties. Our actual results
could differ materially from those anticipated by this forward-looking information due to the factors discussed under "Risk
factors," "Forward-looking statements" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Certain tabular information will not
foot due to rounding.
 
Overview
 
                   We
are one of the largest distributors of residential and non-residential roofing materials in the United States and Canada. We are
also a distributor of other building materials, including siding, windows, specialty lumber products and waterproofing systems
for residential and nonresidential building exteriors. We purchase products from a large number of manufacturers and then distribute
these goods to a customer base consisting of contractors and, to a lesser extent, general contractors, retailers and building material
suppliers.
 

-17-
 

 
                   We
currently carry up to 11,000 SKUs through 224 branches in the United States and Canada. In fiscal year 2012, approximately 92%
of our net sales were in the United States. We stock one of the most extensive assortments of high-quality branded products in
the industry, enabling us to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis.
 
                   Execution
of the operating plan at each of our branches drives our financial results. Revenues are impacted by the relative strength of the
residential and non-residential roofing markets we serve. We strive for an appropriate mix of residential, non-residential and
complementary product sales in all of our regions but allow each of our branches to influence its own marketing plan and mix of
products based upon its local market. We differentiate ourselves from the competition by providing many customer services such
as job site delivery, tapered insulation layouts and design and metal fabrication, and by providing credit. We consider customer
relations and our employees' knowledge of roofing and exterior building materials to be important to our ability to increase customer
loyalty and maintain customer satisfaction. We invest significant resources in training our employees in sales techniques, management
skills and product knowledge. While we consider these attributes important drivers of our business, we also continually pay close
attention to controlling operating costs.
 
   Our growth strategy includes
both internal growth (opening new branches, growing sales with existing customers, adding new customers and introducing new products)
and acquisition growth. Our main acquisition strategy is to target market leaders in geographic areas that we do not service. Our
May 2011 acquisition of Enercon Products Inc. (“Enercon”) is one example of this approach. Enercon is a roofing distributor
with six locations in Western Canada. Headquartered within its branch in Edmonton, Enercon also has branches in Calgary, Regina
and Saskatoon and two branches in Vancouver, with no branch overlap with our existing operations. In addition, we also acquire
smaller companies to supplement branch openings within existing markets. Our July 2012 acquisition of Structural Materials
Co. ("Structural"), a distributor of residential and commercial roofing products and related accessories headquartered
in Santa Ana, CA, is an example of this second approach. Structural has six locations in Los Angeles and Orange Counties and in
the surrounding areas, which we integrated into our existing Pacific Supply region in Southern California.
 
General
 
                   We
sell all materials necessary to install, replace and repair residential and non-residential roofs, including:


 
●
shingles;

 
●
single-ply roofing;

 
●
metal roofing and accessories;

 
●
modified bitumen;

 
●
built up roofing;

 
●
insulation;

 
●
slate and tile;

 
●
fasteners, coatings and cements; and

 
●
other roofing accessories.

 
                   We
also sell complementary building products such as:


 
●
vinyl siding;

 
●
doors, windows and millwork;

 
●
wood and fiber cement siding;

 
●
residential insulation; and

 
●
waterproofing systems.

 
The following is a summary of our net sales by product
group (in thousands) for the last three full fiscal years (“2012”, “2011” and “2010”). Percentages
may not total due to rounding.
 


  
Year
    Ended September 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
Net
    Sales  
Mix  
Net
    Sales  
Mix  
Net
    Sales  
Mix 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Residential roofing products 
$1,023,547  
 50.1% 
$849,970  
 46.8% 
$748,007  
 46.5%

Non-residential roofing products 
 757,906  
 37.1% 
 718,145  
 39.5% 
 619,348  
 38.5%

Complementary building products 
 262,205  
 12.8% 
 249,308  
 13.7% 
 242,614  
 15.1%

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
$2,043,658  
 100.0% 
$1,817,423  
 100.0% 
$1,609,969  
 100.0%

 


-18-
 



 
We have over 40,000 customers, none of which
represents more than 2% of our net sales. Many of our customers are small to mid-size contractors with relatively limited capital
resources. We maintain strict credit review and approval policies, which has helped to keep losses from uncollectible customer
receivables within our expectations. Bad debts in 2012 were within our normal historical levels at approximately 0.2% of net sales,
while bad debts in 2011 were slightly higher than normal levels at 0.4% of net sales but still within our tolerance in consideration
of the challenging economic and credit climate.
 
Our expenses consist primarily of the cost
of products purchased for resale, labor, fleet, occupancy, and selling and administrative expenses. We compete for business and
may respond to competitive pressures at times by lowering prices in order to maintain our market share.
 
We opened four new branches in 2012, three
in 2011 and none in 2010. We slowed the pace of new branch openings since 2007, mostly as a result of the economic downturn, but
expect to increase the pace in 2013. Typically, when we open a new branch, we transfer a certain level of existing business from
an existing branch to the new branch. This allows the new branch to commence with a base business and also allows the existing
branch to target other growth opportunities.
 
In managing our business, we consider all
growth, including the opening of new branches, to be internal growth unless it is a result of an acquisition. When we refer to
growth in existing markets in our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, we include growth from
existing and newly-opened branches but exclude growth from acquired branches until they have been under our ownership for at least
four full fiscal quarters at the start of the reporting period. Our average annual internal sales growth over the eight fiscal
years since our IPO has been 3.7%. When we refer to our net product costs, we are referring to our invoice cost less the impact
of short-term buying programs (also referred to as “special buys” given the manner in which they are offered).
 
Results of operations
 
The following discussion compares our results
of operations for 2012, 2011 and 2010.
 
The following table shows, for the periods
indicated, information derived from our consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of net sales for the periods
presented. Percentages may not total due to rounding.
 


  
Year ended September 30, 

  
   
   
  

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
  

Net sales 
 100.0% 
 100.0% 
 100.0%

Cost of products sold 
 75.5  
 76.9  
 77.6 

  
    
    
   

Gross profit 
 24.5  
 23.1  
 22.4 

  
    
    
   

Operating expenses 
 17.5  
 17.4  
 17.8 

  
    
    
   

Income from operations 
 7.0  
 5.7  
 4.6 

Interest expense and other financing costs 
 (0.8) 
 (0.7) 
 (1.1)

  
    
    
   

Income before income taxes 
 6.2  
 5.0  
 3.4 

Income taxes 
 (2.5) 
 (1.7) 
 (1.3)

  
    
    
   

Net income 
 3.7% 
 3.3% 
 2.1%

 

2012 compared to 2011
 
The following table shows a summary of our
results of operations for 2012 and 2011, broken down by existing markets and acquired markets.
 


  
Existing Markets  
Acquired Markets  
Consolidated 

(in thousands) 
2012  
2011  
2012  
2011  
2012  
2011 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Net sales 
$1,905,441  
$1,792,391  
$138,217  
$25,032  
$2,043,658  
$1,817,423 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Gross profit 
 464,149  
 413,227  
 37,255  
 6,398  
 501,404  
 419,625 

Gross margin 
 24.4% 
 23.1% 
 27.0% 
 25.6% 
 24.5% 
 23.1%

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Operating expenses 
 321,057  
 311,347  
 36,675  
 4,536  
 357,732  
 315,883 

Operating expenses as a % of net sales 
 16.8% 
 17.4% 
 26.5% 
 18.1% 
 17.5% 
 17.4%

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Operating income (loss) 
$143,092  
$101,880  
$580  
$1,862  
$143,672  
$103,742 

Operating margin 
 7.5% 
 5.7% 
 0.4% 
 7.4% 
 7.0% 
 5.7%

 

-19-
 

 
Net Sales
 
Consolidated net sales increased $226.2 million, or 12.5%,
to $2,043.7 million in 2012 from $1,817.4 million in 2011. Existing market sales increased $113.0 million or 6.3%
(7.6% based on the same number of business days). Acquired market sales increased $113.2 million due to a full year’s
sales impact from the 2011 acquisitions and the partial year impact from our 2012 acquisitions. We attribute the existing market
sales increase primarily to the following factors:
 

·better weather conditions in the first half of this year allowed for
an increase in roofing activities, especially residential roofing;

·strong growth in the first half of this year in the markets affected
by last year’s storms;

·strong growth in non-residential roofing activity in most of our regions
through the second quarter; and

·industry-wide price increases in our roofing product groups since last
year’s second quarter.
partially offset by:

·less roofing activity in the back half of this year in the markets
affected by last spring’s hail storms; and

·a slowdown in non-residential roofing activity during the back half
of this year.
 
In 2012, we acquired twenty-two branches,
opened four new branches, and closed two branches. In 2012, we have estimated the impact of inflation or deflation on our sales
and gross profit by looking at changes in our average selling prices and gross margins (discussed below). Average selling prices
were up overall 3-4% in 2012 compared to 2011, with price increases of non-residential products at 8-9%. Residential roofing product
prices were up slightly at 1%, while complementary product prices were up 3-4%. The higher gross margins in 2012 are an indicator
that the inflation in our net product costs was less than the impact from the increase in our average selling prices. Existing
market net sales by geographical region increased (decreased) as follows: Northeast 6.3%; Mid-Atlantic 10.9%; Southeast 13.9%;
Southwest 10.3%; Midwest (3.0%); West 2.8%; and Canada 3.1%. These variations were primarily caused by short-term factors such
as local economic conditions, weather conditions and storm activity that influence the comparisons of a single geographical region.
We had 251 business days in 2012 compared to 254 in 2011.
 
The product group sales for our existing
markets were as follows:
 
For the Fiscal Years Ended
 


  
   
% Change Based 

  
   
   
   
On Average Sales 

  
2012  
2011  
Change  
Per Business Day 

(dollars in millions) 
Net Sales  
Mix  
Net Sales  
Mix  
   
   
  

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Residential roofing products 
$923.5  
 48.5% 
$826.2  
 46.1% 
$97.3  
 11.8% 
 13.1%

Non-residential roofing products 
 734.0  
 38.5% 
 717.4  
 40.0% 
 16.6  
 2.3% 
 3.5%

Complementary building products 
 247.9  
 13.0% 
 248.8  
 13.9% 
 (0.9) 
 -0.4% 
 0.8%

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
$1,905.4  
 100.0% 
$1,792.4  
 100.0% 
$113.0  
 6.3% 
 7.6%


 
For 2012, our acquired markets recognized
sales of $100.1, $23.9 and $14.2 million in residential roofing products, non-residential roofing products and complementary building
products, respectively. The 2012 existing market sales of $1,905.4 million plus the total sales from acquired markets of $138.2 million
agrees (rounded) to our reported total 2012 sales of $2,043.7 million. For 2011, our acquired markets recognized sales
of $23.8, $0.7 and $0.5 million in residential roofing products, non-residential roofing products and complementary building products,
respectively. The 2011 existing market sales of $1,792.4 million plus the sales from acquired markets of $25.0 million
agrees to our reported total 2011 sales of $1,817.4 million. Prior year sales by product group are presented in a manner consistent
with the current year’s product classifications. We believe the existing market information is useful to investors because
it helps explain organic growth or decline.
 
Gross Profit
 


  
2012  
2011  
Change
 

  
  
(dollars in millions)  
  
  

 

Gross profit 
$501.4  
$419.6  
$81.8  
    
19.5
%

Existing markets 
 464.1  
 413.2  
 50.9  
    
12.3
%

  
    
    
    
   
 
 
 

Gross margin 
 24.5% 
 23.1% 
    
 1.4% 

 

Existing markets 
 24.4% 
 23.1% 
    
 1.3% 

 

 

-20-
 

 
Our existing market gross profit increased
$50.9 million or 12.3% in 2012, while our acquired market gross profit increased $30.9 million. Our overall and existing market
gross margins increased to 24.5% and 24.4% in 2012, respectively, from 23.1% in 2011. The higher gross margins in 2012 were due
primarily to improved gross margins in residential roofing product sales and an increase in our mix of those residential product
sales, which generally have higher gross margins than our other products.
  
Direct sales (products shipped by our vendors
directly to our customers), which typically have substantially lower gross margins than our warehouse sales, represented 17.7%
and 20.4% of our net sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. This decrease was primarily attributable to the lower mix of non-residential
roofing product sales, which are more commonly facilitated by direct shipment. There were no material divisional impacts from changes
in the direct sales mix of our geographical regions.
 
Operating Expenses

 


  
2012  
2011  
Change
 

  
  
(dollars in millions)  
  
  

 

Operating expenses 
$357.7  
$315.9  
$41.8  
    
13.2
%

Existing markets 
 321.1  
 311.3  
 9.7  
    
3.1
%

  
    
    
    
   
 
 
 

Operating expenses as a % of sales 
 17.5% 
 17.4% 
    
 0.1% 

 

Existing markets 
 16.8% 
 17.4% 
    
 -0.5% 

 


  
Operating expenses in our existing market
increased $9.7 million or 3.1% in 2012 to $321.1 million, compared to $311.3 million in 2011, while our acquired market
expenses increased by $32.1 million to $36.7 million. The following factors were the leading causes of the higher operating expenses
in our existing markets:
 

·increased payroll and related costs of $12.3 million primarily due to
higher incentive-based pay, overtime pay, certain benefits and payroll taxes;

·increased selling expenses of $1.4 million from higher fuel and transportation
costs and credit card fees; and

·increases in general and administrative costs of $3.6 million principally
from higher professional fees, severance costs, general insurance costs and travel expenses;
 
partially offset by
 

·decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $4.3 million from
lower amortization of intangibles and reduced depreciation from the impact of low capital expenditures in recent years; and

·decreased bad debts of $3.9 million due primarily to a lower percentage
of past-due accounts as improvement in the roofing industry enabled more of our customers to stay current with their required payments.
 
In 2012 and
2011, we expensed a total of $9.4 million and $8.6 million, respectively, for the amortization of intangible assets recorded
under purchase accounting, including the impact from acquired markets. Our existing market
operating expenses as a percentage of the related net sales decreased to 16.8% in 2012 from 17.4% in 2011 due to the positive impact
from the higher sales, partially offset by the impact from the above increases.
 
Interest Expense and Other Financing
Costs
 
Interest expense and
other financing costs were $17.2 million in 2012 compared to $13.4 million in 2011. The 2012 expense includes a charge of
$2.6 million for the recognition of the fair value of certain interest rate derivatives and $1.2 million resulting from the refinancing
of our debt. These negative factors on interest expense and other financing costs in 2012 were partially offset by the benefit
from lower outstanding total debt. Interest expense and other financing costs would have been $7.5 and $5.1 million lower in 2012
and 2011, respectively, without the impact of our interest rate derivatives.
 
Income Taxes
 
Income tax expense
was $50.9 million in 2012, an effective tax rate of 40.3%, compared to $31.2 million in 2011, which was an effective
tax rate of 34.5%. The 2011 income tax expense includes the beneficial impact of $5.1 million, $0.11 diluted earnings per share,
from the reversal of the net deferred tax liability associated with a change in the tax status of our Canadian operations as discussed
below. Without that benefit, our effective tax rate would have been approximately 40.1% in 2011.We expect our future annual income
tax rate to average approximately 39.5% to 40.5%, excluding any discrete items.
 

-21-
 

 
2011 compared to 2010
 
The following table shows a summary of our
results of operations for 2011 and 2010, broken down by existing markets and acquired markets.
 


  
Existing Markets  
Acquired Markets  
Consolidated 

(in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Net sales 
$1,730,267  
$1,583,687  
$87,156  
$26,282  
$1,817,423  
$1,609,969 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Gross profit 
 399,262  
 355,000  
 20,363  
 5,080  
 419,625  
 360,080 

Gross margin 
 23.1% 
 22.4% 
 23.4% 
 19.3% 
 23.1% 
 22.4%

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Operating expenses 
 296,666  
 280,342  
 19,217  
 6,221  
 315,883  
 286,563 

Operating expenses as a % of net sales 
 17.1% 
 17.7% 
 22.0% 
 23.7% 
 17.4% 
 17.8%

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Operating income (loss) 
$102,596  
$74,658  
$1,146  
$(1,141) 
$103,742  
$73,517 

Operating margin 
 5.9% 
 4.7% 
 1.3% 
 -4.3% 
 5.7% 
 4.6%

 
Net Sales
 
Consolidated net sales increased $207.5 million,
or 12.9%, to $1.82 billion in 2011 from $1.61 billion in 2010. Existing market sales increased $146.6 million or
9.3% (8.8% based on the same number of business days), while acquired market sales increased $60.9 million due to a full year’s
sales impact from the 2010 acquisitions and the impact from the May 2011 Enercon acquisition. We attribute the existing market
sales increase primarily to the following factors:
 

·strong growth in the markets affected by the spring of 2011’s hail storms;

·continued strong growth in non-residential roofing activity in most of the other regions; and

·industry-wide increases in asphalt shingle and other prices;
partially offset by:

·volume declines in residential re-roofing activity in a few regions.
 
In 2011, we acquired six branches, opened
three new branches, and closed three branches. In 2011, we estimated the impact of inflation or deflation on our sales and gross
profit by looking at changes in our net product costs and invoiced gross margins, and since 2010 we experienced an approximate
4% increase in residential roofing product costs and approximately 4-7% increases in non-residential and complementary product
costs. The net impact of these factors increased our overall net product costs by approximately 5%, although we believe average
sales prices may have increased at a slightly higher rate as mentioned in the discussion of gross profit below. We had 254 business
days in 2011 compared to 253 in 2010. Net sales, excluding acquired branches, increased in every geographical region as follows:
Northeast 9.9%; Mid-Atlantic 8.5%; Southeast 1.0%; Southwest 6.0%; Midwest 15.8%; West 18.7%; and Canada 1.3%. These variations
were primarily caused by short-term factors such as local economic conditions, weather conditions and storm activity.
 
The product group sales for our existing
markets were as follows:
 

-22-
 

 
For the Fiscal Years Ended
 


  
   
% Change Based 

  
   
   
   
   
On Average Sales 

  
2011  
2010  
Change  
Per Business Day 

(dollars in millions) 
Net Sales  
Mix  
Net Sales  
Mix  
   
   
  

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Residential roofing products 
$801.7  
 46.3% 
$736.9  
 46.5% 
$64.8  
 8.8% 
 8.4%

Non-residential roofing products 
 683.9  
 39.5% 
 606.3  
 38.3% 
 77.6  
 12.8% 
 12.4%

Complementary building products 
 244.7  
 14.1% 
 240.5  
 15.2% 
 4.2  
 1.7% 
 1.3%

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
$1,730.3  
 100.0% 
$1,583.7  
 100.0% 
$146.6  
 9.3% 
 8.8%

 
For 2011, our acquired markets recognized
sales of $43.9, $39.7 and $3.6 million in residential roofing products, non-residential roofing products and complementary building
products, respectively. The 2011 existing market sales of $1,730.3 million plus the sales from acquired markets of $87.2 million
agrees (rounded) to our reported total 2011 sales of $1,817.4 million.  For 2010, our acquired markets recognized sales
of $11.1, $13.1 and $2.1 million in residential roofing products, non-residential roofing products and complementary building products,
respectively. The 2010 existing market sales of $1,583.7 million plus the sales from acquired markets of $26.3 million
agrees to our reported total 2011 sales of $1,610.0 million. Sales by product group for 2010 are presented in a manner consistent
with the 2011 product classifications. We believe the existing market information is useful to investors because it helps explain
organic growth or decline.
 
Gross Profit
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Change
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Gross profit
 
$
419.6
 
 
$
360.1
 
 
$
59.5
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.5
%

Existing markets
 
 
399.3
 
 
 
355.0
 
 
 
44.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.5
%

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Gross margin
 
 
23.1
%
 
 
22.4
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.7
%
 
 

 

Existing markets
 
 
23.1
%
 
 
22.4
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.7
%
 
 

 

 
Our existing market gross profit increased
$44.3 million or 12.5% in 2011, while our acquired market gross profit increased $15.3 million.  Our overall and existing
market gross margins increased to 23.1% from 22.4% in 2011 from 2010. The 2010 margin rate was lower than the historical average
rate due to a more competitive market and low demand in 2010. In 2011, there was more storm demand and average selling prices increased
in most of our markets, which allowed us to generate gross margins more consistent with our historical results. In addition, we
were able to increase our inventory levels ahead of certain vendor price increases.  However, our mix of non-residential product
sales, which generally have lower gross margins, increased slightly in 2011.
 
Direct sales (products shipped by our vendors
directly to our customers), which typically have substantially lower gross margins than our warehouse sales, represented 20.4%
and 20.3% of our net sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. This slight increase in the percentage of direct sales was primarily
attributable to the slightly higher mix of non-residential roofing product sales, which are more commonly facilitated by direct
shipment. There were no material regional impacts from changes in the direct sales mix of our geographical regions. 
 
Operating Expenses
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Change
 

 
 
(dollars in millions)
 

Operating expenses
 
$
315.9
 
 
$
286.6
 
 
$
29.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.2
%

Existing markets
 
 
296.7
 
 
 
280.3
 
 
 
16.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.8
%

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Operating expenses as a % of sales
 
 
17.4
%
 
 
17.8
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.4
%
 
 
 
 

Existing markets
 
 
17.1
%
 
 
17.7
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0.6
%
 
 
 
 

 
Operating expenses in our existing markets
increased by $16.3 million or 5.8% in 2011 to $296.7 million from $280.3 million in 2010, while our acquired market expenses
increased $13.0 million. The following factors were the leading causes of the higher operating expenses in our existing markets:
 

·increased payroll and related costs of $12.0 million due to higher
incentive-based and overtime pay, primarily associated with our higher sales and operating results, along with higher related payroll
taxes and certain benefits;
 

-23-
 

 

·increased selling expenses of $5.4 million principally from higher
fuel costs, outsourced trucking expenses, credit card fees and other selling expenses; and

·increased bad debt expense of $3.3 million mainly due to an increased
estimated allowance for potential bad debts;
partially offset by

·decreased depreciation and amortization expense of $3.8 million from
lower amortization of intangibles and reduced depreciation from the impact of low capital expenditures in recent years; and

·savings in warehouse expenses of $0.5 million mainly from lower maintenance
costs.
 
In 2011, we expensed a total of $8.6 million
for the amortization of intangible assets recorded under purchase accounting compared to $9.9 million in 2010. Our existing
market operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 17.1% in 2011 from 17.7% in 2010 due to the positive impact
from the higher sales, partially offset by the impact from the above increases.
 
Interest Expense and Other Financing Costs
 
Interest expense and other financing costs
decreased $4.8 million to $13.4 million in 2011 from $18.2 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to lower
debt and the expiration of certain interest rate derivatives in April 2010 that carried higher interest rates than the rates on
our current derivatives. In addition, we benefited from low interest rates on the portion of our debt no longer hedged.  Interest
expense and other financing costs would have been $5.1 and $8.9 million less in 2011 and 2010, respectively, without the impact
of our derivatives.
 
Income Taxes
 
Income tax expense
was $31.2 million in 2011, an effective tax rate of 34.5%, compared to $20.8 million in 2010, which was an effective
tax rate of 37.6%. This year’s income tax expense includes the beneficial impact of $5.1 million, $0.11 diluted earnings
per share, from the reversal of the net deferred tax liability associated with a change in the tax status of our Canadian operations
as discussed below. Without that benefit, our effective tax rate would have been approximately 40.1% in 2011. The 2010 effective
rate included benefits totaling $1.4 million from reversals of certain discrete tax reserves and releases of valuation allowances
on certain deferred tax assets.
 
During the fourth quarter of 2011, our request
to have our Canadian subsidiary (Beacon Roofing Supply Canada Company or “BRSCC”) treated as a Controlled Foreign Corporation
(“CFC”), retroactive to October 1, 2009, was approved by the IRS. BRSCC was previously treated as a “pass-through”
or disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Subsequent to October 1, 2009, BRSCC’s taxable income, which
reflects all of our Canadian operations, is being taxed only in Canada and would generally be taxed in the U.S. only upon an actual
or deemed distribution. We expect to indefinitely reinvest BRSCC’s earnings and therefore no U.S. deferred tax asset or liability
for the differences between the book basis and the tax basis of BRSCC will be recorded in the foreseeable future. Unremitted
earnings of $25.4 million were considered permanently reinvested at September 30, 2012. A quantification of the associated deferred
tax liability on those unremitted earnings of BRSCC has not been made, as the determination of such liability is not practicable.
 
ASC 740 provides that
the effect of an election for a voluntary change in tax status is recognized for accounting purposes on the approval date. Therefore
all of the associated adjustments to our income tax accounts for the above approved election were recorded in the fourth quarter
of 2011, including the adjustments resulting from a lower Canadian tax rate compared to the U.S. tax rate in 2011 and 2010. Deferred
assets and liabilities that were recorded over the time BRSCC was treated as a pass-through entity were derecognized and the resulting
impact of $5.1 million was included in income from continuing operations, including the reversal of a deferred tax liability of
$3.2 million previously reported as a component of other comprehensive income. The reversal was recorded in current year earnings,
as backwards tracing of such amounts to other comprehensive income is prohibited.
 
Seasonality and quarterly fluctuations
 
In general, sales and net income are highest
during our first, third and fourth fiscal quarters, which represent the peak months of construction and re-roofing, especially
in our branches in the northern and mid-western U.S. and in Canada. We have historically incurred low net income levels or net
losses during the second quarter when our sales are substantially lower.
 
We generally experience
an increase in inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable during the third and fourth quarters of the year as a result
of the seasonality of our business. Our peak cash usage generally occurs during the third quarter, primarily because accounts payable
terms offered by our suppliers typically have due dates in April, May and June, while our peak accounts receivable collections
typically occur from June through November.
 

-24-
 

 
We generally experience
a slowing of our accounts receivable collections during our second quarter, mainly due to the inability of some of our customers
to conduct their businesses effectively in inclement weather in certain of our divisions. We continue to attempt to collect those
receivables, which require payment under our standard terms. We do not provide material concessions to our customers during this
quarter of the year.
 
Our vendors are also affected by the seasonality
in the industry and are more likely to provide seasonal incentives in our second quarter as a result of the lower level of roofing
activity. We generally experience our peak working capital needs during the third quarter after we build our inventories following
the Winter season but before we begin collecting on most of our Spring receivables.
 
Certain quarterly financial data
 
The following table sets forth certain unaudited
quarterly data for the fiscal years 2012 and 2011 which, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments (consisting of normal
recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation of this data. Results of any one or more quarters are not necessarily
indicative of results for an entire fiscal year or of continuing trends. Totals may not total due to rounding.
 


  
Fiscal year 2012  
Fiscal year 2011 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

  
Qtr 1  
Qtr 2  
Qtr 3  
Qtr 4  
Qtr 1  
Qtr 2  
Qtr 3  
Qtr 4 

  
(dollars in millions, except per share data) 

  
(unaudited) 

Net sales 
$489.9  
$395.2  
$560.5  
$598.1  
$404.8  
$296.3  
$540.7  
$575.6 

Gross profit 
 117.3  
 93.7  
 140.7  
 149.6  
 94.8  
 65.2  
 126.7  
 132.9 

Income (loss) from operations 
 34.3  
 9.8  
 51.3  
 48.3  
 19.8  
 (6.8) 
 43.1  
 47.6 

Net income (loss) 
$19.1  
$3.1  
$25.4  
$27.9  
$10.1  
$(6.2) 
$24.1  
$31.3 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) per share - basic 
$0.41  
$0.07  
$0.54  
$0.59  
$0.22  
$(0.13) 
$0.52  
$0.68 

Earnings (loss) per share - fully diluted 
$0.41  
$0.07  
$0.53  
$0.58  
$0.22  
$(0.13) 
$0.51  
$0.67 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Quarterly sales as % of year's sales 
 24.0% 
 19.3% 
 27.4% 
 29.3% 
 22.3% 
 16.3% 
 29.8% 
 31.7%

Quarterly gross profit as % of year's gross profit 
 23.4% 
 18.7% 
 28.1% 
 29.8% 
 22.6% 
 15.5% 
 30.2% 
 31.7%

Quarterly income (loss) from operations as % of year's income from
    operations 
 23.9% 
 6.8% 
 35.7% 
 33.6% 
 19.1% 
 -6.6% 
 41.6% 
 45.9%

 
Earnings in the first quarter of fiscal
2012 included the beneficial impact of $1.0 million, or $0.02 diluted earnings per share, from the reduction in the liability for
Enercon Products’ contingent consideration.
Earnings in the third quarter of fiscal
2012 were impacted by the following charges: $3.7 million ($2.2 million net of tax), or $0.05 diluted earnings per share, for the
recognition of the fair value of certain interest rate derivatives in interest expense and other financing costs; $1.2 million
($0.7 million net of tax), or $0.02 diluted earnings per share, resulting from the refinancing; and $1.3 million, or $0.03 diluted
earnings per share, from the increase in the liability for Enercon Products’ contingent consideration.
Earnings in the fourth quarter of fiscal
2012 included: a charge of $3.0 million ($1.8 million net of tax) for termination benefits, or $0.04 diluted earnings per share,
associated with the July 2012 acquisition of Structural Materials Co. and the retirement of one of our officers; and a benefit
of $1.1 million ($0.7 million net of tax), or $0.01 diluted earnings per share, for the recognition of the fair value of certain
interest rate derivatives in interest expense and other financing costs.
Earnings in the fourth quarter of fiscal
2011 included the beneficial impact of $5.1 million, $0.11 diluted earnings per share, from the reversal of a net deferred tax
liability associated with a change in the tax status of our Canadian operations. The calculation of the net loss per share for
the second quarter of 2011 does not include the effects of outstanding stock awards since the impact would have been anti-dilutive.
 
Impact of inflation
 
We believe that our results of operations
are not materially impacted by moderate changes in the inflation rate. In general, we have been able to pass on price increases
from our vendors to our customers in a timely manner. Although we experienced fluctuations in average inventory prices that were
consistent throughout the industry during 2012 and 2011, inflation and changing prices did not have a material impact on our net
operating results in 2012 or 2011.
 
Liquidity and capital resources
 
We had cash and cash equivalents of $40.2 million
at September 30, 2012 compared to $143.0 million at September 30, 2011. Our net working capital was $334.8 million at
September 30, 2012 compared to $410.8 million at September 30, 2011.
 

-25-
 

 
2012 compared to 2011
 
Our net cash provided by operating activities
was $85.4 million in 2012 compared to $79.3 million in 2011. The higher cash from operations was due to the increase in net
income of $16.3 million and higher non-cash adjustments of $13.3 million, mostly offset by more cash used by working capital changes
of $23.6 million, net of the impact of businesses acquired. Changes in working capital in 2012 included decreases in accounts receivable
and inventories of $19.8 and $13.3 million, respectively. The positive impact from those changes, however, were more than
offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $44.2 million and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets
of $22.4 million. The decrease in accounts receivable was due to improved collections from customers in 2012 as compared to 2011.
Our days sales outstanding (calculated based on the ending accounts receivable balance and the most recent quarter’s sales)
were down slightly due to the improvement in collections from our customers and more residential sales, which generally have shorter
payment terms. Inventory turns were relatively flat year over year, as the impact of a higher inventory level was offset by the
positive impact of higher sales. The higher level of inventory was primarily due to our acquisitions during 2012.The decrease in
accounts payable and accrued expenses was primarily due to a lower level of inventory purchases during the fourth quarter of 2012
compared to 2011. Lastly, the increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was mostly due to an increase in amounts due from vendors
for incentives.
 
Net cash used by investing activities was
$157.0 million in 2012 compared to $47.8 million used in 2011. Capital expenditures were $17.4 million in 2012 compared to $14.4
million in 2011. In addition, we spent $141.0 million on acquisitions in 2012 compared to $34.9 million in 2011. We currently expect
fiscal year 2013 capital expenditures to total between 1.0% to 1.2% of net sales, mostly dependent upon our sales volume and exclusive
of the impact of new branch openings.
 
Net cash used by financing activities was
$31.8 million in 2012 compared to $5.0 million used in 2011. In 2012, there were $91.8 million of loan repayments, net of proceeds
of $225.0 million from our new term loan and $4.0 million from new loans under our equipment financing facility. We borrowed $41.3
million under our new revolving lines of credit. We also received $24.1 million of proceeds from exercises of stock options and
paid $5.4 million in deferred financing costs in 2012. The financing activities in 2011 primarily reflected repayments under our
credit and equipment financing facilities, net of proceeds of $3.2 million from new loans under our equipment financing facility,
and proceeds from exercises of stock options.
 
2011 compared to 2010
 
Our net cash provided by operating activities
was $79.3 million in 2011 compared to $73.9 million in 2010. The higher cash from operations was due to the increase in net
income of $24.7 million, mostly offset by cash used by working capital changes, net of the impact of businesses acquired. Changes
in working capital provided a favorable increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $53.0 million and a favorable
decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $7.5 million. These were more than offset by unfavorable increases in accounts
receivable and inventories of $35.3 and $35.0 million, respectively. The increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses was
primarily due to a higher level of inventory purchases later this year and higher accrued income taxes. The increase in accounts
receivable was due to stronger fourth quarter sales in 2011 as compared to 2010. Our days sales outstanding (calculated based on
the ending accounts receivable balance and the most recent quarter’s sales) were down slightly due to the stronger fourth
quarter sales and a lower fourth-quarter mix of non-residential sales this year, which generally have longer payment terms. Inventory
turns were relatively flat year over year, as the impact of this year’s larger build-up of inventory was offset by the impact
of the higher sales. The higher level of inventory was primarily due to more normal purchasing levels in the fourth quarter of
2011 compared to the prior year, when we curtailed fourth-quarter purchases. We also maintained higher levels of inventories in
the branches that serviced storm demand in 2011. In addition, we have seen average overall product costs increase approximately
5% from 2010 to 2011. Lastly, the decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was mostly due to declines in prepaid income taxes
and amounts due from vendors for incentives.
 
Net cash used in investing activities was
$47.8 million in 2011 compared to $28.8 million in 2010. This increase was due to the cost of our acquisitions and higher
capital spending for transportation and material handling equipment.
 
Net cash used by financing activities was
$5.0 million in 2011 compared to $10.8 million in 2010. These amounts primarily reflected repayments under our credit
facilities, partially offset by proceeds from new equipment financings ($3.2 million) in 2011 and from the exercise of stock
options.
 
Capital Resources
 
Our principal source of liquidity at September
30, 2012 was our cash and cash equivalents of $40.2 million and our available borrowings of $258.4 million under revolving
lines of credit, which takes into account all of the debt covenants under the Credit Facility (see below), including the maximum
consolidated total leverage ratio and minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. Borrowings outstanding under the revolving
lines of credit in the accompanying balance sheet at September 30, 2012 and September 30, 2011 were classified as short-term debt.
This was because there is no current expectation of a minimum level of outstanding revolver borrowings in the twelve months following
2012 and we paid off the September 30, 2011 borrowings in 2012.

 

-26-
 

 

Liquidity is defined as the current amount
of readily available cash and the ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet the current needs for cash. We assess our
liquidity in terms of our cash and cash equivalents on hand and the ability to generate cash to fund our operating activities,
taking into consideration the seasonal nature of our business.  Our cash equivalents are comprised of highly liquid money
market funds which invest primarily in commercial paper or bonds with a rating of A-1 or better, and bank certificates of deposit.
 
Significant factors which could affect future
liquidity include the following:
 

•the adequacy of available bank lines of credit;

•the ability to attract long-term capital with satisfactory terms;

•cash flows generated from operating activities;

•acquisitions; and

•capital expenditures.
 
Our primary capital needs are for working
capital obligations and other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our primary sources
of working capital are cash from operations and cash equivalents, supplemented by bank borrowings. In the past, we have paid for
acquisitions from cash on hand or financed them initially through increased bank borrowings, the issuance of common stock and/or
other borrowings. We then repay any such borrowings with cash flows from operations. We have funded our past capital expenditures
through increased bank borrowings, including equipment financing, or through capital leases, and then have reduced these obligations
with cash flows from operations.
 
We believe we have adequate current liquidity
and availability of capital to fund our present operations, meet our commitments on our existing debt and fund anticipated growth,
including expansion in existing and targeted market areas. We continually seek potential acquisitions and from time to time hold
discussions with acquisition candidates. If suitable acquisition opportunities or working capital needs arise that would require
additional financing, we believe that our financial position and earnings history provide a strong base for obtaining additional
financing resources at competitive rates and terms, as we have in the past. We may also issue additional shares of common stock
to raise funds, which we last did in December 2005, or we may issue preferred stock.
 
Monitoring and Assessing Collectability of Accounts Receivable
 
We perform periodic credit evaluations of
our customers and typically do not require collateral, although we typically obtain payment and performance bonds for any type
of public work and have the ability to lien projects under certain circumstances. Consistent with industry practices, we require
payment from most customers within 30 days, except for sales to our commercial roofing contractors, which we typically require
to pay in 60 days.
 
As our business is seasonal in certain geographic
regions, our customers' businesses are also seasonal. Sales are lowest in the winter months and our past due accounts receivable
balance as a percentage of total receivables generally increases during this time. Throughout the year, we closely monitor our
receivables and record estimated reserves based upon our judgment of specific customer situations, aging of accounts and our historical
write-offs of uncollectible accounts.
 
Our regional credit offices are staffed
to manage and monitor our receivable aging balances and our systems allow us to enforce pre-determined credit approval levels and
properly leverage new business. The credit pre-approval process denotes the maximum requested credit amount that each level of
management can approve, with the highest credit amount requiring approval by our CEO and CFO. There are daily communications
with branch and field staff. Our regional offices conduct periodic reviews with their branch managers, various regional management
staff and the VP-Credit. Depending on the state of the respective region’s receivables, these reviews can be weekly, bi-weekly
or monthly. Additionally, the regions are required to submit a monthly receivable forecast to the VP-Credit. On a monthly basis,
the VP-Credit will review and discuss these forecasts, as well as a prior month recap, with the CEO and CFO.
 
Periodically, we perform a specific analysis
of all accounts past due and write off account balances when we have exhausted reasonable collection efforts and determined that
the likelihood of collection is remote based upon the following factors:
 

•aging statistics and trends;

•customer payment history;

•review of the customer’s financial statements when available;

•independent credit reports; and

•discussions with customers.
 

-27-
 

 
We still pursue collection of amounts written
off in certain circumstances and credit the allowance for any subsequent recoveries. In the past, annual bad debts typically averaged
approximately 0.3% of net sales. In 2012, bad debts declined to only 0.2% of net sales. In 2011, bad debts increased slightly
to 0.4% of net sales, which was still within our tolerance in consideration of the challenging economic and credit climate.
 
Indebtedness
 
We currently have the following credit facilities:
 

•a senior secured credit facility in the U.S.;
 

•a Canadian senior secured credit facility; and
 

•an equipment financing facility.
 
Senior Secured Credit Facility
 
On
April 5, 2012, we replaced the Prior Credit Facility (see below) with a new five-year senior secured credit facility that includes
a $550 million U.S. credit facility and a C$15 million ($14.7 million) Canadian credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, National
Association, and a syndicate of other lenders (combined, the “Credit Facility”). We paid off debt of $304.0 million
that was outstanding under the Prior Credit Facility with the proceeds from the Credit Facility and from approximately $79 million
of cash on hand. The $550 million U.S credit facility consists
of a revolving credit facility of $325 million (the “U.S. Revolver”), which includes a sub-facility of $20 million
for letters of credit, and a $225 million term loan (the “Term Loan”). The Term Loan has required amortization of 5%
per year that is payable in quarterly installments, with the balance due on March 31, 2017. We may increase the Credit Facility
by up to $200 million under certain conditions. There was $41.3 and $219.4 million outstanding under the U.S. Revolver and Term
Loan, respectively, at September 30, 2012. There were $5.5 million of outstanding standby letters of credit at September 30, 2012.
 
Interest
 
Borrowings under the Credit Facility carry
interest at a margin above the LIBOR Rate. The margin is currently 1.75% per annum and can range from 1.50% to 2.50% per annum
depending upon our Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio, as defined in the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility also provides for
a US base rate, defined in the agreement as the higher of the Prime Rate, or the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%, plus a margin above
that rate. In addition, the Canadian credit facility permits borrowings under a base rate, defined in the agreement as the higher
of the Canadian Prime Rate, or the annual rate of interest equal to the sum of the CDOR rate plus 1.0%, plus a margin above that
rate. The margin for both base rates is currently 0.75% per annum and can range from 0.50% to 1.50% per annum depending upon our
Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio, as defined in the Credit Facility. Current unused commitment fees on the revolving credit facilities
are 0.375% per annum. The unused commitment fees can range from 0.35% to 0.50% per annum, again depending upon our Consolidated
Total Leverage Ratio.
 
Our outstanding borrowings under the U.S.
Revolver at September 30, 2012 carried an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.75% (2.0% at September 30, 2012) for $35.0 million and
the remainder at the base rate (4.0%). There were no outstanding borrowings under the Canada revolver. The Term Loan balance carried
an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.75% (2.0% at September 30, 2012).
 
Financial covenants under the Credit Facility
are as follows:
 
Maximum Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio
 
On the last day of each fiscal quarter,
our Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio (the ratio of our outstanding debt to our trailing twelve-month earnings before interest,
income taxes, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation), as more fully defined in the Credit Facility, must not
be greater than 3.50:1.0, or 4.00:1.0 under a one-time request by us subsequent to an acquisition that meets the requirements under
the Credit Facility. At September 30, 2012, this ratio was 1.55:1.
 

-28-
 

 
Minimum Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
 
On the last day of each fiscal quarter,
our Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio (the ratio of our trailing twelve-month earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation,
amortization and stock-based compensation to our cash interest expense for the same period), as more fully defined in the Credit
Facility, must not be less than 3.00:1.0. At September 30, 2012, this ratio was 15.14:1.
 
As of September 30, 2012, we were in compliance
with these covenants. Substantially all of our assets, including the capital stock and assets of wholly-owned subsidiaries, secure
obligations under the Credit Facility.
 
Prior Credit Facility
 
On November 2, 2006, we entered into
an amended and restated seven-year $500 million U.S. senior secured credit facility and a C$15 million senior secured
Canadian credit facility with GE Antares Capital ("GE Antares") and a syndicate of other lenders (combined, the "Prior
Credit Facility"). The Prior Credit Facility provided for a cash receipts lock-box arrangement that gave us sole control over
the funds in lock-box accounts, unless excess availability was less than $10 million or an event of default occurred, in which
case the senior secured lenders would have had the right to take control over such funds and to apply such funds to repayment of
the senior debt.
 
The Prior Credit Facility consisted of a
U.S. revolving credit facility providing up to $150 million, which included a sub-facility of $20 million for letters
of credit, and a term loan with an initial principal amount of $350 million term loan (the "Prior Term Loan”).
The Prior Credit Facility also included a C$15 million senior secured revolving credit facility provided by GE Canada Finance
Holding Company. The Prior Term Loan required amortization of 1% per year, payable in quarterly installments of approximately $0.8 million,
and the remainder was scheduled to be due in 2013. The Prior Credit Facility could have also been expanded by up to an additional
$200 million under certain conditions. There were $4.6 million of outstanding standby letters of credit at September 30, 2011.
There were mandatory prepayments under the Prior Credit Facility under certain conditions, including the following cash flow condition:
 
Excess Cash Flow
 
By May 15 of each fiscal year, we were
required to pay an amount equal to 50% of the Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Prior Credit Facility) for the prior fiscal year,
not to exceed $7.0 million with respect to any fiscal year. Based on our results for fiscal year 2011, a required payment
of $7.0 million was due by May 2012 and was paid in January 2012. A payment of $7.0 million was also made in January 2011 for fiscal
year 2010. The amount payable under this provision as of September 30, 2011 was classified as short-term debt.
 
Equipment Financing Facilities
 
As of September 30, 2012, there was a total
of $11.2 million outstanding under prior equipment financing facilities, with fixed interest rates ranging from 3.3% to 7.1% and
payments due through September 2017.
 
Subsequent to September 30, 2012, we entered
into a new equipment financing facility that provides financing for up to $30 million of purchased transportation and material
handling equipment through October 1, 2014. The applicable interest rate at the time of the advances will be approximately 1.26%
above the 3-year term swap rate for 5-year loans and 1.21% above the 4-year term swap rate for 7-year loans.
 
Contractual Obligations
 
At September 30, 2012, contractual obligations
were as follows (in millions):
 

-29-
 

 


  
Fiscal years 

  
2013  
2014  
2015  
2016  
2017  
Thereafter 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Senior bank debt and revolver 
$52.5  
$11.3  
$11.3  
$11.3  
$174.3  
$- 

Equipment financing 
 4.4  
 3.4  
 1.5  
 1.1  
 0.8  
 - 

Operating leases 
 28.5  
 26.2  
 20.5  
 13.8  
 6.8  
 3.7 

Interest (1) 
 7.1  
 7.7  
 7.2  
 6.8  
 3.3  
 - 

Non-cancelable purchase obligations (2) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$92.5  
$48.6  
$40.5  
$33.0  
$185.2  
$3.7 

 

(1)Interest payments reflect all currently scheduled amounts along with projected amounts to be paid under the senior bank debt
using a LIBOR Curve to estimate the future interest rates and considering our current interest rate hedges.

(2)In general, we purchase products under purchase obligations that are cancelable by us without cost or expire after 30 days.
 
Capital Expenditures
 
We incurred capital expenditures of $17.4,
$14.4 and $10.3 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Typically, over 80% of our capital expenditures have generally
been made for transportation and material handling equipment. In 2010, we incurred a lower spend rate (with capital expenditures
at 0.6% of sales) as we reduced capital expenditures due to the business slowdown. We currently expect future annual capital expenditures
to be approximately 1% of net sales, exclusive of the impact of new branch openings and assuming improved economic and industry
conditions.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.
 
Critical accounting policies
 
  Critical accounting policies are
those that are both important to the accurate portrayal of a company's financial condition and results and require subjective or
complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
 
In order to prepare financial statements
that conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, commonly referred to as U.S. GAAP, we make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. Certain estimates are particularly
sensitive due to their significance to the financial statements and the possibility that future events may be significantly different
from our expectations.
 
We have identified the following accounting
policies that require us to make the most subjective or complex judgments in order to fairly present our consolidated financial
position and results of operations.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
We account for employee and non-employee
director stock-based compensation using the fair value method of accounting. Compensation cost arising from stock options and restricted
stock awards granted to employees and non-employee directors is recognized using the straight-line method over the vesting period,
which represents the requisite service or performance period. In calculating the expense related to stock-based compensation, we
estimate option forfeitures and project the number of restricted shares and units that are
expected to vest based on the related performance measures. In addition, we
report the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost as both a financing cash inflow and an operating
cash outflow. The excess tax benefit classified as a financing activity would have been classified as an operating inflow if we
did not use the fair value method.
 

-30-
 

 
Interest Rate Swaps
 
We enter into interest rate swaps to minimize
the risks and costs associated with financing activities, as well as to maintain an appropriate mix of fixed-and floating-rate
debt. The swap agreements are contracts to exchange variable-rate for fixed-interest rate payments over the life of the agreements.
For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, we record the effective portions of changes in their fair value, net
of taxes, in other comprehensive income. The effectiveness of the hedges is periodically assessed by management during the lives
of the hedges by 1) comparing the current terms of the hedges with the related hedged debt to assure they continue to coincide
and 2) through an evaluation of the ability of the counterparties to the hedges to honor their obligations under the hedges. Any
ineffective portions of the hedges are recognized in earnings through interest expense and other financing costs.
 
Our refinancing transaction
on April 5, 2012, resulted in hedge ineffectiveness on the derivative instruments that expire in April 2013, as the underlying
term debt being hedged was repaid before the expiration of the derivative instruments. This resulted in a charge to interest expense
and other financing costs in the third quarter of 2012 for the fair value of the derivative instruments previously recorded as
a component of comprehensive loss. Subsequent changes in the fair value of those swaps are also being recognized in interest expense
and other financing costs. Our new derivative instrument entered into in 2012 is designated as a cash flow hedge, for which we
record the effective portions of changes in its fair value, net of tax, in other comprehensive income.
 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 
We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts
for estimated losses due to the failure of our customers to make required payments. We charge write-offs against our allowance
for doubtful accounts, although we still pursue collection in certain circumstances and credit the allowance for any subsequent
recoveries.
 
Inventory Valuation
  
Product inventories represent one of our
largest assets and are recorded at net realizable value. Our goal is to manage our inventory so that we minimize out of stock positions.
To do this, we maintain an adequate inventory of SKUs at each branch based on sales history. At the same time, we continuously
strive to better manage our slower moving classes of inventory. We monitor our inventory levels by branch and record provisions
for excess inventories based on slower moving inventory. We define potential excess inventory as the amount of inventory on hand
in excess of the historical usage, excluding items purchased in the last three months. We then review our most recent history of
sales and adjustments of such excess inventory and apply our judgment as to forecasted demand and other factors, including liquidation
value, to determine the required adjustments to net realizable value. In addition, at the end of each year, we evaluate our inventory
at each branch and write off and dispose of obsolete products. Our inventories are generally not susceptible to technological obsolescence.
 
During the year, we perform periodic cycle
counts and write off excess or damaged inventory as needed. At year-end, we take a physical inventory and record any necessary
additional write-offs.
 
Vendor Rebates
 
Our typical rebate arrangements with our
vendors provide for us to receive a rebate of a specified amount, payable to us after we make a special purchase or after we achieve
any of a number of measures generally related to the volume of our purchases over a period of time, usually quarterly or annually.
We account for these rebates as a reduction of the prices of the related vendors' products, which reduces the inventory cost until
the period in which we sell the product, at which time these rebates reduce cost of sales in our income statement. Throughout the
year, we estimate the amount of rebates receivable for the periodic programs based upon the expected level of purchases. We continually
revise these estimates to reflect actual rebates earned based on actual purchase levels. Historically, our actual rebates have
been within our expectations used for our estimates. If we fail to achieve a measure which is required to obtain a vendor rebate,
we will have to record a charge in the period that we determine the criteria or measure for the vendor rebate will not be met to
the extent the vendor rebate was estimated and included as a reduction to cost of sales.
 
If market conditions were to change, vendors
may change the terms of some or all of these programs. Although these changes would not affect the amounts which we have recorded
related to products already purchased, it may impact our gross margin on products we sell or revenues earned in future periods.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
We recognize revenue
when the following four basic criteria are met:
 

•persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists;

•delivery has occurred or services have been rendered;

•the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and

•collectability is reasonably assured.
 

-31-
 

 
We generally recognize revenue at the point
of sale or upon delivery to the customer's site. For goods shipped by third party carriers, we recognize revenue upon shipment
since the terms are FOB shipping point. Approximately 82% of our revenues are for products delivered by us or picked up by our
customers at our facilities, which provides for timely and accurate revenue recognition.
 
We also ship certain products directly from
the manufacturer to the customer. Revenues are recognized upon notifications of deliveries from our vendors. Delays in receiving
delivery notifications could impact our financial results, although it has not been material to our consolidated results of operations
in the past.
 
We also provide certain job site delivery
services, which include crane rentals and rooftop deliveries of certain products, for which the associated revenues are recognized
upon completion of the services. These revenues represent less than 1% of our net sales.
 
All revenues recognized are net of sales
taxes collected, allowances for discounts and estimated returns, which are provided for at the time of pick up or delivery. In
the past, customer returns have not been material to our consolidated results of operations. All sales taxes collected are subsequently
remitted to the appropriate government authorities.
  
Income Taxes
 
We account for income taxes using the liability
method, which requires us to recognize a current tax liability or asset for current taxes payable or refundable and a deferred
tax liability or asset for the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax reporting
bases of assets and liabilities to the extent that they are realizable. Deferred tax expense (benefit) results from the net change
in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year. See the “2011 compared to 2010” income taxes discussion above
and Note 12 for a discussion of the impact from a change in the tax status of our Canadian operations in 2011.
 
FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes (“ASC
740”) prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement
of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Based on this guidance, we analyze our filing positions in
all of the federal and state jurisdictions where we are required to file income tax returns, as well as all open tax years in these
jurisdictions. Tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are recognized if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable
based solely on its technical merits.
 
Goodwill
 
We test goodwill for impairment in the fourth
quarter of each fiscal year or at any other time when impairment indicators exist. Examples of such indicators include a significant
change in the business climate, unexpected competition, loss of key personnel or a decline in our market capitalization below our
net book value.
 
As discussed below, we adopted guidance
in 2011 that permits companies to perform a qualitative assessment based on economic, industry and company-specific factors as
the initial step in the annual goodwill impairment test for all or selected reporting units. Based on the results of the qualitative
assessment, companies are only required to perform Step 1 of the annual impairment test for a reporting unit if the company concludes
that it is more likely than not that the unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount.
 
To the extent we conclude it is more likely
than not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount, the two-step approach is applied. The first
step would require a comparison of each reporting unit’s fair value to the respective carrying value. If the carrying value
exceeds the fair value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any.
 
We assess goodwill for impairment at the
reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component
(i.e. a business for which discrete financial information is available and regularly reviewed by component managers). We currently
have five components which we evaluate for aggregation.
 
We evaluate the distribution methods, sales
mix, and operating results of each of our components to determine if these characteristics have or will be sustained over a long-term
basis. For purposes of this evaluation, we would expect our components to exhibit similar economic characteristics 3-5 years after
events such as an acquisition within our core roofing business or management/business restructuring. This evaluation also considers
major storm activity or local economic challenges that may impact the short term operations of an individual component. Components
that exhibit similar economic characteristic are subsequently aggregated into a single reporting unit.
 
Based on our evaluation at August 31, 2012,
one of the five components did not exhibit similar economic characteristics and therefore was individually evaluated for goodwill
impairment as a separate reporting unit (the “Individual Reporting Unit”). This was primarily due to the fact that
this component had an above-average concentration of residential business that provided gross margin and operating income rates
well above the Company average. The remaining components were aggregated into a second reporting unit (the “Aggregated Reporting
Unit”). The Individual Reporting Unit represents approximately 11% of the consolidated operating income, while the Aggregated
Reporting Unit comprises the remaining 89%.
 

-32-
 

 
We
concluded that the fair values for both the Aggregated and Individual Reporting Unit more likely than not exceeded their respective
carrying values at the goodwill measurement date. This position is consistent with the 2012 operating results in which sales and
operating income for the Aggregated Reporting Unit exceeded those in the prior year by 16% and 51%, respectively. In addition,
sales and operating income for the Individual Reporting Unit exceeded those in the prior year by 4% and 2%, respectively. We further
expect both the Aggregated and Individual Reporting units to experience moderate growth in the near future. Our
analysis further noted the total market capitalization exceeded the Company’s carrying value by approximately 105% at August
31, 2012. This compares to 62% for that same measure at August 31, 2011. In addition, we did not identify any macroeconomic or
industry conditions or cost related factors that would indicate the fair values of the two reporting units were more likely than
not to be less than their respective carrying values.
 
Lastly, there have been no events or circumstances
since the date of the above assessments that would change our conclusion. If circumstances change or events occur to indicate it
is more likely than not that the fair values of any of our reporting units (under the guidelines discussed above) have fallen below
their carrying values, we would test such reporting units for impairment.
 
Adoption of Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In July 2012, the FASB issued Accounting
Standards No. 2012-02, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment,
which permits an entity the option first to assess qualitative factors to determine
whether the existence of events and circumstances indicates that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible
asset is impaired. If, after assessing the totality of events and circumstances, an entity concludes that it is not more likely
than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the entity is not required to take further action. However,
if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset and
perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value with the carrying amount in accordance with Subtopic 350-30.
An entity also has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and
proceed directly to performing the quantitative impairment test. An entity will be able to resume performing the qualitative assessment
in any subsequent period. The amendments are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning
after September 15, 2012. We early adopted this Update for our review of our other intangible assets for 2012.
 
In September 2011, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards No. 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill
for Impairment, which permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to
perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than
50 percent. Previous guidance under Topic 350 required an entity to test goodwill for impairment, on at least an annual basis,
by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill (step one). If the fair value of a
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the second step of the test must be performed to measure the amount of the
impairment loss, if any. Under the amendments in this Update, an entity is not required to calculate the fair value of a reporting
unit unless the entity determines that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. This Update
is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early
adoption is permitted, including for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed as of a date before September 15, 2011,
if an entity’s financial statements for the most recent annual or interim period have not yet been issued. We early adopted
this Update for our goodwill impairment testing for 2011 as described under “Goodwill” above.
 
In December 2010, the FASB issued Accounting
Standards No. 2010-29, an amendment to Business Combinations (Topic 805) – Disclosure of Supplementary Pro
Forma Information for Business Combinations, which specifies that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements,
the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during
the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The amendments in this
Update also expand the supplemental pro forma disclosures under Topic 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of
material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma
revenue and earnings. The Update is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on
or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. Our adoption of this Update
in 2012 did not have an impact on the financial statements.
 

-33-
 

 
In December 2010, the FASB issued Accounting
Standards No. 2010-28 an amendment to Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): When to Perform Step 2 of the
Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues
Task Force).  The new guidance modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying
amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely
than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that goodwill impairment exists,
an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. The qualitative
factors are consistent with the existing guidance and examples in paragraph 350-20-35-30, which require that goodwill of a reporting
unit be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce
the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.  The amendment is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods
within those years, beginning after December 15, 2010. Our adoption of this amendment in 2012 did not have an impact on the financial
statements.
 
In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-13,
Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends the criteria for allocating a contract's
consideration to individual services or products in multiple deliverable arrangements. This guidance was effective for us beginning
in 2011 but did not have an impact on the financial statements.
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued Financial
Accounting Statement (FAS) 166 , Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, and FAS 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation
No. 46(R) , codified as Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-17 (ASU 2009-17), which changes the way entities account for securitizations
and special purpose entities. Both statements were effective for us beginning in 2011 but did not have an impact on the financial
statements.
 
Other Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In October 2012, the FASB issued Accounting
Standards No. 2012-04—Technical Corrections and Improvements, which includes
certain corrections to the Accounting Standards Codification and amendments that identify when the use of fair value should
be linked to the definition of fair value in Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement. This Update contains conforming amendments
to the Codification to reflect the measurement and disclosure requirements of Topic 820. The amendments in this Update that will
not have transition guidance are effective for us upon issuance. The amendments that are subject to the transition guidance will
be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2012. This new guidance may only affect the way in which we reference
and report accounting and reporting standards.
 
In December 2011, the FASB issued Accounting
Standards No. 2011-11, Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities, which requires
an entity to disclose certain information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of its financial statements
to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial position. An entity is required to apply the amendments in this
Update for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. An
entity should provide the disclosures required by those amendments retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. We do
not expect the adoption of this Update to have an impact on the financial statements. The FASB has clarified the scope of ASU 2011-11
and proposed to limit the disclosures to derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements and reverse sale and repurchase agreements,
and securities borrowing and lending arrangements.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05,
Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which provides an entity with the option to present
the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single
continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In a single continuous statement, the
entity is required to present the components of net income and total net income, the components of other comprehensive income and
a total for other comprehensive income, along with the total of comprehensive income in that statement. In the two-statement approach,
an entity is required to present components of net income and total net income in the statement of net income. The statement of
other comprehensive income should immediately follow the statement of net income and include the components of other comprehensive
income and a total for other comprehensive income, along with a total for comprehensive income. These changes apply to both annual
and interim financial statements. The amendments in ASU 2011-05 should be applied retrospectively. The amendments are effective
for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, however Accounting Standards No. 2011-12,
issued by the FASB in December 2011, has deferred the effective date of the portions of this Update that relate to the presentation
of reclassification adjustments. Early adoption is permitted. We do not currently expect the adoption of ASU 2011-05 to have a
significant impact on our financial position and results of operations.
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04,
Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S.
GAAP and IFRSs, which changes the wording used to describe the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing
information about fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15,
2011, and should be applied prospectively. We do not currently expect the adoption of this standard to have a significant impact
on the financial statements.
 

-34-
 

 
ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
We are exposed to certain market risks as
part of our on-going business operations. Our primary exposure includes changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
Our interest rate risk relates primarily
to the variable-rate borrowings under our Credit Facility. The following discussion of our interest rate swaps (see "Financial
Derivatives" below) is based on a 10% change in interest rates. These changes are hypothetical scenarios used to calibrate
potential risk and do not represent our view of future market changes. As the hypothetical figures discussed below indicate, changes
in fair value based on the assumed change in rates generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption
to the change in fair value may not be linear. The effect of a variation in a particular assumption is calculated without changing
any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which may magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
 
At September 30, 2012, we had $219.4 and
$41.3 million of outstanding term loans and revolver borrowings, respectively, under our Credit Facility, and $11.2 million of
equipment financing outstanding. Our weighted-average effective interest rate was 2.12% on total debt at September 30, 2012 compared
to 4.01% on total debt outstanding at September 30, 2011. At September 30, 2012, a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates
in effect at that date would have increased annual interest expense by $0.5 million.
 
We enter into interest rate swaps to minimize
the risks and costs associated with financing activities, as well as to maintain an appropriate mix of fixed-and floating-rate
debt. The swap agreements discussed below are contracts to exchange variable-rate for fixed-interest rate payments over the life
of the agreements. The aggregate fair value of these swaps represented an unrealized loss of $8.6 million at September 30,
2012. A hypothetical increase (or decrease) of 10% in interest rates from the level in effect at September 30, 2012, would result
in an aggregate realized gain or (loss) in value of the swaps of less than $0.1 million or ($0.1) million, respectively, and
an aggregate unrealized gain or (loss) in value of the swaps of approximately $0.8 million or ($0.8) million, respectively.
 
Financial Derivatives
 
We use derivative financial instruments
to manage its exposure related to fluctuating cash flows from changes in interest rates. Use of derivative financial instruments
in hedging programs subjects us to certain risks, such as market and credit risks. Market risk represents the possibility that
the value of the derivative instrument will change. In a hedging relationship, the change in the value of the derivative is offset
to a great extent by the change in the value of the underlying hedged item. Credit risk related to derivatives represents the possibility
that the counterparty will not fulfill the terms of the contract. The notional, or contractual, amount of our derivative financial
instruments is used to measure interest to be paid or received and does not represent our exposure due to credit risk. Our current
derivative instruments are with large financial counterparties rated highly by nationally recognized credit rating agencies.
 
  We use interest rate derivative instruments
to manage the risk related to fluctuating cash flows from interest rate changes by converting a portion of its variable-rate borrowings
into fixed-rate borrowings. As of September 30, 2012, our outstanding interest rate derivative instruments included: a) a
$100 million interest rate swap with interest payments at a fixed rate of 2.72%; b) a $50 million interest rate swap
with interest payments at a fixed rate of 3.12%; and c) a $50 million interest rate swap with interest payments at a fixed
rate of 3.11%. These interest rate swaps expire in April 2013 and, as discussed further below, were designated as cash flow hedges
until our refinancing. In addition, on April 9, 2012, we entered into a new interest rate derivative instrument consisting of a
$213.8 million interest rate swap with interest payments at a fixed rate of 1.38%, commencing on June 28, 2013. This new interest
rate swap is designated as a cash flow hedge and amortizes at $2.8 million per quarter beginning on June 28, 2013 and expires on
March 31, 2017.
 
For derivative instruments designated as
cash flow hedges, we record the effective portions of changes in their fair value, net of taxes, in other comprehensive income.
The effectiveness of the hedges is periodically assessed by management during the lives of the hedges by 1) comparing the current
terms of the hedges with the related hedged debt to assure they continue to coincide and 2) through an evaluation of the ability
of the counterparties to the hedges to honor their obligations under the hedges. Any ineffective portions of the hedges are recognized
in earnings through interest expense and other financing costs. Our refinancing transaction on April 5, 2012 resulted in hedge
ineffectiveness on the derivative instruments that expire in April 2013, as the underlying term debt being hedged was repaid before
the expiration of the derivative instruments. This resulted in a $4.9 million charge to interest expense and other financing costs
in the third quarter of 2012 for the fair value of the derivative instruments previously recorded as a component of comprehensive
loss. Subsequent changes in the fair value of those swaps are also being recognized in interest expense and other financing costs
and there was a decline of $2.3 million in the fair value of the ineffective swaps in the second half of 2012 that was recognized
as a reduction to interest expense and other financing costs.
 

-35-
 

 
We record any differences paid or received
on its interest rate hedges as adjustments to interest expense. The table below presents the combined fair values of the interest
rate derivative instruments:
 


  
  
Unrealized Losses  
 

  
Location on 
September 30,  
September 30,  
 

Instrument 
Balance Sheet 
2012  
2011  
Fair Value Hierarchy

  
  
(Dollars in thousands)  
 

  
  
   
   
 

Designated interest rate swaps (effective) 
Accrued expenses 
$6,005  
$7,235  
 

Non-designated interest rate swaps (ineffective) 
Accrued expenses 
 2,621  
 -  
 

  
  
    
    
Level 2

  
  
$8,626  
$7,235  
 


 
The fair values of the interest rate hedges
were determined through the use of pricing models, which utilize verifiable inputs such as market interest rates that are observable
at commonly quoted intervals (generally referred to as the “LIBOR Curve”) for the full terms of the hedge agreements.
These values reflect a Level 2 measurement under the applicable fair value hierarchy.
 
The table below presents the amounts of
gain (loss) on the interest rate derivative instruments recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI):
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in OCI (net of tax) 
    
   

Designated interest rate swaps 
$(3,660) 
$(4,408)

Non-designated interest rate swaps (reclassified from accumulated OCI) 
 2,984  
 - 

 
The table below presents the amounts of
gain (loss) on the interest rate derivative instruments recognized in interest expense and other financing costs:
 


Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Interest Expense 
    
   

Non-designated interest rate swaps 
$2,311  
$- 

Non-designated interest rate swaps (reclassified from accumulated OCI) 
 (4,932) 
 - 

  
    
   

  
$(2,621) 
$- 

 
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
 
We have exposure to foreign currency exchange
rate fluctuations for revenues generated by our operations outside the United States, which can adversely impact our net income
and cash flows. Approximately 7% of our revenues in 2012 were derived from sales to customers in Canada. This business is primarily
conducted in the local currency. This exposes us to risks associated with changes in foreign currency that can adversely affect
revenues, net income and cash flows. We do not enter into financial instruments to manage this foreign currency exchange risk.
 

-36-
 

 
ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
 
  Index to consolidated
financial statements
 


 
Page

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
38

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2012 and 2011
39

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010
40

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010
41

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010
42

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
43

 

-37-
 

 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. (the Company) as of September 30, 2012 and 2011 and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 2012. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
at September 30, 2012 and 2011, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended September 30, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting
as of September 30, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated November 29, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
Boston, Massachusetts
November 29, 2012
 

-38-
 

 


 
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
 
Consolidated Balance
Sheets
 


  
September 30,  
September 30, 

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data) 
2012  
2011 

  
    
   

Assets 
    
   

Current assets: 
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$40,205  
$143,027 

Accounts receivable, less allowances of $13,464 in 2012 and $13,816 in 2011 
 291,456  
 280,322 

Inventories 
 222,740  
 202,474 

Prepaid expenses and other current assets 
 60,287  
 37,573 

Deferred income taxes 
 16,087  
 15,469 

  
    
   

Total current assets 
 630,775  
 678,865 

  
    
   

Property and equipment, net 
 57,376  
 47,427 

Goodwill 
 443,161  
 380,916 

Other assets, net 
 85,670  
 49,756 

  
    
   

Total assets 
$1,216,982  
$1,156,964 

  
    
   

Liabilities and stockholders' equity 
    
   

Current liabilities: 
    
   

Accounts payable 
$167,390  
$182,523 

Accrued expenses 
 71,627  
 69,906 

Current portions of long-term obligations 
 56,932  
 15,605 

Total current liabilities 
 295,949  
 268,034 

  
    
   

Senior notes payable, net of current portion 
 208,125  
 301,544 

Deferred income taxes 
 48,196  
 38,992 

Long-term obligations under equipment financing and other, net of current portion 
 12,750  
 9,967 

  
    
   

Commitments and contingencies (Notes 9 and 14) 
    
   

  
    
   

Stockholders' equity: 
    
   

Common stock (voting); $.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized; 47,775,180 issued and 47,667,147 outstanding at September 30, 2012; and 46,262,140 issued and 46,154,107 outstanding at September 30, 2011; and 
 477  
 462 

Undesignated Preferred Stock; 5,000,000 shares authorized, none issued or outstanding 
 -  
 - 

Additional paid-in capital 
 280,184  
 248,260 

Retained earnings 
 368,675  
 293,110 

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
 2,626  
 (3,405)

Total stockholders' equity 
 651,962  
 538,427 

  
    
   

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity 
$1,216,982  
$1,156,964 

 
See accompanying notes.
 

-39-
 

  
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
 
Consolidated Statements
of Operations
 


  
Year Ended September 30, 

  
   
   
  

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
(Dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

  
   
   
  

Net sales 
$2,043,658  
$1,817,423  
$1,609,969 

Cost of products sold 
 1,542,254  
 1,397,798  
 1,249,869 

  
    
    
   

Gross profit 
 501,404  
 419,625  
 360,100 

  
    
    
   

Operating expenses 
 357,732  
 315,883  
 286,583 

  
    
    
   

Income from operations 
 143,672  
 103,742  
 73,517 

  
    
    
   

Interest expense and other financing costs 
 17,173  
 13,364  
 18,210 

  
    
    
   

Income before provision for income taxes 
 126,499  
 90,378  
 55,307 

Provision for income taxes 
 50,934  
 31,158  
 20,781 

  
    
    
   

Net income 
$75,565  
$59,220  
$34,526 

  
    
    
   

Net income per share: 
    
    
   

Basic 
$1.62  
$1.29  
$0.76 

Diluted 
$1.58  
$1.27  
$0.75 

  
    
    
   

Weighted average shares used in computing net income per share: 
    
    
   

Basic 
 46,718,948  
 45,919,198  
 45,480,922 

Diluted 
 47,840,967  
 46,753,152  
 46,031,593 

 
See accompanying notes.
 

-40-
 

 
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
Equity and Comprehensive Income
 


  
Common
    Stock  
Additional  
   
Other  
Total 

  
Number  
   
Paid-in  
Retained  
Comprehensive  
Stockholders' 

(Dollars in thousands, except
    share data) 
of
    Shares  
Amount  
Capital  
Earnings  
Income
    (Loss)  
Equity 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Balances at September 30, 2009 
 45,244,837  
 452  
 226,793  
 199,364  
 (3,036) 
 423,573 

Issuance of common stock 
 419,021  
 5  
 4,342  
    
    
 4,347 

Stock-based compensation 
    
    
 5,001  
    
    
 5,001 

Net income 
    
    
    
 34,526  
    
 34,526 

Foreign currency translation adjustment 
    
    
    
    
 1,731  
   

Tax effect 
    
    
    
    
 (911) 
   

Foreign currency translation
    adjustment, net 
    
    
    
    
 820  
 820 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Unrealized gain on financial derivatives 
    
    
    
    
 1,264  
   

Tax effect 
    
    
    
    
 (687) 
   

Unrealized gain on financial
    derivatives, net 
    
    
    
    
 577  
 577 

Comprehensive income 
    
    
    
    
    
 35,923 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balances at September 30, 2010 
 45,663,858  
 457  
 236,136# 
 233,890  
 (1,639) 
 468,844 

Issuance of common stock 
 490,249  
 5  
 6,051  
    
    
 6,056 

Stock-based compensation 
    
    
 6,073  
    
    
 6,073 

Net income 
    
    
    
 59,220  
    
 59,220 

Foreign currency translation adjustment 
    
    
    
    
 (4,162) 
 (4,162)

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Unrealized gain on financial derivatives 
    
    
    
    
 3,849  
   

Tax effect 
    
    
    
    
 (1,453) 
   

Unrealized gain on financial
    derivatives, net 
    
    
    
    
 2,396  
 2,396 

Comprehensive income 
    
    
    
    
    
 57,454 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balances at September 30, 2011 
 46,154,107  
 462  
 248,260# 
 293,110  
 (3,405) 
 538,427 

Issuance of common stock 
 1,513,040  
 15  
 24,051  
    
    
 24,066 

Stock-based compensation 
    
    
 7,873  
    
    
 7,873 

Net income 
    
    
    
 75,565  
    
 75,565 

Foreign currency translation adjustment 
    
    
    
    
 5,283  
 5,283 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Unrealized gain on financial derivatives 
    
    
    
    
 1,231  
   

Tax effect 
    
    
    
    
 (483) 
   

Unrealized gain on financial derivatives, net 
    
    
    
    
 748  
 748 

Comprehensive income 
    
    
    
    
    
 81,596 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balances at September 30, 2012 
 47,667,147  
$477  
$280,184  
$368,675  
$2,626  
$651,962 

 
See accompanying notes.
 

-41-
 

 
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 


  
Year Ended September 30, 

(In thousands) 
   
   
  

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
  

Operating activities 
    
    
   

Net income 
$75,565  
$59,220  
$34,526 

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: 
    
    
   

Depreciation and amortization 
 24,353  
 25,060  
 27,773 

Stock-based compensation 
 7,873  
 6,073  
 5,001 

Adjustment of liability for contingent consideration 
 250  
 -  
 - 

Certain interest expense and other financing costs 
 4,359  
 -  
 - 

Gain on sale of fixed assets 
 (1,278) 
 (750) 
 (587)

Deferred income taxes 
 7,700  
 (465) 
 3,060 

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of the effects of businesses acquired: 
    
    
   

Accounts receivable 
 19,804  
 (35,314) 
 (6,486)

Inventories 
 13,338  
 (35,016) 
 40,952 

Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 (22,448) 
 7,470  
 8,723 

Accounts payable and accrued expenses 
 (44,155) 
 53,012  
 (39,051)

Net cash provided by operating activities 
 85,361  
 79,290  
 73,911 

  
    
    
   

Investing activities 
    
    
   

Purchases of property and equipment 
 (17,404) 
 (14,433) 
 (10,268)

Acquisition of businesses 
 (141,049) 
 (34,942) 
 (19,328)

Proceeds from sales of assets 
 1,418  
 1,543  
 748 

Net cash used in investing activities 
 (157,035) 
 (47,832) 
 (28,848)

  
    
    
   

Financing activities 
    
    
   

Borrowings (repayments) under revolving lines of credit, net 
 41,272  
 (50) 
 67 

Borrowings under senior notes payable 
 225,000  
 -  
 - 

Repayments under senior notes payable and other, net 
 (316,785) 
 (11,053) 
 (15,193)

Payment of deferred financing costs 
 (5,377) 
 -  
 - 

Proceeds from exercise of options 
 21,478  
 5,302  
 3,561 

Income tax benefit from stock-based compensation deductions in excess of the associated compensation cost 
 2,588  
 756  
 786 

Net cash used by financing activities 
 (31,824) 
 (5,045) 
 (10,779)

  
    
    
   

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 
 676  
 (522) 
 110 

  
    
    
   

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
 (102,822) 
 25,891  
 34,394 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 143,027  
 117,136  
 82,742 

  
    
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$40,205  
$143,027  
$117,136 

  
    
    
   

Cash paid during the year for: 
    
    
   

Interest 
$11,636  
$13,524  
$20,560 

Income taxes, net of refunds 
$55,813  
$23,855  
$16,907 

 
See accompanying notes
 

-42-
 

 
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
Year Ended September 30, 2012
 
(dollars in thousands, except per share
data or as otherwise indicated)
 


1.
The Company

 
Business
 
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. (the "Company"),
which was formed on August 22, 1997, distributes roofing materials and other complementary building materials to customers
in 38 states and six provinces in Canada and is incorporated in Delaware. The Company operates its business under regional and
local trade names. The Company’s current subsidiaries are Beacon Sales Acquisition, Inc., Beacon Canada, Inc. and Beacon
Roofing Supply Canada Company.
 
Estimates
 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosures of contingent
assets and liabilities, at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.
 
Adoption of Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In July 2012, the FASB issued Accounting Standards No. 2012-02,
Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment, which
permits an entity the option first to assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances
indicates that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If, after assessing the totality
of events and circumstances, an entity concludes that it is not more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset
is impaired, then the entity is not required to take further action. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required
to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing
the fair value with the carrying amount in accordance with Subtopic 350-30. An entity also has the option to bypass the qualitative
assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative impairment
test. An entity will be able to resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. The Company early adopted
this Update for the review of other intangible assets for fiscal year 2012 as described under “Amortizable and Other Intangible
Assets” in Note 2.
 
In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued Accounting Standards No. 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment,
which permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value
of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step
goodwill impairment test. The more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. Previous
guidance under Topic 350 required an entity to test goodwill for impairment, on at least an annual basis, by comparing the fair
value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill (step one). If the fair value of a reporting unit is less
than its carrying amount, then the second step of the test must be performed to measure the amount of the impairment loss, if any.
Under the amendments in this Update, an entity is not required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity
determines that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. The Company early adopted this
Update for goodwill impairment testing for fiscal year 2011 as described under “Goodwill” in Note 2. 
 
In December 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards No. 2010-29,
an amendment to Business Combinations (Topic 805) – Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for
Business Combinations, which specifies that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should
disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year
had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The amendments in this Update also expand
the supplemental pro forma disclosures under Topic 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring
pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. The
Company adopted this Update for fiscal year 2012 but it did not have an impact on the financial statements.
 

-43-
 

 
In December 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards No. 2010-28
an amendment to Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment
Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force). 
The new guidance modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For
those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that
a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that goodwill impairment exists, an entity should
consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. The qualitative factors are
consistent with the existing guidance and examples in paragraph 350-20-35-30, which require that goodwill of a reporting unit be
tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the
fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The Company’s adoption of this amendment for fiscal year 2012
did not have an impact on the financial statements.
 
In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-13,
Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends the criteria for allocating a contract's
consideration to individual services or products in multiple deliverable arrangements. This guidance was effective for the Company
beginning in fiscal year 2011 but did not have an impact on the financial statements.
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued Financial
Accounting Statement (FAS) 166 , Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, and FAS 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation
No. 46(R) , codified as Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-17 (ASU 2009-17), which changes the way entities account for securitizations
and special purpose entities. Both statements were effective for the Company beginning in fiscal year 2011 but did not have an
impact on the financial statements.
 


2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

 
Consolidation
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All inter-company transactions have been eliminated. Certain reclassifications have
been made to the prior year information to conform to the current year presentation.
 
Fiscal Year
 
The fiscal years presented are the years ended September 30,
2012 ("2012"), September 30, 2011 (“2011”), and September 30, 2010 ("2010"). Each of the Company's
first three quarters ends on the last day of the calendar month.
 
Industry Segment Information
 
Based on qualitative and quantitative criteria, the Company
has determined that it operates within one reportable segment, which is the wholesale distribution of building materials. 
Please refer to the “Goodwill” summary below for discussion of the Company’s reporting units and the related
impairment review.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturities
of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents also include unsettled credit card transactions. 
Cash equivalents are comprised of money market funds which invest primarily in commercial paper or bonds with a rating of A-1 or
better, and bank certificates of deposit.
 
Inventories and Rebates
 
Inventories, consisting substantially of finished goods, are
valued at the lower of cost or market (net realizable value). Cost is determined using the moving weighted-average cost method.
 

-44-
 

 
The Company's arrangements with vendors typically provide for
rebates after we make a special purchase and/or monthly, quarterly and/or annual rebates of a specified amount of consideration
payable when a number of measures have been achieved, generally related to a specified cumulative level of calendar-year purchases.
The Company accounts for such rebates as a reduction of the inventory value until the product is sold, at which time such rebates
reduce cost of sales in the consolidated statements of operations. Throughout the year, the Company estimates the amount of the
periodic rebates based upon the expected level of purchases. The Company continually revises these estimates to reflect actual
rebates earned based on actual purchase levels. Amounts due from vendors under these arrangements as of September 30, 2012 and
September 30, 2011 totaled $37.4 and $31.8 million, respectively, and are included in "Prepaid expenses and other current
assets" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
Property and Equipment
 
Property and equipment acquired in connection with acquisitions
are recorded at fair value as of the date of the acquisition and depreciated utilizing the straight-line method over the remaining
lives. All other additions are recorded at cost, and depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the following
estimated useful lives:
 


Asset
 
Estimated Useful Life

Buildings and improvements
 
10 to 40 years

Equipment
 
3 to 10 years

Furniture and fixtures
 
5 to 10 years

Leasehold improvements
 
Shorter of the estimated useful life or the term of the lease, considering renewal options expected to be exercised.

 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Company recognizes revenue when the following four basic
criteria are met:
 


 
•
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists;

 
•
delivery has occurred or services have been rendered;

 
•
the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and

 
•
collectability is reasonably assured.

 
Based on these criteria, the Company generally recognizes revenue
at the point of sale or upon delivery to the customer site. For goods shipped by third party carriers, the Company recognizes revenue
upon shipment since the terms are generally FOB shipping point. The Company also arranges for certain products to be shipped directly
from the manufacturer to the customer. The Company recognizes the gross revenue for these sales upon notifications of deliveries
from the vendors.
 
The Company also provides certain job site delivery services,
which include crane rentals and rooftop deliveries of certain products, for which the associated revenues are recognized upon completion
of the services. These revenues represent less than 1% of the Company's sales.
 
All revenues recognized are net of sales taxes collected, allowances
for discounts and estimated returns. Sales taxes collected are subsequently remitted to the appropriate government authorities.
 
Shipping and Handling Costs
 
The Company classifies shipping and handling costs, consisting
of driver wages and vehicle expenses, as operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Shipping
and handling costs were approximately $85,888 in 2012, $75,172 in 2011, and $67,528 in 2010.
 
Financial Derivatives
 
The Company enters into interest rate swaps to minimize the
risks and costs associated with financing activities, as well as to maintain an appropriate mix of fixed-rate and floating-rate
debt. The swap agreements are contracts to exchange variable-rate for fixed-interest rate payments over the life of the agreements.
The Company's current derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges, for which the Company records the effective portions
of changes in their fair value, net of tax, in other comprehensive income. The Company recognizes any ineffective portion of the
hedges in earnings through interest expense and other financing costs. The Company’s refinancing transaction in April 2012
resulted in hedge ineffectiveness on the derivative instruments that expire in April 2013, as the underlying term debt being hedged
was repaid before the expiration of the derivative instruments.
 

-45-
 

 
Concentrations of Risk
 
Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company
to concentration of credit risk, consist principally of accounts receivable. The Company's accounts receivable are primarily from
customers in the building industry located in the United States and Canada. Concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts
receivable is limited due to the large number of customers comprising the Company's customer base. The Company performs credit
evaluations of its customers; however, the Company's policy is not to require collateral. At September 30, 2012 and 2011, the Company
had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
 
The Company purchases a major portion of its products from a
small number of vendors. Approximately two-thirds of the Company's total cost of inventory purchases was from 12 vendors in 2012,
9 vendors in 2011, and 10 vendors in 2010. In addition, more than 10% of the total cost of purchases was made from each of three
vendors in 2012, 2011 and 2010.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
 
Impairment losses are required to be recorded on long-lived
assets when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are
less than the assets' carrying value. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is the total
by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the assets.
 
Amortizable and Other Intangible Assets
 
The Company amortizes its identifiable intangible assets, currently
consisting of non-compete agreements, customer relationships and deferred financing costs, because these assets have finite lives.
Non-compete agreements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the associated contractual agreements; customer
relationship assets are amortized on an accelerated basis based on the expected cash flows generated by the existing customers;
and deferred financing costs are amortized over the lives of the associated financings. Trademarks are not amortized because they
have indefinite lives. The Company evaluates its trademarks for impairment on an annual basis based on the fair value of the underlying
assets.
 
As disclosed in Note 1, in 2012 the Company
adopted Accounting Standards No. 2012-02, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible
Assets for Impairment, which permits an entity the option first to assess qualitative
factors to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances indicates that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived
intangible asset is impaired.
 
Based on management’s 2012 year-end
review, the Company concluded that there were no indicators of impairment and therefore it was more likely than not that the fair
value of the other intangible assets exceeded the net carrying amount and there was no reason to perform the two-step impairment
test as of September 30, 2012. For the evaluation of trademarks, the main factor reviewed was the revenue base, which was relied
upon in applying the royalty savings method at inception, to be derived from covered product sales made under the trademarks. The
Company also reviewed the latest projected revenues. In addition, there have been no specific events or circumstances that management
believes have negatively affected the value of the trademarks. 
 
Goodwill
 
The Company tests goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter
of each fiscal year or at any other time when impairment indicators exist. Examples of such indicators include a significant change
in the business climate, unexpected competition, loss of key personnel or a decline in the Company’s market capitalization
below the Company’s net book value.
 
As discussed in Note 1, the Company adopted guidance effective
for 2011that permits companies to perform a qualitative assessment based on economic, industry and company-specific factors as
the initial step in the annual goodwill impairment test for all or selected reporting units. Based on the results of the qualitative
assessment, companies are only required to perform Step 1 of the annual impairment test for a reporting unit if the company concludes
that it is more likely than not that the unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount.
 
To the extent the Company concludes it
is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount, the two-step approach is applied.
The first step would require a comparison of each reporting unit’s fair value to the respective carrying value. If the carrying
value exceeds the fair value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any.
 
The Company assesses goodwill for impairment
at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a
component (i.e. a business for which discrete financial information is available and regularly reviewed by component managers).
The Company currently has five components which it evaluates for aggregation.
 

-46-
 

 
The Company evaluates the distribution methods, sales mix, and
operating results of each of its components to determine if these characteristics have or will be sustained over a long-term basis.
For purposes of this evaluation, the Company would expect its components to exhibit similar economic characteristics 3-5 years
after events such as an acquisition within the Company’s core roofing business or management/business restructuring. This
evaluation also considers major storm activity or local economic challenges that may impact the short term operations of an individual
component. Components that exhibit similar economic characteristic are subsequently aggregated into a single reporting unit. Based
on the Company’s evaluation at August 31, 2012, one of the five components did not exhibit similar economic characteristics
and therefore was individually evaluated for goodwill impairment as a separate reporting unit (the “Individual Reporting
Unit”). This was primarily due to the fact that this component had an above-average concentration of residential business
that provided gross margin and operating income rates well above the Company average. The remaining components were aggregated
into a second reporting unit (the “Aggregated Reporting Unit”). The Individual Reporting Unit represented approximately
11% of the 2012 consolidated operating income, while the Aggregated Reporting Unit comprised the remaining 89%.
 
The
Company concluded that the fair values for both the Aggregated and Individual Reporting Unit more likely than not exceeded their
respective carrying values at the goodwill measurement date. This position is consistent with the 2012 operating results in which
sales and operating income for the Aggregated Reporting Unit exceeded those in the prior year by 16% and 51%, respectively. In
addition, sales and operating income for the Individual Reporting Unit exceeded those in the prior year by 4% and 2%, respectively.
The Company further expects both the Aggregated and Individual Reporting units to experience moderate growth in the near future.
The Company’s analysis further noted the total market capitalization exceeded the Company’s carrying value by approximate
105% at August 31, 2012. This compares to 62% for that same measure at August 31, 2011. In addition, the Company did not identify
any macroeconomic or industry conditions or cost related factors that would indicate the fair values of the two reporting units
were more likely than not to be less than their respective carrying values. 
 
Lastly, there have been no events or circumstances since the
date of the above assessments that would change the Company’s conclusion. If circumstances change or events occur to indicate
it is more likely than not that the fair values of any of its reporting units (under the guidelines discussed above) have fallen
below their carrying values, the Company would test such reporting units for impairment.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
The Company accounts for employee and non-employee director
stock-based compensation using the fair value method of accounting. Compensation cost arising from stock options and restricted
stock awards granted to employees and non-employee directors is recognized using the straight-line method over the vesting period,
which represents the requisite service or performance period. In calculating the expense related to stock-based compensation, the
Company estimates option forfeitures and projects the number of restricted shares and units
that are expected to vest based on the related performance measures.
 
The Company recorded stock-based compensation expense of $7.9 million
($4.8 million net of tax) or $0.10 per basic share and per diluted share in 2012, $6.1 million ($3.7 million net
of tax) or $0.08 per basic share and per diluted share in 2011, and $5.0 million ($3.0 million net of tax) or $0.07 per
basic share and per diluted share in 2010. At September 30, 2012, the Company had $19.0 million of excess tax benefits
available for potential deferred tax write-offs related to previously recognized stock-based compensation.
 
Comprehensive Gain (Loss)
 
Accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) consisted of the
following:
 


  
September 30,  
September 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Foreign currency translation adjustment 
$9,535  
$4,251 

Tax effect 
 (3,249) 
 (3,249)

Foreign currency translation adjustment, net 
 6,286  
 1,002 

  
    
   

Unrealized loss on financial derivatives 
 (6,004) 
 (7,235)

Tax effect 
 2,344  
 2,827 

Unrealized loss on financial derivatives, net 
 (3,660) 
 (4,408)

  
    
   

Accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) 
$2,626  
$(3,405)

 
See also Note 12 for discussion of the Company’s CFC election
and the impact on the comprehensive loss in 2011.
 
Net Income per Share
 
Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing net
income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted net income per common share is computed by dividing
net income by the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive common share equivalents then outstanding using the treasury
stock method. Common equivalent shares consist of the incremental common shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options.
 

-47-
 

 
The following table reflects the calculation of weighted average
shares outstanding for each period presented:
 


  
Year Ended September 30, 

  
   
   
  

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
  

Weighted-average common shares outstanding for basic 
 46,718,948  
 45,919,198  
 45,480,922 

Dilutive effect of stock options 
 1,122,019  
 833,954  
 550,671 

  
    
    
   

Weighted-average shares assuming dilution 
 47,840,967  
 46,753,152  
 46,031,593 

 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
Financial instruments consist mainly of cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, accounts payable, borrowings under the Company's revolving lines of credit and long-term debt. Except for
the long-term debt, these instruments are short-term in nature, and there is currently no known trading market for the Company’s
debt. Therefore, at September 30, 2012 and 2011, the Company believes the carrying amounts of its financial instruments approximated
their fair values. Please refer to Note 17 for disclosures of the Company’s financial derivatives that are recorded at fair
value. The Company recorded the estimated fair value of contingent consideration as reported in Note 4 based on expected likelihood
of such payments under various scenarios. Subsequent changes in fair value were recorded in the Company’s consolidated statements
of operations.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company accounts for income taxes using the liability method,
which requires it to recognize a current tax liability or asset for current taxes payable or refundable and a deferred tax liability
or asset for the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax reporting bases
of assets and liabilities to the extent that they are realizable. Deferred tax expense (benefit) results from the net change in
deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year. See Note 12 for a discussion of the 2011 impact from a change in the tax status
of the Company’s Canadian operations.
 
FASB ASC Topic 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Based
on this guidance, the Company analyzes its filing positions in all of the federal and state jurisdictions where it is required
to file income tax returns, as well as all open tax years in these jurisdictions. Tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are
recognized if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable based solely on its technical merits.
 
Foreign Currency Translation
 
The assets and liabilities of the Company's foreign regions,
Beacon Roofing Supply Canada Company ("BRSCC") and Enercon Products (“Enercon”), are translated into U.S.
dollars at current exchange rates as of the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange
rates. Net unrealized translation gains or losses associated with the Canadian net assets are recorded directly to a separate component
of stockholders' equity, net of the related deferred taxes prior to 2011 (see Note 12). Realized gains and losses from foreign
currency transactions were not material for any of the periods presented. The Company has inter-company receivables from both BRSCC
and Enercon, for which the short-term portion is marked to market each period with a corresponding entry recorded as a component
of the consolidated statement of operations. Since repayment of the long-term portion is not planned or anticipated in the foreseeable
future, the long-term balances are marked to market each period with a corresponding entry recorded as a separate component of
stockholders' equity.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In October 2012, the FASB issued Accounting Standards No. 2012-04—Technical
Corrections and Improvements, which includes certain corrections to the Accounting
Standards Codification and amendments that identify when the use of fair value should be linked to the definition of fair
value in Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement. This Update contains conforming amendments to the Codification to reflect the
measurement and disclosure requirements of Topic 820. The amendments in this Update that will not have transition guidance are
effective upon issuance. The amendments that are subject to the transition guidance will be effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2012. This new guidance may only affect the way in which the Company references and reports accounting and reporting
standards.
 

-48-
 

 
In December 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards No. 2011-11,
Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities, which requires an entity to disclose
certain information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of its financial statements to understand the effect
of those arrangements on its financial position. An entity is required to apply the amendments in this Update for annual reporting
periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. An entity should provide the disclosures
required by those amendments retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. The Company does not expect the adoption of
this Update to have an impact on the financial statements.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Comprehensive
Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which provides an entity with the option to present the total of
comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous
statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In a single continuous statement, the entity is
required to present the components of net income and total net income, the components of other comprehensive income and a total
for other comprehensive income, along with the total of comprehensive income in that statement. In the two-statement approach,
an entity is required to present components of net income and total net income in the statement of net income. The statement of
other comprehensive income should immediately follow the statement of net income and include the components of other comprehensive
income and a total for other comprehensive income, along with a total for comprehensive income. These changes apply to both annual
and interim financial statements. The amendments in ASU 2011-05 should be applied retrospectively. The amendments are effective
for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, however Accounting Standards No. 2011-12,
issued by the FASB in December 2011, has deferred the effective date of the portions of this Update that relate to the presentation
of reclassification adjustments. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not currently expect the adoption of ASU 2011-05
to have a significant impact on its financial position and results of operations.
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement
(Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs, which
changes the wording used to describe the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about
fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, and should
be applied prospectively. Early adoption is not permitted. The Company does not currently expect the adoption of this standard
to have a significant impact on the financial statements.
 


3.
Goodwill, Intangibles and Other Assets

 
Goodwill was $443,161and $380,916 at September 30, 2012 and
2011, respectively, of which $300,772 and $235,582 can be amortized for income tax purposes, respectively. The Company's goodwill
increased by $62,242 in 2012, due to goodwill associated with acquisitions of $59,943 and a gain from foreign currency translation
of $2,299, after increases of $17,752 due to acquisitions and a decline of $1,897 from foreign currency translation in 2011.
 
Intangibles and other assets, included in other long-term assets,
consisted of the following:
 


  
September 30,  
September 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Amortizable intangible assets 
    
   

Non-compete agreements 
$8,062  
$6,847 

Customer relationships 
 138,473  
 98,538 

Beneficial lease arrangements 
 610  
 610 

Deferred financing costs 
 5,886  
 7,510 

  
    
   

  
 153,031  
 113,505 

Less: accumulated amortization 
 81,008  
 76,105 

  
    
   

  
 72,023  
 37,400 

Unamortizable trademarks 
 9,750  
 9,750 

Other assets 
 3,897  
 2,606 

Total other assets, net 
$85,670  
$49,756 

 
Amortization expense related to intangible assets amounted to
approximately $9,829, $9,442, and $10,696 in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The intangible lives range from one to fifteen
years and the weighted average remaining life was 12.2 years at September 30, 2012. Estimated future annual amortization for the
above intangible assets as of September 30, 2012 is as follows:

-49-
 

 


  
Future 

  
Amortization 

Year ending September 
  

2013 
$12,074 

2014 
 11,971 

2015 
 10,292 

2016 
 8,514 

2017 
 6,601 

Thereafter 
 22,571 

Total future amortization 
$72,023 

 


4.
Acquisitions

 
In 2012, the Company acquired twenty-two branches from the five
following acquisitions at a total cost of $141.1 million, with resulting goodwill of $59.9 million:
 

·In August 2012, the Company purchased certain assets of Contractors
Roofing & Supply Co. ("CRS"), a distributor of residential roofing products and related accessories. CRS has
one location in the St. Louis suburb of O'Fallon, MO and recent annual sales of approximately $14 million. 
 

·In July 2012, the Company purchased certain assets of Structural Materials
Co. ("Structural"), a distributor of residential and commercial roofing products and related accessories headquartered
in Santa Ana, CA. Structural has six locations in Los Angeles and Orange Counties and in the surrounding areas, with recent annual
sales of approximately $81 million in 2011. Shortly after the Structural acquisition, the Company terminated two members of Structural’s
management, with whom the Company had entered into employment agreements, and established a liability for the resulting termination
benefits and related payroll taxes that are being paid over five years. The associated charge of approximately $2 million was recorded
in the fourth quarter of 2012 and included in operating expenses.
 

·In June 2012, the Company purchased certain assets of Cassady Pierce
Company (“Cassady Pierce”), a distributor of residential and commercial roofing products and related accessories headquartered
in Pittsburgh, Pa. Cassady Pierce has six locations in the Pittsburgh area and recent annual sales of approximately $52 million.

 

·In November 2011, the Company purchased all of the stock of Fowler
& Peth, Inc. (“F&P”), a distributor of residential and commercial roofing products and related accessories.
F&P has five branches in Colorado, two in Wyoming and one in Nebraska, with recent annual sales of approximately $60 million.
The Company and the selling stockholders mutually agreed to file a Section 338 election with the Internal Revenue Service to treat
the transaction for tax purposes as an asset purchase.
 

·In October 2011, the Company purchased all of the stock of CCP Atlantic
Specialty Products, Inc. d/b/a The
Roofing Connection, a distributor of mostly residential roofing products and related accessories with one location in Dartmouth,
Nova Scotia, a suburb of Halifax.
 
In connection with the above acquisitions, the Company incurred
legal fees of approximately $1 million that were included in operating expenses in 2012. The total aggregate impact of the above
acquisitions on the 2012 operating results was not considered material for the reporting of pro forma financial information.
 
In May 2011, the Company purchased all of the stock of Enercon
Products ("Enercon") for $39.8 million, including an earn-out amount of $4.9 million discussed herein. The purchase allocation
resulted in goodwill of $17.1 million. Enercon is a roofing distributor with six locations in Western Canada. Headquartered within
its branch in Edmonton, Enercon also has branches in Calgary, Regina and Saskatoon and two branches in Vancouver and generated
annual sales of approximately $45 million in 2010. The purchase price included an additional payout of up to approximately $5.5
million if certain earn-out targets (based on defined EBITDA) were met for the twelve-month period ended in May 2012. An earn-out
payout of $4.9 million, $0.3 million in excess of the September 30, 2011 liability, was made in July 2012. The additional expense
was included in operating expenses.
 

-50-
 

 
A total of $7.5 million of the acquisition prices for the
above acquisitions remained in escrow at September 30, 2012, primarily for purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification
claims, with $4.9 million included in other current assets and accrued expenses and $2.6 million included in other long-term assets
and liabilities.
 


5.
Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets

 
The significant components of prepaid expenses and other current
assets were as follows:
 


  
September 30,  
September 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Vendor rebates 
$37,398  
$31,811 

Refundable income taxes 
 12,314  
 - 

Other 
 10,575  
 5,762 

  
    
   

  
$60,287  
$37,573 

 


6.
Property and Equipment, net

 
Property and equipment, net, consisted of
the following:
 


  
September 30,  
September 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Land 
$3,317  
$3,051 

Buildings and leasehold improvements 
 24,066  
 20,948 

Equipment 
 132,715  
 117,566 

Furniture and fixtures 
 12,370  
 11,567 

  
    
   

  
 172,468  
 153,132 

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization 
 115,092  
 105,705 

  
    
   

  
$57,376  
$47,427 

 
Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment totaled
$14,524, $15,618 and $17,077 in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 


7.
Accrued Expenses

 
The significant components of accrued expenses
were as follows:
 


  
September 30,  
September 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Uninvoiced inventory receipts 
$9,307  
$12,635 

Employee-related accruals 
 26,752  
 21,082 

Income taxes payable 
 -  
 2,624 

Unrealized loss on financial derivatives 
 8,626  
 7,235 

Other 
 26,942  
 26,330 

  
    
   

  
$71,627  
$69,906 

 


8.
Financing Arrangements

 
 
Senior Secured Credit Facility
 
On April 5, 2012, the Company replaced the Prior Credit Facility
(see below) with a new five-year senior secured credit facility that includes a $550 million U.S. credit facility and a C$15 million
($14.7 million) Canadian credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, and a syndicate of other lenders (combined,
the “Credit Facility”). The Company paid off the outstanding debt of $304.0 million under the Prior Credit Facility
with the proceeds from the Credit Facility and from approximately $79 million of cash on hand. In the third quarter of 2012, the
Company recorded a charge of approximately $1.2 million ($0.7 million net of tax), included in interest expense and other financing
costs, associated with this transaction. In addition, this transaction impacted the effectiveness of the Company’s interest
rate swaps existing as of the refinancing date as discussed in Note 17.
 

-51-
 

 
The $550 million U.S credit facility consists of a revolving
credit facility of $325 million (the “U.S. Revolver”), which includes a sub-facility of $20 million for letters of
credit, and a $225 million term loan (the “Term Loan”). The Term Loan has required amortization of 5% per year that
is payable in quarterly installments, with the balance due in full on March 31, 2017. We may increase the Credit Facility by up
to $200 million under certain conditions. There was $41.3 and $219.4 million outstanding under the U.S. Revolver and Term Loan,
respectively, at September 30, 2012. There were $5.5 million of outstanding standby letters of credit at September 30, 2012.
 
Interest
 
Borrowings under the Credit Facility carry interest at a margin
above the LIBOR Rate. The current margin is 1.75% per annum and can range from 1.50% to 2.50% per annum depending upon our Consolidated
Total Leverage Ratio, as defined in the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility also provides for a US base rate, defined in the agreement
as the higher of the Prime Rate, or the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%, plus a margin above that rate. In addition, borrowings are
permitted under the Canadian credit facility under a base rate, defined in the agreement as the higher of the Canadian Prime Rate,
or the annual rate of interest equal to the sum of the CDOR rate plus 1.0%, plus a margin above that rate. The current margin for
both base rates is 0.75% per annum and can range from .50% to 1.50% per annum depending upon our Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio,
as defined in the Credit Facility. Current unused commitment fees on the revolving credit facilities are 0.375% per annum. The
unused commitment fees can range from 0.35% to 0.50% per annum, again depending upon our Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio.
 
The outstanding borrowings under the U.S. Revolver at September
30, 2012 carried an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.75% (2.0% at September 30, 2012) for $35.0 million and the remainder at the base
rate (4.0%). There were no outstanding borrowings under the Canadian revolver. The Term Loan balance carried an interest rate of
LIBOR plus 1.75% (2.0% at September 30, 2012).
 
Financial covenants under the Credit Facility are as follows:
 
Maximum Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio
 
On the last day of each fiscal quarter, the Company’s
Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio (the ratio of our outstanding debt to our trailing twelve-month earnings before interest, income
taxes, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation), as more fully defined in the Credit Facility, must not be greater
than 3.50:1.0 or 4.00:1.0 under a one-time request subsequent to an acquisition. At September 30, 2012, this ratio was 1.55:1.
 
Minimum Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
 
On the last day of each fiscal quarter, the Company’s
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio (the ratio of our trailing twelve-month earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation,
amortization and stock-based compensation to our cash interest expense for the same period), as more fully defined in the Credit
Facility, must not be less than 3.00:1.0. At September 30, 2012, this ratio was 15.74:1. 
As of September 30, 2012, the Company was in compliance with
these covenants. Substantially all of the Company’s assets, including the capital stock and assets of wholly-owned subsidiaries,
secure obligations under the Credit Facility.
  
Senior Notes Payable
 
Senior notes payable under the Term Loan consisted of the following:

-52-
 

 



  
September 30,  
September 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Senior notes payable to commercial lenders,   due in equal quarterly payments of principal of $0.8 million with   the remainder due in 2013, plus required prepayment amounts   and interest at the base rate, as defined, plus 0.75%   or LIBOR plus 2.0% (approximately 2.24% at September   30, 2011) through September 2013 
$-  
$311,826 

  
    
   

Senior notes payable to commercial lenders,   due in equal quarterly payments of principal of $2.8 million with   the remainder due in 2017, plus interest at the higher of the prime   rate or the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%, plus a margin rate (4.00% at   September 30, 2012) or LIBOR plus 1.75% (1.97% at September 30, 2012) 
 219,375  
   

  
    
   

Less current portion 
 11,250  
 10,282 

  
    
   

  
$208,125  
$301,544 



 
Prior Credit Facility
 
On November 2, 2006, the Company entered
into an amended and restated seven-year $500 million U.S. senior secured credit facility and a C$15 million senior secured
Canadian credit facility with GE Antares Capital ("GE Antares") and a syndicate of other lenders (combined, the "Prior
Credit Facility"). The Prior Credit Facility provided for a cash receipts lock-box arrangement that gave the Company sole
control over the funds in lock-box accounts, unless excess availability was less than $10 million or an event of default occurred,
in which case the senior secured lenders would have had the right to take control over such funds and to apply such funds to repayment
of the senior debt.
 
The Prior Credit Facility consisted of a U.S. revolving credit
facility providing up to $150 million, which included a sub-facility of $20 million for letters of credit, and a term
loan with an initial principal amount of $350 million term loan (the "Prior Term Loan”). The Prior Credit Facility
also included a C$15 million senior secured revolving credit facility provided by GE Canada Finance Holding Company. The Prior
Term Loan required amortization of 1% per year, payable in quarterly installments of approximately $0.8 million, and the remainder
was scheduled to be due in 2013. The Prior Credit Facility could have also been expanded by up to an additional $200 million
under certain conditions. There were $4.6 million of outstanding standby letters of credit at both September 30, 2011 and September 30,
2010.
 
There were mandatory prepayments under the Prior Credit Facility
under certain conditions, including the following cash flow condition:
 
Excess Cash Flow
 
By May 15 of each fiscal year, the Company was required
to pay an amount equal to 50% of the Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Prior Credit Facility) for the prior fiscal year, not
to exceed $7.0 million with respect to any fiscal year. Based on results for fiscal year 2011, a required payment of $7.0
million was due by May 2012 and was paid in January 2012. A payment of $7.0 million was also made in January 2011 for fiscal year
2010. The amount payable under this provision as of September 30, 2011 was classified as short-term debt.
 
Equipment Financing Facilities
 
As of September 30, 2012, there was a total of $11.2 million
outstanding under prior equipment financing facilities, with fixed interest rates ranging from 3.3% to 7.1% and payments due through
September 2017.
 
Subsequent to September 30, 2012, the Company entered into a
new two-year equipment financing facility that provides financing for up to $30 million of purchased transportation and material
handling equipment through October 1, 2014. The applicable interest rate at the time of the advances will be approximately 1.26%
above the 3-year term swap rate for 5-year loans and 1.21% above the 4-year term swap rate for 7-year loans.
 

-53-
 

 


 
Other Information
 
Annual principal payments for all outstanding
borrowings for each of the next five years and thereafter as of September 30, 2012 were as follows:
 


  
   
   
Revolving  
  

  
Senior Secured  
Equipment  
Lines of  
  

Fiscal year 
Credit Facility  
Financing  
Credit  
Total 

  
   
   
   
  

2013 
$11,250  
$4,382  
$41,300  
$56,932 

2014 
 11,250  
 3,386  
 -  
 14,636 

2015 
 11,250  
 1,542  
 -  
 12,792 

2016 
 11,250  
 1,062  
 -  
 12,312 

2017 
 174,375  
 860  
 -  
 175,235 

Thereafter 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Subtotal 
 219,375  
 11,232  
 41,300  
 271,907 

Less current portion 
 11,250  
 4,382  
 41,300  
 56,932 

Total long-term debt 
$208,125  
$6,850  
$-  
$214,975 

 


9.
Leases

 
The Company mostly operates in leased facilities, which are
accounted for as operating leases. The leases typically provide for a base rent plus real estate taxes. Certain of the leases provide
for escalating rents over the lives of the leases and rent expense is recognized over the terms of those leases on a straight-line
basis. The Company leases two buildings from a limited liability entity that is partly owned by one of the Company’s former
directors (Note 13) who retired during 2012.
  
At September 30, 2012, the minimal rental commitments under
all non-cancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of more than one year were as follows:
 


  
Operating 

  
Leases 

Year ending September 
  

2013 
 28,549 

2014 
 26,178 

2015 
 20,542 

2016 
 13,787 

2017 
 6,845 

Thereafter 
 3,717 

Total minimum lease payments 
$99,618 

 
Rent expense was $28,860 in 2012, $26,049
in 2011 and $25,227 in 2010. Sublet income was immaterial for these years.
 


10.
Stock Options and Restricted Stock Awards

 
The Company is currently making stock-based awards under its
2004 Stock Plan, which was adopted on September 21, 2004 and most recently amended and restated on February 8, 2011 (the “Plan”).
The Plan allows for the granting of up to 7,800,000 shares of Common Stock in the form of stock options or stock awards to key
employees and members of the Board of Directors. The key terms of the grants are determined by the Company's Board of Directors.
As of September 30, 2012, there were 2,134,515 shares of common stock available for awards under the Plan.
 
The 1998 Stock Plan allowed for the granting of options to purchase
up to 3,100,000 shares of Common Stock. These options were generally allowed to be exercised beginning 18 months after the
date of grant and terminate ten years from the grant date. No further awards will be made under the 1998 Stock Plan.
 
Stock Options
 
As of September 30, 2012, there was $6.3 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to unvested stock options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0
years. Except under certain conditions, the options are subject to continued employment and vest in one-third increments over a
three-year period following the grant dates.
 
The fair values of the options were estimated
on the dates of grants using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 

-54-
 

 


  
Year Ended September 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
    
    
   

Dividend yield 
 -  
 -  
 - 

Expected life in years 
 6.5  
 7.0  
 7.0 

Risk-free interest rate 
 0.94% 
 1.51% 
 2.45%

Expected volatility 
 47.00% 
 48.00% 
 48.00%

Weighted average fair value of options granted 
$8.78  
$7.82  
$7.60 

 
 
Expected lives of the options granted are based primarily on
historical activity, while expected volatilities are based on historical volatilities of the Company’s stock and consideration
of comparable public companies’ stock. Estimated forfeiture rates vary by grant and range up to 8.0% as of September 30,
2012.
 
In the event of a change in control of the Company, all outstanding
options are immediately vested.
 
Information regarding the Company's stock options is summarized
below (not in thousands):
 


  
   
   
Weighted-  
  

  
   
Weighted-  
Average  
  

  
   
Average  
Remaining  
Aggregate 

  
Number of  
Exercise  
Contractual  
Intrinsic 

  
Shares  
Price  
Life  
Value 

  
   
   
   
(in Millions) 

Outstanding at September 30, 2009 
 3,417,754  
$13.70  
    
   

Granted 
 862,114  
 14.64  
    
   

Exercised 
 (419,021) 
 8.50  
    
   

Canceled 
 (87,115) 
 17.47  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Outstanding at September 30, 2010 
 3,773,732  
 14.41  
    
   

Granted 
 701,249  
 15.57  
    
   

Exercised 
 (490,249) 
 10.81  
    
   

Canceled 
 (89,149) 
 14.91  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Outstanding at September 30, 2011 
 3,895,583  
15.06  
    
   

Granted 
 789,332  
 18.78  
    
   

Exercised 
 (1,508,544) 
 14.24  
    
   

Canceled 
 (109,291) 
 16.65  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Outstanding at September 30, 2012 
 3,067,080  
$16.36  
 6.7  
$37.2 

  
    
    
    
   

Vested or Expected to Vest at September 30, 2012 
 2,965,126  
$16.34  
 6.6  
$36.0 

  
    
    
    
   

Exercisable at September 30, 2012 
 1,639,927  
$15.73  
 5.1  
$20.9 

 
The aggregate intrinsic values above include only in-the-money
options. The intrinsic values of stock options exercised during 2012 and 2011 were $17.1 million and $4.5 million, respectively.
 
Details regarding options to purchase common
stock outstanding as of September 30, 2012 were as follows:
 

-55-
 

 


   
   
Weighted-  
  

   
   
Average  
  

   
Range of  
Remaining  
  

Options  
Exercise  
Contractual  
Options 

Outstanding  
Prices  
Life in Years  
Exercisable 

   
   
   
  

 16,105  
 $1.87 - $2.33  
 1.1  
 16,105 

 45,000  
 8.04  
 5.1  
 45,000 

 127,169  
 $8.15 - $10.87  
 5.1  
 127,169 

 436,407  
 $10.87 - $13.59  
 5.1  
 436,407 

 1,076,416  
 $13.59 - $16.30  
 7.5  
 419,038 

 954,438  
 $16.30 - $19.02  
 8.1  
 196,329 

 7,500  
 $19.02 - $21.74  
 8.1  
 3,334 

 373,295  
 $21.74 - $24.45  
 3.9  
 373,295 

 30,750  
 $24.45 - $27.17  
 5.0  
 23,250 

    
    
    
   

 3,067,080  
    
    
 1,639,927 

 
Special CEO Options Grant
 
The Company granted stock options to its former President and
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in October 2003 under an executive securities agreement. The grant, as amended, included options
to purchase 612,366 shares of common stock at the then fair value and was scheduled to vest over two years. These options were
not granted under the Company's 1998 Stock Plan or 2004 Stock Plan. Options to purchase 42,366 shares under this grant were exercised
in 2010 and 570,000 shares prior to 2010, leaving none outstanding under the special CEO grant at September 30, 2012 or 2011.
 
Restricted Stock Awards
 
As of September 30, 2012, there was $2.7
million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock awards. That cost is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years.
 
The total fair values of the restricted
stock awards were determined based upon the number of shares or units and the closing prices of the Company’s common stock
on the dates of the grants. The restricted stock awards granted to management are subject to continued employment, except under
certain conditions, and will vest if the Company attains a targeted rate of return on invested capital at the end of a three-year
period. The actual number of shares or units that will vest can range from 0% to 125% of the management grants depending upon actual
Company performance below or above the target level and the Company estimates that performance in determining the projected number
of shares or units that will vest and the related compensation cost. The restricted stock awards granted to non-employee directors
are also subject to continued service, vest at the end of one year (except under certain conditions) and the underlying common
shares will not be distributed until six months after the director separates from the Company.
 
Information regarding the Company's restricted shares and units
is summarized below (not in thousands):
 


  
   
   
Weighted-  
  

  
   
Weighted-  
Average  
  

  
   
Average  
Remaining  
Aggregate 

  
Number of  
Grant  
Contractual  
Intrinsic 

  
Shares  
Price  
Life  
Value 

  
   
   
(in Years)  
(in Millions) 

Outstanding at September 30, 2010 
 -  
    
    
   

Granted 
 135,009  
$16.70  
    
   

Vested 
 -  
    
    
   

Canceled 
 -  
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Outstanding at September 30, 2011 
 135,009  
 16.70  
    
   

Granted 
 148,100  
 20.26  
    
   

Vested 
 (4,496) 
 20.02  
    
   

Canceled 
 -  
 -  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Outstanding at September 30, 2012 
 278,613  
$18.54  
 2.9  
$7.9 

  
    
    
    
   

Vested or Expected to Vest at September 30, 2012 
 278,613  
$18.54  
 2.9  
$7.9 

 

-56-
 

 
The Company granted 654,232 additional
options and 109,017 restricted stock units under the Plan to management in November 2012.
 


11.
Benefit Plans

 
The Company maintains defined contribution plans covering all
full-time employees of the Company who have 90 days of service and are at least 21 years old. An eligible employee may
elect to make a before-tax contribution of between 1% and 100% of his or her compensation through payroll deductions, not to exceed
the annual limit set by law. The Company currently matches the first 50% of participant contributions limited to 6% of a participant's
gross compensation (maximum Company match is 3%). Additional amounts associated with profit sharing were contributed in the three
years presented and are scheduled to be contributed in fiscal year 2013 for 2012 as well. All Company contributions are subject
to the discretion of management and the board of directors. The combined total expense for this plan and a similar plan for Canadian
employees was $7,094, $6,165 and $4,172 in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
The Company also contributes to an external pension fund for
certain of its employees who belong to a local union. Annual contributions were $125, $146 and $91 in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.
 


12.
Income Taxes

 
The income tax provision consisted of the
following:
 


  
Fiscal year 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
  

Current: 
    
    
   

Federal 
$34,070  
$24,919  
$13,369 

Foreign 
 860  
 1,523  
 1,615 

State 
 8,304  
 5,181  
 2,737 

  
    
    
   

  
 43,234  
 31,623  
 17,721 

Deferred: 
    
    
   

Federal 
 6,166  
 (296) 
 2,153 

Foreign 
 471  
 -  
 (17)

State 
 1,063  
 (169) 
 925 

  
    
    
   

  
 7,700  
 (465) 
 3,060 

  
    
    
   

  
$50,934  
$31,158  
$20,781 

 
The following table shows the principal
reasons for the differences between the effective income tax rate and the statutory federal income tax rate:
 


  
Fiscal Year 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
  

Federal income taxes at statutory rate 
 35.00% 
 35.00% 
 35.00%

State income taxes, net of federal benefit 
 4.84  
 4.42  
 3.42 

Foreign income taxes 
 (0.09) 
 (0.33) 
 (0.17)

Change in tax status of foreign entity 
 -  
 (6.11) 
 - 

Non-deductible meals and entertainment 
 0.27  
 0.27  
 0.41 

Tax reserves 
 -  
 (0.28) 
 (1.41)

Other 
 0.24  
 1.50  
 0.34 

  
    
    
   

Total 
 40.26% 
 34.47% 
 37.57%



 

-57-
 

 
The components of the Company's deferred
taxes were as follows:
 


  
September 30,  
September 30, 

  
2012  
2011 

  
    
   

Deferred tax liabilities: 
    
   

Excess tax over book depreciation and amortization 
$55,413  
$48,288 

Other 
 600  
 553 

  
    
   

  
 56,013  
 48,841 

Deferred tax assets: 
    
   

Deferred compensation 
 8,365  
 9,848 

Allowance for doubtful accounts 
 5,337  
 5,306 

Accrued vacation & other 
 3,439  
 2,223 

Unrealized loss on financial derivatives 
 3,373  
 2,827 

Inventory valuation 
 3,390  
 5,113 

  
    
   

  
 23,904  
 25,318 

  
    
   

Net deferred income tax liabilities 
$32,109  
$23,523 

 
In 2011, the Company’s request to have its Canadian subsidiary
(Beacon Roofing Supply Canada Company or “BRSCC”) treated as a Controlled Foreign Corporation (“CFC”),
retroactive to October 1, 2009, was approved by the IRS. BRSCC was previously treated as a “pass-through” or disregarded
entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Subsequent to October 1, 2009, BRSCC’s taxable income, which reflects all of
the Company’s Canadian operations, is being taxed only in Canada and would generally be taxed in the U.S. only upon an actual
or deemed distribution. The Company expects that BRSCC’s earnings, which includes the earnings of Enercon Products for tax
purposes, will be indefinitely reinvested for the foreseeable future and therefore no U.S. deferred tax asset or liability for
the differences between the book basis and the tax basis of BRSCC has been recorded at September 30, 2012.  In connection
with this change in the indefinite reinvestment assertion, the Company recorded a reversal of a deferred tax liability of $3.2
million in 2011 previously reported as a component of other comprehensive income. The reversal was recorded in that year’s
earnings as backwards tracing of such amounts to other comprehensive income is prohibited. Unremitted earnings of $31.0 million
were considered permanently reinvested at September 30, 2012. These earnings were previously taxed in the U.S. and remittance would
not generate additional US tax.
 
ASC 740 provides that the effect of an election for a voluntary
change in tax status is recognized for accounting purposes on the approval date. Therefore all of the associated adjustments to
the Company’s income tax accounts for the above approved election were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011, including
the adjustments resulting from a lower Canadian tax rate compared to the U.S. tax rate in 2011 and 2010. Deferred assets and
liabilities that were recorded over the time BRSCC was treated as a pass-through entity were derecognized and the resulting impact
was included in income from continuing operations, including items previously reported in other financial statement components
(such as in other comprehensive income as noted above).
 
As of September 30, 2012, there were available tax benefits
totaling $288 related to foreign tax credit carryforwards, most of which expire in fiscal year 2019. The Company has recorded a
valuation allowance to fully reserve for this amount since it is more likely than not that this deferred tax asset will not be
realized due to the change discussed above. As of September 30, 2011, there were available tax benefits totaling $466 related to
foreign tax credit carryforwards and there was a valuation allowance to fully reserve for that amount.
 
As of September 30, 2012, there were no uncertain tax positions
which, if recognized, would affect the Company’s effective tax rate. The Company’s continuing practice is to recognize
any interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense in the consolidated statements of operations. There
were no accrued interest and penalty amounts resulting from unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2012. A reconciliation of
the beginning and ending amounts of the gross unrecognized income tax benefits is as follows:
 


  
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Balance, beginning of year 
$57  
$432 

Current year uncertain tax positions 
 -  
 - 

Expiration of statutes of limitations 
 (57) 
 (375)

  
    
   

Balance, end of year 
$-  
$57 

 
In 2012, 2011, and 2010, the Company had reductions in income
taxes payable of $6,698, $1,782 and $1,559, respectively, as a result of stock option exercises.
  

-58-
 




 
The Company has operations in 38 U.S. states and six provinces
in Canada and is subject to tax audits in each of these jurisdictions and federally in both the United States and Canada. These
audits may involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. The Company has provided for its estimate
of taxes payable in the accompanying financial statements. Additional taxes are reasonably possible, however the amounts cannot
be estimated at this time. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal tax examinations for fiscal years prior to 2009. For
the majority of states, the Company is also no longer subject to tax examinations for fiscal years before 2009. In Canada, the
Company is no longer subject to tax examinations for fiscal years prior to 2007. For the Canadian provinces, the Company is no
longer subject to tax examinations for fiscal years before 2009.
 


13.
Related-Party Transactions

 
The Company leases two buildings from a limited liability entity
that is partly owned by one of the Company’s former directors for an aggregate expense of approximately $0.4 million
in 2012, 2011 and 2010. This director retired during 2012. The former director’s interest in the dollar value of these lease
arrangements was approximately 32% at September 30, 2011, prior to his retirement.
 


14.
Contingencies

 
The Company is subject to loss contingencies pursuant to various
federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations; however, the Company is not aware of any reasonably possible losses
that would have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. Potential loss contingencies
include possible obligations to remove or mitigate the effects on the environment of the placement, storage, disposal or release
of certain chemical or other substances by the Company or by other parties. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company has
been indemnified for any and all known environmental liabilities as of the respective dates of acquisition. Historically, environmental
liabilities have not had a material impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
 
The Company is subject to litigation from
time to time in the ordinary course of business; however the Company does not expect the results, if any, to have a material adverse
impact on its results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
 


15.
Geographic and Product Data

 
The Company's geographic and product information
was as follows:
 


  
Year Ended
    September 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
Property  
   
   
Property  
   
   
Property 

  
   
Income  
and  
   
Income  
and  
   
Income  
and 

  
Net  
before  
Equipment,  
Net  
before  
Equipment,  
Net  
before  
Equipment, 

  
Revenues  
taxes  
net  
Revenues  
taxes  
net  
Revenues  
taxes  
net 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

U.S. 
$1,873,584  
$122,836  
$49,782  
$1,676,072  
$85,171  
$40,667  
$1,501,748  
$50,338  
$41,900 

Canada 
 170,074  
 3,663  
 7,594  
 141,351  
 5,207  
 6,760  
 108,221  
 4,969  
 5,851 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$2,043,658  
$126,499  
$57,376  
$1,817,423  
$90,378  
$47,427  
$1,609,969  
$55,307  
$47,751 

 
Net revenues from external customers by product group were as
follows:
 


  
Year Ended 

  
September 30,  
September 30,  
September 30, 

  
2012  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
  

Residential roofing products 
$1,023,547  
$849,970  
$748,007 

Non-residential roofing products 
 757,906  
 718,145  
 619,348 

Complementary building products 
 262,205  
 249,308  
 242,614 

  
    
    
   

Total 
$2,043,658  
$1,817,423  
$1,609,969 

 
Prior year revenues by product group are presented in a manner
consistent with the current year’s product classifications.
 


16.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

 
The activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts consisted
of the following:
 

-59-
 

 


  
Balance at  
   
   
  

  
beginning  
Provision  
   
Balance at 

Fiscal Year 
of year  
Additions  
Write-offs  
end of year 

  
   
   
   
  

September 30, 2012 
$13,816  
$4,619  
$(4,971) 
$13,464 

September 30, 2011 
$11,817  
$7,960  
$(5,960) 
$13,816 

September 30, 2010 
$13,442  
$4,622  
$(6,247) 
$11,817 

 


17.
Financial Derivatives

 
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage
its exposure related to fluctuating cash flows from changes in interest rates. Use of derivative financial instruments in hedging
programs subjects the Company to certain risks, such as market and credit risks. Market risk represents the possibility that the
value of the derivative instrument will change. In a hedging relationship, the change in the value of the derivative is offset
to a great extent by the change in the value of the underlying hedged item. Credit risk related to derivatives represents the possibility
that the counterparty will not fulfill the terms of the contract. The notional, or contractual, amount of our derivative financial
instruments is used to measure interest to be paid or received and does not represent the Company’s exposure due to credit
risk. The Company’s current derivative instruments are with large financial counterparties rated highly by nationally recognized
credit rating agencies.
 
As of September 30, 2012, the outstanding
interest rate derivative instruments included: a) a $100 million interest rate swap with interest payments at a fixed
rate of 2.72%; b) a $50 million interest rate swap with interest payments at a fixed rate of 3.12%; and c) a $50 million
interest rate swap with interest payments at a fixed rate of 3.11%. These interest rate swaps expire in April 2013 and were designated
as effective cash flow hedges until the Company’s refinancing discussed below. In addition, in 2012 the Company entered into
a new interest rate derivative instrument consisting of a $213.8 million interest rate swap with interest payments at a fixed rate
of 1.38%, commencing on June 28, 2013. This new interest rate swap has been designated as an effective cash flow hedge and amortizes
at $2.8 million per quarter beginning on June 28, 2013 and expires on March 31, 2017.
 
For derivative instruments designated as
cash flow hedges, the Company records the effective portions of changes in their fair value, net of taxes, in other comprehensive
income. The effectiveness of the hedges is periodically assessed by the Company during the lives of the hedges by 1) comparing
the current terms of the hedges with the related hedged debt to assure they continue to coincide and 2) through an evaluation of
the ability of the counterparties to the hedges to honor their obligations under the hedges. Any ineffective portions of the hedges
are recognized in earnings through interest expense and other financing costs. The Company’s refinancing transaction in 2012
resulted in hedge ineffectiveness on the derivative instruments that expire in April 2013, as the underlying term debt being hedged
was repaid before the expiration of the derivative instruments. This resulted in a $4.9 million charge to interest expense and
other financing costs in the third quarter of 2012 for the fair value of the derivative instruments previously recorded as a component
of comprehensive loss. Subsequent changes in the fair value of those swaps are also being recognized in interest expense and other
financing costs. There was a decline of $2.3 million in the fair value of the ineffective swaps in the second half of 2012 that
was recognized as a reduction to interest expense and other financing costs.
 
The Company records any differences paid
or received on its interest rate hedges as adjustments to interest expense. The table below presents the combined fair values
of the interest rate derivative instruments:
 




  
  
Unrealized
    Losses 
  

  
Location on 
September
    30,  
September
    30,  
  

Instrument 
Balance Sheet 
2012  
2011  
Fair Value Hierarchy 

  
  
(Dollars in
    thousands)  
  

  
  
   
   
  

Designated interest rate swaps (effective) 
Accrued expenses 
$6,005  
$7,235  
   

Non-designated interest rate swaps (ineffective) 
Accrued expenses 
 2,621  
 -  
   

  
  
    
    
 Level 2 

  
  
$8,626  
$7,235  
   

 
The fair values of the interest rate hedges
were determined through the use of pricing models, which utilize verifiable inputs such as market interest rates that are observable
at commonly quoted intervals (generally referred to as the “LIBOR Curve”) for the full terms of the hedge agreements.
These values reflect a Level 2 measurement under the applicable fair value hierarchy.
 

-60-
 

 
The table below presents the amounts of
gain (loss) on the interest rate derivative instruments recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI):
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2012  
2011 

  
   
  

Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in OCI (net of tax) 
    
   

Designated interest rate swaps 
$(3,660) 
$(4,408)

Non-designated interest rate swaps (reclassified from accumulated OCI) 
 2,984  
 - 

  
The table below presents the amounts of gain (loss) on the interest
rate derivative instruments recognized in interest expense and other financing costs:
 


Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Interest Expense 
    
   

Non-designated interest rate swaps 
$2,311  
$- 

Non-designated interest rate swaps (reclassified from accumulated OCI) 
 (4,932) 
 - 

  
    
   

  
$(2,621) 
$- 

 


18.
Subsequent Events

 
On November 1, 2012, the Company announced that it had acquired
McClure-Johnston Company (“McClure-Johnston”), a distributor of residential and commercial roofing products
and related accessories headquartered in the Pittsburgh suburb of Braddock, Pa. McClure-Johnston has 14 locations with eight in
Pennsylvania, three in West Virginia, one in Western Maryland and two in Georgia. Annual sales are approximately $85 million.
 

-61-
 

 
ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
None.
 
ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
 


1.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

 
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive
officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of September 30, 2012. Based on this evaluation, our chief executive
officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of September 30, 2012, our disclosure controls and procedures were (1) designed
to ensure that material information relating to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc., including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to our chief executive officer and chief financial officer by others within those entities, particularly during the period
in which this report was being prepared and (2) designed to be effective, and were effective, in that they provide reasonable
assurance of achieving their objectives, including that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file
or submit under the Exchange Act is (a) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's
rules and forms and (b) accumulated and communicated to management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer,
to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
 


2.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

 
(a)    Management's Annual Report
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's
principal executive and principal financial officers, and effected by the company's board of directors, management and other personnel,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:
 


 
•
Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

 


 
•
Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and

 


 
•
Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

 
Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable
assurance to our management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations which may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
preparation and presentation. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls
over financial reporting as of September 30, 2012. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on our assessment, we believe
that, as of September 30, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting is effective at the reasonable assurance level based
on those criteria.
 

-62-
 

 
Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm has issued
a report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. This report appears below.
 
(b)    Attestation Report
of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
 
We have audited Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2012, based on the COSO criteria.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.
as of September 30, 2012 and 2011 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and comprehensive
income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2012 and our report dated November 29, 2012
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 


 
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Boston, Massachusetts
 

November 29, 2012
 

 
 

 

-63-
 

 
(c)    Changes in Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting
 
No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) occurred during the fiscal quarter ended
September 30, 2012 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.
 
  
ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION
 
We have no information to report pursuant
to Item 9B.
 

-64-
 

 
PART III
 
This part of our Form 10-K, which includes Items 10 through
14, is omitted because we will file definitive proxy material pursuant to Regulation 14A not more than 120 days after
the close of our year-end, which proxy material will include the information required by Items 10 through 14 and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
PART IV 
 
ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
(a)   (1)    Financial
Statements
 
The following financial statements of our
Company and Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report:
 


 
•
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

 


 
•
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2012 and 2011

 


 
•
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010

 


 
•
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010

 


 
•
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010

 


 
•
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

 
(2)    Financial Statement
Schedules
 
Financial statement schedules have been omitted because they
are either not applicable or the required information has been disclosed in the financial statements or notes thereto.
 
(3)    Exhibits
 
Exhibits are set forth on the attached exhibit index.
 

-65-
 

 
  SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
BEACON ROOFING SUPPLY, INC.

 
(REGISTRANT)

 
 
 
 

 
By:
 
/s/   DAVID R. GRACE

 
 
 
David R. Grace

 
 
 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Date: November 29, 2012
 
 
 

 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.
 


SIGNATURE
 
TITLE
 
DATE

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   ROBERT R. BUCK
 
Chairman
 
November 29, 2012

Robert R. Buck
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   PAUL M. ISABELLA
 
President and Chief Executive Officer
 
November 29, 2012

Paul M. Isabella
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   DAVID R. GRACE
 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
November 29, 2012

David R. Grace
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   RICK C. WELKER
 
Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
 
November 29, 2012

Rick C. Welker
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   H. ARTHUR BELLOWS, JR.
 
Director
 
November 29, 2012

H. Arthur Bellows, Jr.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   RICHARD W. FROST
 
Director
 
November 29, 2012

Richard W. Frost
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   JAMES J. GAFFNEY
 
Director
 
November 29, 2012

James J. Gaffney
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   PETER M. GOTSCH
 
Director
 
November 29, 2012

Peter M. Gotsch
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   NEIL S. NOVICH
 
Director
 
November 29, 2012

Neil S. Novich
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   STUART A. RANDLE
 
Director
 
November 29, 2012

Stuart A. Randle
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/   WILSON B. SEXTON
 
Director
 
November 29, 2012

Wilson B. Sexton
 
 
 
 

 

-66-
 

 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
EXHIBIT
 


EXHIBIT
NUMBER
 
 

3.1
 
Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 25, 2004)

 
 
 

3.2
 
Amended and Restated By-Laws of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2007)

 
 
 

4.1
 
Form of Specimen Common Stock Certificate of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s Registration Statement on S-1 (Registration No. 333-116027))

 
 
 

10.1
 
Credit Agreement, dated as of April 5, 2012, among Beacon Sales Acquisition, Inc. and Beacon Roofing Supply Canada Corporation, as borrowers, Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc., as one of the Guarantors, the Lenders party thereto, and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 5, 2012)

 
 
 

10.2
 
Severance Agreement and General Release dated July 17, 2012 by and between David R. Grace and Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. and Beacon Sales Acquisition, Inc.*

 
 
 

10.3
 
Form of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan Stock Option Agreement for all employees, including executive officers who are not directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2008)*

 
 
 

10.4
 
Form of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan Stock Option Agreement for non-employee directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006)*

 
 
 

10.6
 
Executive Securities Agreement dated as of October 20, 2003 by and between Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc., Robert Buck and Code, Hennessy & Simmons III, L.P. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-116027))

 
 
 

10.8
 
1998 Stock Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-119747))*

 
 
 

10.9
 
Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company’s 2012 Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting held on February 8, 2011)*

 
 
 

10.10
 
First Amendment dated as of October 31, 2011 to the Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011)*

 
 
 

10.11
 
Description of CEO Relocation Assistance Arrangement (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2011)*

 
 
 

10.12
 
Description of Management Cash Bonus Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.'s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2010)*

 
 
 

10.13
 
Form of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 10, 2011)*

 
 
 

10.14
 
Form of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 10, 2011)*

 
 

-67-
 

 
 


10.15
 
Form of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for Employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 16, 2011)*



 
 
 


10.16
 
 
 
Form of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan Time-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for Employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 16, 2011)*

 
 
 

21
 
Subsidiaries of Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.

 
 
 

23.1
 
Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

 
 
 

31.1
 
CEO certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

 
 
 

31.2
 
CFO certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

 
 
 

32.1
 
CEO certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

 
 
 

32.2
 
CFO certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

 
 
 

101.INS
 
XBRL Instance Document**

 
 
 

101.SCH
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document**

 
 
 

101.CAL
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document**

 
 
 

101.DEF
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document**

 
 
 

101.LAB
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document**

 
 
 

101.PRE
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document**

  

 
  


  *
Compensatory plan or arrangement.

**
XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.

 

-68-

 




