
10-K
1
a2207170z10-k.htm
10-K

















 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549  
FORM 10-K  











ý
 
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011
OR


o
 
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




For the transition period from                  to
                
Commission file number 1-16725  
PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 













Delaware
 
711 High Street,
 
42-1520346


(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 Des Moines, Iowa 50392 (Address of principal executive offices)
 
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification Number)




(515) 247-5111 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) 
Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 











Title of each class
Common Stock, par value $0.01
Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
 
Name of each exchange on which registered
New York Stock Exchange
New York Stock Exchange




        Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes
ý No o 
        Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes
o No ý 
        Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes ý No o 
        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes ý No o 
        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this
chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment of this Form 10-K. ý 
        Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer", "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 















Large accelerated filer ý
 
Accelerated filer o
 
Non-accelerated filer o
 
Smaller reporting company o




        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.) Yes
o No ý 
        As of February 8, 2012, there were outstanding 301,454,134 shares of Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share of the Registrant. 
        The
aggregate market value of the shares of the Registrant's common equity held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was $9,542,992,614 based on the closing price of $30.42
per share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2011. 
Documents Incorporated by Reference  
        The information required to be furnished pursuant to Part III of this Form 10-K is set forth in, and is hereby incorporated by reference
herein from, the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 22, 2012, to be filed by the Registrant with the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2011. 

 




 










Table of Contents 
 
 PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
TABLE OF CONTENTS  

 














  PART I
 
4


 Item 1.
 
 Business
 
4


 Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
 
17


 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
29


 Item 2.
 
 Properties
 
29


 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
29


  Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
30


  PART II
 
31


 Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities
 
31


 Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
32


 Item 7.
 
 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
 
33


 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
77


 Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
82


 
 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
83


 
 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
84


 
 
 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
 
85


 
 
 Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
86


 
 
 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
 
87


 
 
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
89


 
 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
90


 Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
 
189


 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
189


 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
 
189


  PART III
 
190


 Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
190


 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
 
190


 Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters
 
190


 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence
 
191


 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
191


  PART IV
 
192


 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
192


  Signatures
 
193


  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Schedules
 
194


  Schedule I — Summary of Investments — Other Than Investments in Related Parties
 
195


  Schedule II — Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Only)
 
196


  Schedule III — Supplementary Insurance Information
 
200


  Schedule IV — Reinsurance
 
202


  Exhibit Index
 
203





2




 










Table of Contents 
 NOTE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  
        This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, contains statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to
trends in operations and financial results and the business and the products of the Registrant and its subsidiaries, as well as other statements including words such as "anticipate," "believe,"
"plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend" and other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and
their potential effects on us. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. 
        Actual
results may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not
limited to the risk factors listed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." 
3




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART I     
 
    Item 1.    Business     
        Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("PFG") is a leading provider of retirement savings, investment and insurance products and services
with $335.0 billion in assets under management ("AUM") and approximately 18.0 million customers worldwide as of December 31, 2011. 
        Our
U.S. and international operations concentrate primarily on asset accumulation and asset management. In addition, we offer a broad range of individual and group life insurance,
individual and group disability insurance and group dental and vision insurance. 
        We
primarily focus on small and medium-sized businesses, which we define as companies with less than 1,000 employees, providing a broad array of retirement and employee benefit
solutions to meet the needs of the business, the business owner and their employees. We are the leading provider of corporate defined contribution plans in the U.S., according to Spectrem Group. We
are also the leading employee stock ownership plan consultant. In addition, we are a leading provider of nonqualified plans, defined benefit plans and plan termination annuities. We are also one of
the largest providers of specialty benefits insurance product solutions. 
        We
believe small and medium-sized businesses are an underserved market, offering attractive growth opportunities in the U.S. in retirement services and other employee benefits. We also
believe there is a significant opportunity to leverage our U.S. retirement expertise into select international markets that have adopted or are moving toward private sector defined contribution
pension systems. This opportunity is particularly compelling as aging populations around the world are driving increased demand for retirement accumulation, retirement asset management and retirement
income management solutions. 
 Our Reportable Segments  
        We organize our businesses into the following reportable segments:


•Retirement and Investor Services; 
•Principal Global Investors; 
•Principal International and 
•U.S. Insurance Solutions. 

        We
also have a Corporate segment, which consists of the assets and activities that have not been allocated to any other segment. 
        See
Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Segment Information" for financial results of our segments,
including our operating revenues for our products and services described in each of the subsequent segment discussions. 
 Retirement and Investor Services Segment  
        Our asset accumulation activities in the U.S. date back to the 1940s when we first began providing pension plan products and services.
We now offer a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services for retirement savings and investment:


•To businesses of all sizes with a concentration on small and medium-sized businesses, we offer products and services for
defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan ("ESOP") consulting
services. For more basic investment needs, we offer SIMPLE Individual Retirement Accounts ("IRA") and payroll deduction plans; 
•To large institutional clients, we also offer investment-only products, including guaranteed investment contracts ("GICs")
and funding agreements and 
•To employees of businesses and other individuals, we offer the ability to accumulate savings for retirement and other
purposes through mutual funds, individual annuities and bank products. 

        We
organize our Retirement and Investor Services operations into six product and service categories: full service accumulation, Principal Funds (our mutual fund business), individual
annuities, bank and trust services, investment only and full service payout. 
 Full Service Accumulation  
 Products  
        We offer a wide variety of investment and administrative products for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b)
plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and ESOPs. A 403(b) plan is a plan described in Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code that provides retirement
benefits for employees of tax-exempt organizations and public schools. 
4



 
Table of Contents
        Full
service accumulation products respond to the needs of plan sponsors seeking both administrative and investment services for defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. The
investment component of both the defined contribution and defined benefit plans may be in the form of a general account, separate account, a mutual fund offering or a collective investment trust. In
addition, defined contribution plans may also offer their own employer security as an investment option. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, we provided full service accumulation products to over 29,600 defined contribution pension plans, of which approximately 24,200 were 401(k) plans,
covering 3.2 million eligible plan participants, and to over 2,400 defined benefit pension plans, covering over 325,000 eligible plan participants. As of December 31, 2011, approximately
61% of our full service accumulation account values were managed by our affiliated asset manager, Principal Global Investors. Third-party asset managers provide asset management services with respect
to the remaining assets. 
        We
deliver both administrative and investment services to our defined contribution plan and defined benefit plan customers through annuities and mutual funds. Annuities and the
underlying investment options are not required to be registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our mutual fund offering is called Principal Advantage. It is a
qualified plan product based on our series mutual fund, Principal Funds, Inc. We offer investments covering the full range of stable value, equity, fixed income, real estate and international
investment options managed by our Principal Global Investors segment as well as third-party asset managers. 
 Markets and Distribution  
        We offer our full service accumulation products and services to employer-sponsored pension plans, including qualified and nonqualified
defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. Our primary target market is plans sponsored by small and medium-sized businesses, which we believe remains under-penetrated. According to
Spectrem Group, in 2010, only 24% of businesses with between 10 and 49 employees, 48% of businesses with between 50 and 99 employees, 55% of businesses with between 100 and
249 employees and 62% of businesses with between 250 and 500 employees offered a 401(k) plan. The same study indicates that 73% of employers with between 500 and 1,000 employees,
84% of employers with between 1,000 and 5,000 employees and 86% of employers with 5,000 or more employees offered a 401(k) plan in 2010. 
        We
distribute our full service accumulation products and services nationally, primarily through a captive retirement services sales force. As of December 31, 2011, over 110
retirement services sales representatives in over 42 offices, operating as a wholesale distribution network, maintained relationships with over 11,600 independent brokers, consultants and agents.
Retirement services sales representatives are an integral part of the sales process alongside the referring consultant or independent broker. We compensate retirement services sales representatives
through a blend of salary and production-based incentives, while we pay independent brokers, consultants and agents a commission or fee. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, we had a separate staff of over 280 service and education specialists located in the sales offices who play a key role in the ongoing servicing of pension
plans by providing local services to our customers, such as reviewing plan performance, investment options and plan design; communicating the customers' needs and
feedback to us and helping employees understand the benefits of their pension plans. The following summarizes our distribution channels:


•We distribute our annuity-based products through sales representatives, agents and brokers who are primarily state
licensed individuals. 
•Principal Advantage, our mutual fund-based product, is targeted at defined contribution plans through broker-dealer
distribution channels. Principal Advantage gives us access to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority-registered distributors who are not traditional sellers of annuity-based products and broadens
opportunities for us in the investment advisor and broker-dealer distribution channels. 
•Principal Retirement Income Edge® is designed to create a coordinated experience from accumulation to income
management for advisors to use with their individual clients and plan participants who are nearing or enjoying retirement. The Principal Retirement Income Edge® program provides education
and planning tools as well as a wide variety of products such as annuities, mutual funds and bank products to provide personalized income management solutions.  
•Through our Retire Secure strategy we provide financial education and assistance to individual investors who are
participants/members of employer-based accumulation solutions to help them achieve financial security. 

        We
believe that our approach to full service accumulation plan services distribution gives us a local sales and service presence that differentiates us from many of our competitors. We
have also established a number of marketing and distribution relationships to increase the sales of our accumulation products. 
 Principal Funds  
        We have been providing mutual funds to customers since 1969. We offer mutual funds to individuals, businesses and institutional
investors for use within variable life and variable annuity contracts, for use in employer-sponsored pension plans, as a rollover investment option, and for general investment purposes. 
5



 
Table of Contents
 Products and Services  
        Principal Funds plans to grow into a top advisor sold mutual fund company with a sales force focused on multiple channels. As of
December 2011, as reported by the Strategic Insight, we are ranked 21st according to AUM (long term funds) of the top 50 intermediary sold mutual funds. We provide accounting, compliance,
corporate governance and product development for all mutual funds we organize. As of December 31, 2011, our mutual fund operations served approximately 1.1 million mutual fund
shareholder accounts. 
        Principal Funds, Inc.    Principal Funds, Inc. ("PFI") is a series mutual fund that, as of December 31, 2011, offered 63
investment options. This
fund's five R class shares act as the funding vehicle for Principal Advantage, the defined contribution product described above under "Retirement and Investor Services
Segment — Full Service Accumulation — Products." This fund also offers three retail classes of shares to individuals. One of the three retail share classes is for
IRA rollovers (J shares) and two are for general investment purposes (A and C shares). Two additional classes of shares are available: (1) I shares, which are offered
primarily to specified institutional investors, and (2) P shares, which are used primarily in adviser fee-based programs. As of December 31, 2011, the retail classes of shares had
$24.4 billion of AUM. All other share classes of Principal Funds, Inc. had $39.2 billion of AUM. We report the results for this fund, excluding the retail AUM, under "Full Service
Accumulation." We report the results of the retail AUM under "Principal Funds." 
         Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc.    Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc. is a series mutual fund that, as of
December 31, 2011,
provided 34 investment options for variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts issued by Principal Life Insurance Company ("Principal Life") and other insurance companies not affiliated
with Principal Life. As of December 31, 2011, this fund had $5.3 billion of AUM. AUM backing Principal Life variable annuity contracts is reported in this segment under "Individual
Annuities." AUM backing Principal Life variable life insurance contracts is reported in the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment. 
         Principal Managed Portfolio.    Principal Managed Portfolio is an advisory product offered by our registered investment advisor,
Princor Financial
Services Corporation ("Princor"), which permits the client to invest only in Principal Funds, Inc. Clients are charged a quarterly asset-based fee on this product. As of December 31, 2011,
Principal Managed Portfolio had accumulated $608.0 million in assets. 
        Principal Advisory Select and Principal Dynamic Portfolios.    These are advisory products offered by our registered investment
advisor, Princor, which
permits the client to invest in a broad array of investments. Clients are charged a quarterly asset-based fee on these products. As of December 31, 2011, these products had accumulated
$1.6 billion in assets. 
 Markets and Distribution  
        Our markets for PFI's retail share classes are individuals seeking to accumulate savings for retirement and other purposes, as well as
nonqualified individual savings plans utilizing payroll deductions. We
also market PFI's retail share classes to participants in pension plans who are departing their plans and reinvesting their retirement assets into individual retirement accounts. 
        We
sell PFI's retail share classes primarily through registered representatives from other broker-dealers; affiliated financial representatives; independent brokers registered with our
securities broker-dealer, Princor; direct deposits from our employees and others and Principal Connection. As of December 31, 2011, 58 retail sales representatives across the United States,
operating as a wholesale distribution network, maintained relationships with over 36,700 independent brokers, consultants and agents. Principal Connection is our direct response distribution channel
for retail financial services products to individuals. Principal Connection's services are available over the phone, on the Internet or by mail. Princor recruits, trains and supervises registered
representatives selling our products through Principal Connection. 
 Individual Annuities  
        Individual annuities offer a tax-deferred means of accumulating retirement savings, as well as a tax-efficient source of income during
the payout period. 
 Products  
        We offer both fixed and variable annuities to individuals and pension plans. Individual annuities may be categorized in two ways:
(1) deferred, in which case assets accumulate until the contract is surrendered, the customer dies or the customer begins receiving benefits under an annuity payout option, or
(2) immediate/payout, in which case payments begin within one year of issue and continue for a fixed period of time or for life. 
         Fixed Deferred Annuities.    Our individual fixed deferred annuities consist of both single premium deferred annuity contracts and
flexible premium
deferred annuity contracts ("FPDAs"). Some FPDA contracts limit the period of time deposits are allowed (e.g., only one year). For most contracts, the principal amount is guaranteed. We credit the
customer's account with a fixed interest rate and for a specified number of years. Thereafter, we reset, typically annually, the interest rate credited to the contract based upon our discretion,
subject to contractual minimums, by taking into account market and other conditions. We also offer a fixed deferred annuity where the interest credited is linked to an external equity index, subject
to maximum and minimum values. Our major source of income from fixed deferred annuities is the spread between the investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest 
6



 
Table of Contents
rate
credited to the contracts. We bear the investment risk because, while we credit customers' accounts with a stated interest rate, we cannot be certain the investment income we earn on our general
account assets will exceed that rate. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting these contracts. 
         Variable Deferred Annuities.    Individual variable deferred annuities are savings vehicles through which the customer makes one or
more deposits of
varying amounts and intervals. Customers have the flexibility to allocate their deposits to investment sub-accounts managed by the Principal Global Investors segment or other third-party asset
managers. As of December 31, 2011, 83% of our $5.7 billion in variable annuity account balances was allocated to investment sub-accounts and our general account, which are managed by the
Principal Global Investors segment and 17% was allocated to investment sub-accounts managed by third-party asset managers. Generally speaking, the customers bear the investment risk and have the right
to allocate their assets among various separate investment sub-accounts. The value of the annuity fluctuates in accordance with the experience of the investment sub-accounts chosen by the customer.
Customers have the option to allocate all or a portion of their account to our general account, in which case we credit interest at rates we determine, subject to contractual minimums. Customers may
elect a living benefit guarantee (commonly known in the industry as a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit, or "GMWB"). We bear the GMWB investment risk. We attempt to hedge the GMWB investment risk
through the use of sophisticated risk management techniques. As of December 31, 2011, $2.8 billion of the $5.7 billion of variable annuity account value had the GMWB rider. Our
major source of revenue from variable annuities is mortality and expense fees we charge to the customer, generally determined as a percentage of the market value of the assets held in a separate
investment sub-account. 
         Fixed Immediate Annuities.    Our individual fixed immediate annuities consist almost exclusively of single premium immediate
annuity contracts
("SPIAs"). SPIAs are products where the customer makes a single deposit and from which periodic benefit payments are made. Payments may be contingent upon the survival of one or two individuals or
payments may be fixed, meaning payments are contractually guaranteed and do not depend on the continuing survival of any individual. Our major source of income from fixed immediate annuities is the
spread between the investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest rate implied in the calculation of annuity benefit payments. We bear the investment risk because
we cannot be certain the investment income we earn on our general account assets will exceed the rate implied in the SPIA contracts. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets
supporting these contracts. 
 Markets and Distribution  
        Our target markets for individual annuities include owners, executives and employees of small and medium-sized businesses and
individuals seeking to accumulate and/or eventually receive distributions of assets for retirement. We market both fixed and variable annuities to individuals for both qualified and nonqualified
retirement savings. 
        We
sell our individual annuity products through our affiliated financial representatives, who accounted for 50%, 43% and 34% of annuity sales for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The remaining sales were made through banks, brokerage general agencies, mutual fund companies, Principal Connection and unaffiliated broker-dealer firms. Affiliated
financial representatives continued to be the primary distribution channel of our variable deferred annuities. The majority of overall annuity sales, however, were from non-affiliated distribution
channels, as a result of focused efforts to increase fixed annuity sales through non-affiliated distribution channels. 
 Bank and Trust Services  
        Bank and trust services includes Principal Bank and Principal Trust Company. Principal Bank is a federal savings bank that began its
activities in February 1998. As of December 31, 2011, Principal Bank had
over 240,000 customers and approximately $2.4 billion in assets. Delaware Charter Guarantee & Trust Company, dba Principal Trust Company, is a Delaware state chartered non-deposit trust
company that was chartered in 1899. It is one of the largest non-deposit trust companies in the U.S. As of December 31, 2011, we served as trustee to over 436,000 accounts, which held assets of
approximately $103.7 billion. Principal Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans. 
 Products  
        Our current bank products and services include a suite of consumer checking and savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates
of deposit ("CDs"), individual retirement accounts and small account rollovers from qualified retirement plans. In addition, we offer deposit and loan services to small and medium-sized businesses.
Principal Bank participates in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service program through which certain customer CDs are exchanged for CDs of similar amounts from participating banks. The
deposit products provide a relatively stable source of funding and liquidity and are used to fund purchases of investment securities and loans. 
        Principal
Trust Company specializes in providing trust solutions for a full array of employee benefit plans and accounts including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans,
nonqualified executive benefit plans, ESOPs, and self-directed tax-advantaged savings accounts, such as IRAs. Principal Trust Company also maintains a series of collective investment funds, The
Principal TrustSM Target Date Funds, and provides personal trust services. 
7



 
Table of Contents
 Markets and Distribution  
        We offer our bank products and services to employees of businesses and other individuals, through Principal Connection, our affiliated
financial representatives and other PFG affiliates with a primary focus on helping customers accumulate savings for retirement and other purposes. We also pursue asset retention strategies with
customers who seek to transfer assets from our other asset accumulation products by offering them our banking products and services. Principal Bank services customers through the telephone, mail and
Internet. 
        We
deliver our directed trust services to customers through our PFG affiliates. Administrative trust services for self-directed tax-advantaged savings accounts are sold through
non-affiliated brokerage firms, clearing firms, financial advisors and asset managers. 
 Investment Only  
 Products  
        The three primary products for which we provide investment only services are: GICs, funding agreements and other investment only
products. 
        GICs
and funding agreements pay a specified rate of return. The rate of return can be a floating rate based on an external market index or a fixed rate. Our investment only products
contain provisions disallowing or limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements. 
        Deposits
to investment only products are predominantly in the form of single payments. As a result, the level of new deposits can fluctuate from one fiscal quarter to another. Assets
invested in GICs and funding agreements generate a spread between the investment income earned by us and the amount credited to the customer. Our other investment only products consist of separate
accounts invested in either equities or fixed income instruments. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting investment only account values. 
 Markets and Distribution  
        We market GICs and funding agreements primarily to pension plan sponsors and other institutions. We also offer them as part of our full
service accumulation products. We sell our GICs primarily to plan sponsors for funding of tax-qualified retirement plans. We sell our funding agreements directly to institutions that may or may not be
pension funds and unconsolidated special purpose vehicles domiciled either in the U.S. or offshore for funding agreement-backed note programs. The funding agreements sold as part of these funding
agreement-backed note programs work by having investors purchase debt obligations from the special purpose vehicle which, in turn, purchases the funding agreement from us with terms similar to those
of the debt obligations. The strength of this market is dependent on debt capital market conditions. As a result, our sales through this channel can vary widely from one quarter to another. 
 Full Service Payout  
 Products  
        Full service payout products respond to the needs of pension plan participants who, upon retirement or termination of their employment,
seek a guaranteed income stream. Plan participants who seek these services include those from pension plans we service, as well as pension plans other providers service. We primarily offer single
premium group annuities, which are immediate or deferred annuities that provide a current or future specific income amount, fully guaranteed by us. These are available to defined contribution and
defined benefit plan participants. We make regular payments to individuals, invest the underlying assets on their behalf and provide tax reporting to them. We also reinsure single premium immediate
annuities issued by another insurer. 
        Single
premium group annuities are traditionally used in conjunction with defined benefit plans, particularly those where the plan is being terminated. In such instances, the plan
sponsor transfers all its obligations under the plan to an insurer by paying a single premium. Increasingly, these products are purchased by defined contribution plan participants who reach retirement
age. Generally, plan sponsors restrict their purchases to insurance companies with superior or excellent financial quality ratings because the Department of Labor has mandated that annuities be
purchased only from the "safest available" insurers. 
        Premium
received from full service payout products are generally in the form of single payments. As a result, the level of new premiums can fluctuate depending on the number of
retirements and large-scale annuity sales in a particular fiscal quarter. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting full service payout account values. 
 Markets and Distribution  
        Our primary distribution channel for full service payout products is comprised of several specialized home office sales consultants
working through consultants and brokers that specialize in this type of business. Our sales consultants also make sales directly to institutions. Our nationally dispersed retirement services sales
representatives act as a secondary distribution channel for these products. Principal Connection also distributes full service payout products to participants in plans we service who are terminating
employment or retiring. 
8



 
Table of Contents
 Principal Global Investors Segment  
        Our Principal Global Investors segment manages assets for sophisticated investors around the world, using a multi-boutique strategy
that enables the segment to provide an expanded range of diverse investment capabilities including equity, fixed income and real estate investments. We also have experience in currency management,
asset allocation, stable value management and other structured investment strategies. We focus on providing services to our other segments and third-party institutional clients. We maintain offices in
Australia, Brazil, Dubai, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Netherlands, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the United States. 
        We
deliver our products and services through our network of specialized investment groups and boutiques including Principal Global Investors — Equities; Principal
Global Investors — Fixed Income; Principal Real Estate Investors; Principal Enterprise Capital; Spectrum Asset Management; Post Advisory Group, LLC; Columbus Circle Investors; Edge
Asset Management; Morley Financial Services; Macro Currency Group; Finisterre Capital LLP and Origin Asset Management LLP. Additionally, Multi-Asset Advisors was established during 2011 to provide
advice on multi-asset strategies to clients globally and to manage customized multi-asset products. As of December 31, 2011, Principal Global Investors and its boutiques managed
$227.8 billion in assets. 
 Products and Services  
        Our products and services are provided for a fee as defined by client mandates. Our fees are generally driven by AUM. We are
diversified across three primary asset classes. 
        Equity Investments.    As of December 31, 2011, Principal Global Investors — Equities along with Columbus Circle
Investors,
Edge Asset Management and Origin Asset Management LLP managed $68.4 billion in global equity assets. Our equity capabilities encompass large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap stocks in developed and
emerging markets worldwide. As of December 31, 2011, 42% of equity AUM was derived from our pension products, 25% from other products of PFG and the remaining 33% from third-party institutional
clients. 
        Fixed Income Investments.    As of December 31, 2011, Principal Global Investors — Fixed Income along with Spectrum
Asset
Management; Post Advisory Group, LLC; Edge Asset Management; Morley Financial Services and Finisterre Capital LLP managed $116.2 billion in global fixed income assets. Collectively, our
experience in fixed income management spans multiple economic and credit market cycles, and encompasses all major fixed income sectors and security types. Our research and risk management capabilities
in worldwide debt markets provide a strong foundation for broadly diversified "multi-sector" portfolios, tailored to specific client objectives. As of December 31, 2011, 33% of these assets
were derived from our pension products, 33% from other products of PFG, and the remaining 34% from third-party institutional clients. 
         Real Estate Investments.    Principal Global Investors, through its affiliates Principal Real Estate Investors and Principal
Enterprise Capital, managed
a portfolio of primarily U.S. commercial real estate assets of $38.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. Principal Real Estate Investors provides our clients with a broad range of real
estate investment options including private real estate equity, commercial mortgages, bridge/mezzanine loans, commercial mortgage-backed securities and real estate investment trust securities. As of
December 31, 2011, 28% of the commercial real estate portfolio was derived from our pension products, 29% from other products of PFG and the remaining 43% from third-party institutional
clients. 
         Other.    We offer products and services through other asset classes including managing currency mandates through our Macro
Currency Group boutique. As
of December 31, 2011, we managed $4.5 billion with 100% of these assets derived from third-party institutional clients. 
        Multi-Asset
Advisors was established during 2011 to provide advice on multi-asset strategies to global clients and to develop and manage customized multi-asset products to address
specific client needs. Multi-Asset Advisors helps Principal Global Investors optimize our broad range of capabilities while enhancing our position as a thought leader and trusted advisor to large
institutional clients. 
 Markets and Distribution  
        We employed 103 institutional sales, relationship management and client service professionals as of December 31, 2011, who
worked with consultants and directly with large investors to acquire and retain third-party institutional clients. As of December 31, 2011, Principal Global Investors and its boutiques had
approximately 647 third-party institutional clients with $82.4 billion of AUM in 35 countries. 
 Principal International Segment  
        Our Principal International segment has operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR"), India,
Mexico and Southeast Asia. We focus on countries with large middle classes, favorable demographics, and growing long-term savings, ideally with defined contribution retirement markets. We entered
these locations through acquisitions, start-up operations and joint ventures. 
        The
activities of our Principal International segment reflect our efforts to accelerate the growth of our AUM by capitalizing on the international trend toward private sector defined
contribution pension systems and individual long- 
9



 
Table of Contents
term
savings. Through the Principal International segment, we offer retirement products and services, annuities, mutual funds, institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products. 
 Products, Markets and Distribution  
        Brazil.    We offer pension, retirement income and asset accumulation products through a co-managed joint venture, Brasilprev
Seguros e
Previdencia ("Brasilprev") in which PFG owns 25% of the economic interest and 50.01% of the voting shares. The partner is Banco do Brasil ("Banco"), which had approximately 5,140 Brazilian branches as
of September 30, 2011. Brasilprev has an exclusive agreement with Banco to distribute pension, retirement and long-term asset accumulation products. Our joint venture provides defined
contribution products, complementary
life protection and payout solutions for the retirement needs of employers and individuals. Banco's employees sell these products directly to individual clients through its bank branches. In addition,
our joint venture reaches corporate clients through two wholesale distribution channels: (1) a network of independent brokers who sell to the public and (2) Banco's corporate account
executives selling to existing and prospective corporate clients. According to Federação Nacional de Previdência e Vida, our joint venture ranked third in
the Brazilian private pension market based upon managed assets as of November 30, 2011. 
         Chile.    We offer long-term savings products, retirement annuities, mutual funds, life insurance accumulation products, mortgage
loans and
institutional asset management services. 
        Retirement
annuities are offered to individuals exiting the pre-retirement accumulation system. Annuity products are distributed through a network of brokers and independent agents
numbering approximately 340 as of December 31, 2011. 
        We
serve the individual and group voluntary/complementary long-term savings market by offering "APV plans" (qualified individual retirement solutions) and "APVC plans" (qualified group
retirement solutions that are similar to the U.S. 401(k) product line). According to the Asociacion de Adminstradoras de Fondos Mutuous de Chile, we ranked first in AUM for mutual fund companies
offering these plans in Chile as of November 30, 2011. The plans, together with non-qualified mutual fund products, are distributed to retail clients through our proprietary sales force,
financial advisors, brokerage houses, alliances with financial institutions and the largest retailer in Chile, Falabella. 
        Life
insurance accumulation products are also offered to individuals through brokers and financial advisors. We originate, sell and service individual residential mortgage loans in Chile
through our independent distribution network, which is composed primarily of real estate brokers and developers. We also offer institutional asset management services to pension funds, insurance
companies, mutual fund companies and investment platforms through our proprietary sales force. 
        China.    We offer mutual funds and asset management services to individuals and institutions through a minority-held joint venture
that includes China
Construction Bank ("CCB"), the majority partner. We sell mutual funds primarily through our partner bank, CCB. The bank provides extensive distribution capabilities for the joint venture in terms of
brand awareness and the number of branch outlets, which number approximately 13,630. 
         Hong Kong SAR.    We sell defined contribution pension, mutual fund and institutional asset management products. 
        We
actively compete in the defined contribution pension plan market. The government currently requires both employers and employees to each contribute 5% of an employee's income to a
Mandatory Provident Fund ("MPF"). We target small and medium-sized employers and distribute products through strategic alliances with insurance companies, brokers, consultants, banks and direct
marketing. Our alliance partners distribute our MPF products and services or use our administrative and investment services in their own products. We are expanding our distribution capability to
complement our MPF and mutual fund businesses by developing a proprietary sales force that will focus on retirement and long-term investment products. 
        We
sell mutual funds to retail customers primarily through strategic alliances with banks. To grow institutional asset management, our operations in Hong Kong SAR leverage Principal
Global Investors' regional asset management and sales resources to jointly secure mandates. 
         India.    We offer mutual funds and asset management services to both retail and corporate customers. 
        In
the mutual funds market, we compete by managing and administering funds for both individuals and corporations through a majority-owned joint venture. The minority partners are Punjab
National Bank and Vijaya Bank, two large Indian commercial banks with a combined network of approximately 6,350 branches. Mutual funds are sold through regional offices and other bank branches located
throughout India. In addition to the current mutual fund business, we are positioning ourselves to compete in the emerging pension and long-term savings market in India by developing a proprietary
distribution company that will focus on retirement and long-term investment products. 
         Mexico.    We offer defined contribution pension products, mutual funds, annuities and asset management services to institutional
clients. 
        On
August 8, 2011, we finalized the purchase of our 100% interest in HSBC AFORE, S.A. de C.V. ("HSBC AFORE"), a Mexican pension business, from HSBC Bank. In addition, on
November 23, 2011, we and Grupo Financiero HSBC signed an exclusive agreement for the distribution of Principal AFORE's products through Grupo Financiero 
10



 
Table of Contents
HSBC's
extensive network in Mexico. HSBC AFORE was merged into our AFORE pension company. Through our AFORE pension company we manage and administer approximately 4.3 million individual
retirement accounts under the mandatory privatized social security system for all non-government employees in Mexico. We distribute products and services through a proprietary sales force of
approximately 1,240 sales representatives as of December 31, 2011, as well as independent brokers who sell directly to individuals. 
        Our
mutual fund company distributes products and services through a sales force of approximately 35 employees and through distribution agreements with other financial entities. We
administer previously sold annuities and life products. Due to unfavorable market conditions, sales of our annuity and life products in Mexico were suspended in 2007. 
        Mexico
has institutional asset management services, offering both domestic and international products. 
         Southeast Asia.    We offer conventional and Islamic mutual funds through our minority-held joint venture with CIMB Group, the
majority partner. CIMB
Group is a large Malaysian bank holding company with a presence in many Southeast Asian countries. The company has a sales force of approximately 5,960 agents selling to retail customers as of
December 31, 2011. We also market mutual funds through wholesale bank channels. The joint venture's main bank
channels include approximately 1,100 bank branches throughout Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Singapore. CIMB-Principal Asset Management ranked second in total unit trust assets managed
and second in Islamic unit trust assets managed in the Malaysian asset management industry as of November 30, 2011. The companies also manage a significant amount of institutional asset
mandates. 
        The
joint venture also has operations in Singapore (CIMB-Principal Asset Management (S) Pte Ltd), Indonesia (PT CIMB-Principal Asset Management) and
Thailand (CIMB-Principal Asset Management Company Limited). 
 U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment  
        Our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment offers individual life insurance and specialty benefits, which include group dental, group vision,
group life, group disability, wellness and individual disability insurance. We focus on providing comprehensive insurance solutions for small and medium-sized businesses and their owners and
executives. 
 Individual Life Insurance  
        We began as an individual life insurer in 1879. Our U.S. operations administer approximately 542,000 individual life insurance policies
with over $146.0 billion of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2011. 
        Small
and medium-sized companies are challenged with how to build quality benefits packages for executives, how to transition the company's ownership to a partner or family member and
how to save for retirement. In addition, executives and other key employees often have personal insurance needs. These needs are the focus of our products within the individual life insurance arena. 
 Products and Services  
        We offer a variety of individual life insurance products, including universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance and
term life insurance. We target the personal insurance needs of owners and executives of small and medium-sized businesses with an increasing focus on providing insurance solutions for nonqualified
executive benefits. In addition, we market our products to meet traditional retail insurance needs. 
        Universal and Variable Universal Life Insurance.    Universal and variable universal life insurance products offer the policyholder
the option of
adjusting both the premium and the death benefit amounts of the insurance contract. Universal life insurance typically includes a cash value account that accumulates at a credited interest rate based
on the investment returns of the block of business. Variable universal life insurance is credited with the investment returns of the various investment options selected. For the year ended
December 31, 2011, 78% of individual life
insurance annualized first year premium sales were generated from universal and variable universal life insurance products. Universal and variable universal life insurance represents 67% of individual
life insurance premium and deposits for the year ended December 31, 2011, and 47% of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2011. Variable universal life insurance
products represented 28% of our universal and variable universal life insurance deposits for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
        After
a deduction for policy level expenses, we credit net deposits to an account maintained for the policyholder. For universal life contracts, the entire account balance is invested in
the general account. Interest is credited to the policyholder's account based on the earnings on general account investments. For variable universal life contracts, the policyholder may allocate the
account balance among our general account and a variety of separate account choices. Interest is credited on amounts allocated to the Principal Life general account in the same manner as for universal
life. Net investment performance on separate account investments is allocated directly to the policyholder accounts; the policyholder bears the investment risk. Some of our universal life and variable
universal life insurance contracts contain what are commonly referred to as "secondary" or "no-lapse" guarantee provisions. A no-lapse guarantee keeps the contract in force,
even if the contractholder's account balance is insufficient to cover all of the contract charges, provided that the contractholder has continually paid a specified minimum premium. 
11



 
Table of Contents
        Traditional Life Insurance.    Traditional life insurance includes participating whole life, adjustable life products and
non-participating term life
insurance products. Participating products and non-participating term life insurance products represented 5% and 17%, respectively, of our individual life insurance annualized first year premium sales
for the year ended December 31, 2011, and 16% and 37%, respectively, of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2011. Adjustable life insurance products provide a
guaranteed benefit in return for the payment of a fixed premium and allow the policyholder to set the coverage period, premium and face amount combination. Term insurance products provide a guaranteed
death benefit for a specified period of time in return for the payment of a fixed premium. Policyholder dividends are not paid on term insurance. 
 Specialty Benefits Insurance  
        Specialty benefits insurance, which includes group dental, vision, life and disability insurance and individual disability insurance is
an important component of the employee benefit offering at small and medium-sized businesses. We offer traditional employer sponsored and voluntary products for group dental, vision, life and
disability. We also offer group dental, vision, and disability on a fee-for-service basis. We began selling our first specialty benefit products in 1941 with group disability and group life insurance.
We began selling individual disability insurance in 1952 and group dental and group vision insurance in the late 1960s. Effective January 1, 2011, Principal Wellness Company, a provider of
wellness services since 2004, transitioned to the Specialty Benefits Insurance division. Also effective January 1, 2011, our fee-for-service group dental, vision, and disability business
transitioned to this division. 
 Products and Services  
         Group Dental and Vision Insurance.    Group dental and vision insurance plans provide partial reimbursement for dental and vision
expenses. As of
December 31, 2011, we had over 33,000 group dental and vision insurance policies in force covering over 896,000 employee lives. According to LIMRA, we were the 8th largest group dental
insurer in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force in 2010. In addition to indemnity and preferred provider organization dental offered on both an employer paid and voluntary basis, we
offer a prepaid dental plan in Arizona through our Employers Dental Services, Inc. subsidiary. 
         Group Life Insurance.    Group life insurance provides coverage to employees and their dependents for a specified period. As of
December 31,
2011, we had nearly 44,000 group policies providing over $109.0 billion of group life insurance in force to approximately 1.8 million employee lives. According to LIMRA in 2010, we were
ranked 4th in the U.S. in terms of the number of group life insurance contracts in force. We currently sell traditional group life insurance that does not provide for accumulation of cash
values on both an employer paid and voluntary basis. Our group life insurance business remains focused on the traditional, annually renewable term product. Group term life and group universal life
accounted for 97% and 3%, respectively, of our total group life insurance in force as of December 31, 2011. We no longer market group universal life insurance to new employer groups. 
         Group Disability Insurance.    Group disability insurance provides a benefit to insured employees who become disabled. In most
instances, this benefit
is in the form of a monthly income. Our group disability products include both short-term and long-term disability, offered on both an employer paid and voluntary basis. Long-term disability
represents 65% of total group disability premium, while short-term disability represents 35% of total group disability premium. In addition, we provide disability management services, also called
rehabilitation services, to assist individuals in returning to work as quickly as possible following disability. We also work with disability claimants to improve the approval rate of Social Security
benefits, thereby reducing payment of benefits by the amount of Social Security payments received. As of December 31, 2011, we served approximately 1.2 million employee lives under
nearly 31,000 contracts, with our group short-term disability business being ranked 5th and our group long-term disability business being ranked 5th in the U.S. as of December 31,
2010, in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force, according to LIMRA. 
         Individual Disability Insurance.    Individual disability insurance products provide a benefit to the insured member in the event
he/she becomes
disabled. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of a monthly income. In addition to income replacement, we offer products to pay business-related costs such as overhead expenses for a
disabled business owner, buy-out costs for business owners purchasing a disabled owner's interest in the business, expenditures for replacement of a key person and business loan payments. As of
December 31, 2011, we served approximately 140,000 individual disability policyholders, with our individual disability business being ranked 7th in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010, in
terms of premium in force, according to LIMRA. 
         Principal Wellness Company.    We recognize the importance of promoting healthy behavior. Principal Wellness Company contributes
expertise in providing
a year round wellness program, wellness screenings, counseling and other services to employers and their employees, designed to improve health, reduce health insurance claim costs, reduce absenteeism
and increase employee productivity. 
        Fee-for-Service.    We offer administration of group dental, disability and vision benefits on a fee-for-service basis. 
12




 










Table of Contents 
 U.S. Insurance Solutions Markets and Distribution  
        For each of our products, administration and distribution channels are customized to meet customer needs and expectations for that
product. 
        We
sell our individual life and individual disability income products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, primarily targeting owners and executives of small and
medium-sized businesses. Small and medium-sized business sales represented 59% of individual life sales and 51% of individual disability sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. Much of our
life insurance sales efforts focus on the Business Owner & Executive Solutions market. This strategy offers solutions to address business owner financial challenges such as exiting the
business, business transition, retaining key employees and retirement planning. Key employees also have needs to supplement retirement income, survivor income, and business protection. We believe the
Business Owner & Executive Solutions segment offers growth opportunities and we will continue to develop strategies to capitalize on this expanding market. 
        We
distribute our individual life and individual disability insurance products through our affiliated financial representatives and independent brokers, as well as other marketing and
distribution alliances. Affiliated financial representatives were responsible for 30% of individual life insurance sales based on first year annualized premium and 14% of individual disability sales
for the year ended December 31, 2011. We had 1,013 affiliated financial representatives in 29 offices. Although they are independent contractors, we have a close tie with affiliated
financial representatives and we offer them benefits, training and access to tools and expertise. To meet the needs of the various marketing channels, particularly the independent brokers, we employ
wholesale distributors — Regional Vice Presidents for individual life and Disability Income Regional Vice Presidents for individual disability. A key differentiator in the
nonqualified executive benefit sale is our Regional Vice Presidents — Nonqualified Plans, who are not only wholesalers but also consultants and subject-matter experts providing
point-of-sale support in closing cases. 
        We
market our group life, disability, dental and vision insurance products to small and medium-sized businesses, primarily targeting our sales toward owners and human resources
professionals. We sell our group life, disability, dental and vision products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. We continually adapt our products and pricing to meet local market
conditions. We market our fee-for-service capabilities to employers that self-insure their employees' dental, disability and vision benefits. We market our wellness and fee-for-service businesses in
all 50 states and the District of Columbia. 
        The
group insurance market continues to see a shift to voluntary/worksite products. In keeping with this market change, which shifts the funding of such products from the employer to the
employee, we have enhanced our focus on our voluntary benefits platform. We believe the voluntary/worksite market presents growth opportunities, and we will continue to develop strategies to
capitalize on this expanding market. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, we had 99 sales representatives and 107 service representatives in 31 offices. Our sales representatives accounted for 95% of our group insurance
sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. The group sales force plays a key role in the ongoing servicing of the case by providing local, responsive services to our customers and their
brokers, such as renewing contracts, revising plans and solving any administrative issues; communicating the customers' needs and feedback to us and helping employees understand the benefits of their
plans. 
 Corporate Segment  
        Our Corporate segment manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of
the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense and preferred stock dividends), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter-segment
eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after-tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Results of our exited group medical
insurance business are reported in this segment. For further details, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Transactions Affecting Comparability." 
 Competition  
        Competition in our segments is based on a number of factors including: scale, service, product features, price, investment performance,
commission structure, distribution capacity, financial strength ratings and name recognition. We compete with a large number of financial services companies such as banks, mutual funds,
broker-dealers, insurers and asset managers. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, more competitive pricing, greater diversity of distribution sources, better brand recognition
or, with respect to insurers,
higher financial strength ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete or may have better investment performance at various times. 
        Competition
in the retirement services market is very fragmented. Our main competitors in this market include Fidelity, ING, Mass Mutual, Vanguard and John Hancock. We believe the
infrastructure and system support needed to meet the needs of the small and medium-sized business market is a significant barrier to entry for our competitors. Many of our competitors in the mutual
fund industry are larger, have been established for a longer period of time, offer less expensive products, have deeper penetration in key distribution channels and have more resources than we do.
There were over 7,500 mutual funds in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010, according to the Investment Company Institute 2011 Investment Company Fact Book. The institutional asset management
market has grown at a rapid pace over the last 
13



 
Table of Contents
decade.
Our primary competitors in this market are large institutional asset management firms, such as Black Rock, PIMCO, J.P. Morgan Chase, Morgan Stanley Investment Management and T. Rowe
Price, some of which offer a broader array of investment products and services and are better known. The asset management business has relatively few barriers to entry and continually attracts new
entrants. The variable annuity market is also highly competitive. We face strong competition from Lincoln Financial Group and John Hancock. Competition in the international markets in which we operate
comes primarily from local financial services firms and other international companies operating on a stand-alone basis or in a partnership with local firms, including ING, AXA, Allianz and American
International Group, Inc. In the highly competitive U.S. insurance industry, our competitors include insurers such as Assurant, Guardian, UNUM, Lincoln Financial Group, MetLife, Sun Life,
Prudential and John Hancock. We believe we distinguish ourselves from our competitors through our:


•full service platform; 
•strong customer relationships; 
•focus on financial performance and 
•performance-oriented culture. 

 Ratings  
        Insurance companies are assigned financial strength ratings by rating agencies based upon factors relevant to policyholders. Financial
strength ratings are generally defined as opinions as to an insurer's financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Information about ratings provides both
industry participants and insurance consumers meaningful insights on specific insurance companies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a stronger ability to pay claims. 
        Principal
Life and Principal National Life Insurance Company ("PNLIC") have been assigned the following insurer financial strength ratings: 













Rating Agency



 
Financial Strength Rating 
 
Rating Structure 


A.M. Best Company, Inc. 
 
A+ ("Superior") with a stable outlook
 
Second highest of 16 rating levels


Fitch Ratings Ltd. 
 
AA- ("Very Strong") with a stable outlook
 
Fourth highest of 21 rating levels


Moody's Investors Service
 
Aa3 ("Excellent") with a stable outlook
 
Fourth highest of 21 rating levels


Standard & Poor's
 
A ("Strong") with a positive outlook
 
Sixth highest of 21 rating levels




        A.M. Best's ratings for insurance companies range from "A++" to "S". A.M. Best indicates that
"A++" and "A+" ratings are assigned to those companies that in A.M. Best's opinion have superior ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders.
Fitch's ratings for insurance companies range from "AAA" to "C". Fitch "AA" ratings indicate very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contractholder obligations on a timely basis. Moody's
Investors Service ratings for insurance companies range from "Aaa" to "C". Moody's Investors Service indicates that "Aa" ratings are assigned to those companies that have demonstrated excellent
financial security. Standard & Poor's ratings for insurance companies range from "AAA" to "R". Standard & Poor's indicates that "A" ratings are assigned to those companies that have
demonstrated strong financial security characteristics. In evaluating a company's financial and operating performance, these rating agencies review its profitability, leverage and liquidity, as well
as its book of business, the adequacy and soundness of its reinsurance, the quality and estimated market value of its assets, the adequacy of its policy reserves, the soundness of its risk management
programs, the experience and competency of its management and other factors. A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's and Standard & Poor's maintain a stable outlook on the U.S. life insurance sector.
However, these rating agencies note that current challenges for the industry such as global sovereign uncertainty, equity market volatility, impact of sustained low interest rates, weakness in the
real estate market, lingering unemployment and weak consumer confidence are putting pressure on the stable outlook. 
        We
believe that our strong ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to our distributors and customers, since ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally
used throughout the industry. Our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and are not
evaluations directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are neither a rating of securities nor a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any security, including our common stock. For more
information on ratings, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Financial Strength Rating and Credit Ratings." 
 Regulation  
        Our businesses are subject to regulation and supervision by U.S. federal and state regulatory authorities as well as non-U.S.
regulatory authorities for our operations outside the U.S., which can have a
significant effect on our business. Our businesses are also affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws as well as tax laws for jurisdictions outside the U.S. 
        PFG,
our parent holding company, is not licensed as an insurer, investment advisor, broker-dealer, bank or other regulated entity. However, because it is the holding company for all of
our operations, it is subject to regulation of our regulated entities, including as an insurance holding company and savings and loan holding company. We are subject to 
14



 
Table of Contents
legal
and regulatory requirements applicable to public companies, including public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting and corporate governance. 
 U.S. Insurance Regulation  
        We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance companies are domiciled. Principal Life and
PNLIC are domiciled in Iowa and their principal insurance regulatory authority is the Insurance Division of the Department of Commerce of the State of Iowa. Our other U.S. insurance companies are
principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to
register with the insurance department in the insurance company's state of domicile and to furnish financial and other information about the operations of the companies within the holding company
system. Transactions affecting the insurers in the holding company system must be fair and at arm's length. Most states have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect
change in control of an insurer or an insurer's holding company and laws requiring prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing
business in that state. 
        Annually,
our U.S. insurance companies must submit an opinion from a board-appointed qualified actuary to state insurance regulators, where licensed, on whether the statutory assets held
backing statutory reserves are sufficient to meet contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot be rendered noting the sufficiency of assets, then the
insurance company must set up additional statutory reserves drawing from available statutory surplus until such an opinion can be given. 
        State
insurance departments have broad administrative powers over the insurance business, including insurance company licensing and examination, agent licensing, establishment of reserve
requirements and solvency standards, premium rate regulation, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, policy form approval, unfair trade and claims practices regulation and other matters. State
insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies. See
Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further detail. 
        In
order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has established risk-based capital standards. The standards require
life insurers to submit a report to state regulators on an annual basis regarding their risk-based capital based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and
business risk. As of December 31, 2011, the statutory surplus of each of our U.S.
life insurance companies exceeded the minimum level of risk-based capital requirements required before state insurance departments would take action against an insurer. 
        State
and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or
investigations regarding our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws and securities laws. 
        Each
state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in order to cover contractual benefit
obligations of insolvent insurance companies. The guaranty associations levy assessments on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by
such insurer in the lines of business in which the insolvent insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit the member insurers to recover the assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
offsets. 
 Securities Regulation  
        Insurance and investment products such as variable annuities, variable life insurance and some funding agreements that constitute
securities and mutual fund products are subject to securities laws and regulations, including state securities regulation as well as federal regulation under the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority and other regulatory authorities. These regulations affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products. 
        We
also have entities which are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. 
 Employee Retirement Income Security Act  
        As we provide products and services for U.S. employee benefit plans, we are subject to regulation under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act ("ERISA"). ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure requirements and standards of conduct. 
 Banking Regulation  
        We are a savings and loan holding company for Principal Bank, a federal savings bank, which is regulated by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. Principal Bank is also a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and subject to its regulations. With the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), we are now supervised by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago ("Federal Reserve"). This oversight began in July 2011 and includes oversight of all
entities within the PFG family. 
15



 
Table of Contents
 Environmental Regulation  
        As we own and operate real property, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and could be subject to
environmental liabilities and costs associated with required remediation of our properties. We routinely have environmental assessments performed for real estate being acquired or used as collateral
for commercial mortgages we use for investment. 
 Regulation of International Businesses  
        Our international businesses are supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. 
 Risk Management  
        Like all financial services companies, we are exposed to a wide variety of financial, operational and other risks, as described in
Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Effective enterprise risk management is, therefore, a key component of our business model. Enterprise risk management helps us to:


•identify and manage those risks that present profitable growth opportunities, and avoid those that do not and  
•balance the sometimes competing demands of our various stakeholders, meet our customer obligations, satisfy regulatory
requirements and optimize shareholder returns relative to the risks we take. 

        We
use a variety of methods to help us identify, monitor, measure, communicate and manage our risks within established limits and risk tolerances. 
        Our
Board of Directors and senior management are knowledgeable of and accountable for key risks. Our Board meets at least quarterly and regularly hears reports from the Chief Executive
Officer, the business unit Presidents, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Investment Officer. The Board has several committees, which include the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, the
Human Resources Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee that meet at least quarterly and address various aspects of risks. In addition, the Board of Directors and senior management
receive quarterly updates from the Chief Risk Officer. 
        We
also have several senior management groups and committees that meet on a regular and frequent basis to discuss various issues and risks associated with our businesses. These
committees encompass numerous functions such as discussing and setting business unit and company strategy, reviewing and approving potential uses of corporate capital and setting investment policy and
reviewing its implementation. Many key members of senior management serve on multiple committees, allowing them to provide oversight and take a holistic view of our key risks. 
        Our
enterprise risk management program is executed via a federated model. The Chief Risk Officer and supporting staff are independent of the business units, and work closely with the
business units, providing oversight and integration of all risk management activities. Each business unit has its own risk committee that in most cases includes executive level corporate management
and is responsible for identifying, monitoring, measuring and managing its risks, as well as monitoring how its risks impact the enterprise's overall risk exposure. The business units provide risk
reports to the Chief Risk Officer quarterly with current risk management information. 
        We
have established risk tolerances from an overall corporate perspective as well as for specific types of risks. All potentially significant actions are considered in terms of the
possible impact on our risk profile, including the capital required, the impact on near term and long-term earnings and the ability to meet our targets with respect to return on equity, liquidity,
debt/capital, cash coverage and other ratios and metrics. We monitor a variety of risk metrics on an ongoing basis and make any necessary adjustments to help us stay within our established risk
tolerances. We have developed a Business Continuity Management Program that identifies critical business functions and includes plans for their protection and recovery in the event of a disaster or
other business interruption. We continually monitor emerging risks, and we regularly build upon our already strong risk management practices to incorporate updated modeling tools, processes and
metrics, which we actively use to better understand and manage our business. We monitor three key risk metrics as part of our enterprise risk management
framework:


•Earnings at Risk, which is a measure of the potential volatility in operating earnings and net income relative to baseline
operating earnings and net income under relatively adverse business and economic conditions. 
•Embedded Value at Risk, which is a measure of the potential volatility in embedded value relative to baseline embedded
value under relatively adverse business and economic conditions. 
•Internal Capital Adequacy Ratio, which represents the relationship of actual assets to our Economic Total Asset
Requirement ("ECTAR"). ECTAR signifies the total assets required to ensure that we can meet all of our obligations with a high degree of confidence and is the sum of Economic Reserves and Economic
Capital. 

 Employees  
        As of December 31, 2011, we had 13,527 employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements
governing employment with us. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory. 
16




 











Table of Contents 
 Internet Website  
        Our Internet website can be found at www.principal.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website, access to
our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available free of
charge on our Internet website is our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines and charters for the Audit, Finance, Human Resources and Nominating and Governance committees
of our Board of Directors. Also see Item 10. "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance."  
 
    Item 1A.    Risk Factors     
        This section provides an overview of the risks that may impact our performance in the future. 
 Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, as well as our access to capital and cost of capital.  
        Since mid-2007, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility, uncertainty and disruption. Our results of
operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by continued volatility, uncertainty and disruption in the capital and credit markets. 
        We
maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term
benefit and expense payment obligations. However, withdrawal and surrender levels may differ from anticipated levels for a variety of reasons, such as changes in economic conditions or changes in our
claims paying ability and financial strength ratings. For additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate risk and the impact of a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, see
"— Changes in interest rates or credit spreads may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net income can vary from period-to-period"
and "— A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors, impact
existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition." In the event our current internal sources of liquidity do not
satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The availability of
additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the
financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as customers' or lenders' perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be
impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. 
        Disruptions,
uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations.
Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; fund redemption requests on insurance or other financial
products; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue
shorter tenor securities than we prefer, utilize available internal resources or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial
flexibility and liquidity. 
        For
further discussion on liquidity risk management, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Liquidity and Capital Resources." 
 Continued difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  
        Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the
U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Recently, concerns over the slow economic recovery, level of U.S. national debt and structural deficits, European sovereign debt crisis, the U.S. mortgage market,
inflation levels, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with
volatile oil prices, reduced business and consumer confidence and continued high unemployment, have negatively impacted the U.S. economy. Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants
were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these concerns expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and asset-backed and other fixed income
securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets, generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and
sectors. Although liquidity has improved, the market for fixed income instruments has continued to experience some price volatility, credit downgrade events and elevated probabilities of default. Our
AUM and revenues may decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur
significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. 
        Factors
such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, investor and consumer confidence and inflation levels all
affect the business and economic environment 
17



 
Table of Contents
and,
ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment,
negative investor sentiment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of
claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. In addition, reductions in employment levels
of our existing employer customers may result in a reduction in membership levels and premium income for our specialty benefits products. Participants within the retirement plans for which we provide
administrative services may elect to reduce or stop their payroll deferrals to these plans, which would reduce AUM and revenues. In addition, reductions in employment levels may result in a
decline in employee deposits into retirement plans. Adverse changes in the economy could affect net income negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. 
 Continued volatility or further declines in the equity markets could reduce our AUM and may result in investors withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rates of
investment, all of which could reduce our revenues and net income.  
        Domestic and international equity markets experienced severe declines and heightened volatility in 2008 and early 2009. Although equity
markets have been recovering, equity values still remain below the values achieved in 2007. Because the revenues of our asset management and accumulation businesses are, to a large extent, based on
the value of AUM, a decline in domestic and global equity markets will decrease our revenues. Turmoil in these markets could lead investors to withdraw from these markets, decrease their rates of
investment or refrain from making new investments, which may reduce our net income, revenues and AUM. 
        For
further discussion on equity risk management, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Equity Risk." 
 Changes in interest rates or credit spreads may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net income can vary from
period-to-period.  
        We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices,
real estate values, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors
outside our control. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates will
increase unrealized losses in our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain segments of our life insurance and annuities
businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us
to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain segments of our life insurance businesses, sustained declines in long-term
interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance
liabilities, creating asset and liability duration mismatches. 
        Our
investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from
governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would increase unrealized losses in our
investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our
investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be
able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. 
        Our
exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price variability and reinvestment risk associated with changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads would increase
unrealized losses in the investment portfolio, would increase losses associated with credit-based derivatives we have sold that do not qualify or have not been designated for hedge accounting where we
assume credit exposure and, if issuer credit spreads increase as a result of fundamental credit deterioration, would likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments. Credit spread tightening
will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities. Credit spread tightening may also cause an increase in the reported value of certain liabilities that are valued
using a discount rate that reflects our own credit spread. In addition, market volatility may make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations
may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes from market volatility, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
condition. Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the U.S. residential and commercial real estate market and increased mortgage delinquencies, investor anxiety over the U.S. economy,
rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monolines, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge
funds and a serious dislocation in the inter-bank market. If significant, continued volatility, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, a lack of pricing transparency,
market liquidity, declines in equity prices, declines in inflation-adjusted investments and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem,
could continue to have a material adverse effect 
18



 
Table of Contents
on
our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses, impairments and changes in unrealized positions. 
 Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and the investment returns credited to customers, which could reduce
our sales, revenues, AUM and net income.  

 An increase in defaults or write-downs on our fixed maturities portfolio may reduce our profitability.  

        We are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed maturities we own will default on principal and interest payments,
particularly if a major downturn in economic activity occurs. As of December 31, 2011, our U.S. investment operations held $46.7 billion of fixed maturities, or 77% of total U.S.
invested assets, of which approximately 7.3% were below investment grade, including $524.4 million, or 1.12% of our total fixed maturities which we classified as either "problem," "potential
problem" or "restructured." See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — U.S.
Investment Operations — Fixed Maturities." 
        Our
U.S. fixed maturities portfolio includes securities collateralized by residential and commercial mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2011, our U.S. investment operations held
$4.8 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities, of which $3.4 billion are Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association or Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation pass-through securities, and $3.4 billion of commercial mortgage-backed securities, which represent in combination 17% of our total fixed maturities portfolio. For
residential mortgage-backed securities, prepayment speeds, changes in mortgage delinquency or recovery rates, credit rating changes by rating agencies, change in property values underlying the loans
and the quality of service provided by service providers on securities in our portfolios could lead to write-downs on these securities. For commercial mortgage-backed securities, changes in mortgage
delinquency or default rates, interest rate movements, credit quality and vintage of the underlying loans, changes in property values underlying the loans and credit rating changes by rating agencies
could result in write-downs of those securities. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Investments — U.S. Investment Operations — Fixed Maturities." 
        As
of December 31, 2011, the international investment operations of our fully consolidated subsidiaries held $3.3 billion of fixed maturities, or 63%, of total
international invested assets, of which 15% are government bonds. Some non-government bonds have been rated on the basis of the issuer's country credit rating. However, the ratings relationship
between national ratings and global ratings is not linear with the U.S. The starting point for national ratings differs by country, which makes the assessment of credit quality more difficult. See
Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — International Investment Operations." An
increase in defaults on our fixed maturities portfolio could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. 

 An increased rate of delinquency and defaults on our commercial mortgage loans, especially those with amortizing balloon payments, may adversely affect our profitability.  

        Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio faces both delinquency and default risk. Commercial mortgage loans of $9.4 billion
represented 14% of our total invested assets as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, there were no loans that were in the process of foreclosure. The performance of our
commercial mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. An increase in the delinquency rate of,
and defaults under, our commercial mortgage loan portfolio could harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, approximately $8.0 billion, or 85%, of our commercial mortgage loans before valuation allowance had amortizing balloon payment maturities. A
balloon maturity is a loan with larger dollar amounts of payments becoming due in the later years of the loan. The default rate on commercial mortgage loans with balloon payment maturities has
historically been higher than for commercial mortgage loans with standard repayment schedules. Since most of the principal is repaid at maturity, the amount of loss on a default is generally greater
than on other commercial mortgage loans. An increase in defaults on such loans as a result of the foregoing factors could harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability. 

 We may have difficulty selling our privately placed fixed maturities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments because they are less liquid than our publicly
traded fixed maturities.  

        We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed maturities, commercial mortgage loans and real
estate investments. These asset classes represented approximately 38% of the value of our invested assets as of December 31, 2011. 
        If
we require significant amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would
have been able to realize or both. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and, at times, our high quality, generally
liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest possible price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will
be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. 
19



 
Table of Contents

 The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  

        We use derivative instruments to hedge various risks we face in our businesses. See Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk." We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, interest rate collars, swaptions, futures, currency swaps, currency forwards, credit
default swaps, options and total return swaps, with a number of counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other
investment funds and other institutions. For transactions where we are in-the-money, we are exposed to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. We limit our exposure to credit risk by
establishing collateral agreements with nominal thresholds for a large majority of our counterparties. However, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or
is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. With regards to our derivative exposure, we have over-collateralization requirements on the
portion of collateral we hold, based on the riskiness of the assets posted as collateral. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments and equity
investments. Such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 

 Our requirements to post collateral or make payments related to declines in market value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty
credit risk.  

        Many of our derivative transactions with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are
required to post collateral. The amount of collateral we may be required to post under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In
addition, under the terms of some of our transactions we may be required to make payment to our counterparties related to any decline in the market value of the specified assets. Such payments could
have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Furthermore, with respect to any such payments, we will have unsecured risk to the counterparty as these amounts are not required to be segregated from the
counterparty's other funds, are not held in a third-party custodial account, and are not required to be paid to us by the counterparty until the termination of the transaction. 

 Environmental liability exposure may result from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments.  

        Liability under environmental protection laws resulting from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments may
harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. Under the laws of several states, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of
cleanup. In some states, this kind of lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against the property, which would impair our ability to foreclose on that property should the related loan
be in default. In addition, under the laws of some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, we may be liable for costs of addressing
releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances that require remedy at a property securing a mortgage loan held by us, if our agents or employees have become sufficiently involved in the
hazardous waste aspects of the operations of the related obligor on that loan, regardless of whether or not the environmental damage or threat was caused by the obligor. We also may face this
liability after foreclosing on a property securing a mortgage loan held by us. This may harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability. 

 Regional concentration of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio in California may subject us to economic downturns or losses attributable to earthquakes in that state.  

        Commercial mortgage lending in the state of California accounted for 22%, or $2.1 billion, of our commercial mortgage loan
portfolio as of December 31, 2011. Due to this concentration of commercial mortgage loans in California, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of an economic downturn in
California as well as to catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. While we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage
loans, we do take into account property specific engineering reports, construction type and geographical concentration by fault lines in our investment underwriting guidelines. If economic
conditions in California do not improve or continue to deteriorate or catastrophes occur, we may in the future experience delinquencies or defaults on the portion of our commercial mortgage loan
portfolio located in California, which may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. 
 Our valuation of fixed maturities and equity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could
result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  
        Fixed maturities and equity securities reported at fair value on our consolidated statements of financial position represented the
majority of our total cash and invested assets. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels. The level in the fair value
hierarchy is based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability's classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of
significant input to its valuation. 


•Level 1: Fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 

20



 
Table of Contents


•Level 2: Fair values are based on inputs other than quoted prices within Level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. 
•Level 3: Fair values are based on at least one significant unobservable input for the asset or liability. 

        Excluding
separate account assets as of December 31, 2011, 3%, 96% and 1% of our net assets and liabilities reported at fair value represented Level 1, Level 2 and
Level 3, respectively. Our Level 1 assets and liabilities primarily include exchange traded equity securities, mutual funds and U.S. Treasury bonds. Our Level 2 assets and
liabilities primarily include fixed maturities (including public and private bonds), equity securities, over-the-counter derivatives and other investments for which public quotations are not available
but that are priced by third-party pricing services or internal models using substantially all observable inputs. Our Level 3 assets and liabilities include certain fixed maturities, private
equity securities, commercial mortgage loan investments and obligations of consolidated variable interest entities for which the fair value option was elected, complex derivatives and embedded
derivatives. Level 3 securities contain at least one significant unobservable market input and as a result considerable judgment may be used in determining the fair values. These fair values
are generally obtained through the use of valuation models or methodologies using at least one significant unobservable input or broker quotes. Prices provided by independent pricing services or
independent broker quotes that are used in the determination of fair value can vary for a particular security. 
        For
additional information on our valuation methodology, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair
Value Measurements." 
        During
periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain
of our securities, for example collateralized mortgage obligations and collateralized debt obligations, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be
certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to
Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as
valuation methods that require greater estimation, which could result in values that are different from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing credit and
equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary
significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 
 The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments requires estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations
and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.  
        The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation
and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.
There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need
to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. 
        Additionally,
our management considers a wide range of factors about the instrument issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value
of the instrument and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future
earnings potential. For further information regarding our impairment methodology, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Investments — U.S. Investment Operations — Fixed Maturities." 
 Gross unrealized losses may be realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in our net income.  
        Fixed maturities that are classified as available-for-sale ("AFS") are reported on the consolidated statements of financial position at
fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on AFS securities are recognized as a component of equity and are, therefore, excluded from net income. Our U.S. investment operations held gross unrealized
losses on fixed maturities of $1.5 billion pre-tax as of December 31, 2011, and the component of gross unrealized losses for securities trading down 20% or more for over six months was
approximately $0.7 billion pre-tax. The accumulated change in fair value of the AFS securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the asset or in the
event that the decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary (referred to as an other-than-temporary impairment). Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse impact on
our net income in a particular quarter or annual period. 
 Competition from companies that may have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance may impair our ability to
retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability.  
        We believe that our ability to compete is based on a number of factors including scale, service, product features, price, investment
performance, commission structure, distribution capacity, financial strength ratings and name 
21



 
Table of Contents
recognition.
We compete with a large number of financial services companies such as banks, mutual funds, broker-dealers, insurers and asset managers, many of which have advantages over us in one or
more of the above competitive factors. 
        Each
of our segments faces strong competition. The primary competitors for our Retirement and Investor Services and Principal Global Investors segments are asset managers, banks,
broker-dealers and insurers. Our ability to increase and retain AUM is directly related to the performance of our investments as measured against market averages and the performance of our
competitors. Even when securities prices are generally rising, performance can be affected by investment styles. Also, there is a risk that we may not be able to attract and retain the top talent
needed to compete in our industry. 
        Competition
for our Principal International segment comes primarily from local financial services firms and other international companies operating on a stand-alone basis or in
partnership with local firms. 
        Our
U.S. Insurance Solutions segment competes with insurers. 
        National
banks, with their large existing customer bases, may increasingly compete with insurers as a result of court rulings allowing national banks to sell annuity products in some
circumstances, and as a result of legislation removing restrictions on bank affiliations with insurers. Specifically, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 permits mergers that combine commercial banks,
insurers and securities firms under one holding company. These developments may increase competition, in particular for our asset management and accumulation businesses, by substantially increasing
the number, size and financial strength of potential competitors who may be able to offer, due to economies of scale, more competitive pricing than we can. 
        In
response to current market conditions, the U.S. and foreign governments in the markets we serve have taken actions, including but not limited to, direct government control or
investment in certain entities. We may find that these actions create, among other things, unforeseen competitive advantages for our competitors due to explicit or implied support from the government. 
 A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors,
impact existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.  
        A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's Investors Services and Standard & Poor's publish financial strength ratings on U.S. life
insurance companies that are indicators of an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. These rating agencies also assign credit ratings on non-life insurance
entities, such as PFG and Principal Financial Services, Inc. ("PFS"). Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner, and are
important factors in overall funding profile and ability to access external capital. 
        Ratings
are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and maintaining public confidence in products being offered. A ratings downgrade, or the
potential for such a downgrade, could, among other things:


•materially increase the number of surrenders for all or a portion of the net cash values by the owners of policies,
contracts and general account GICs we have issued, and materially increase the number of withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their policies;  
•result in the termination of our relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of
our products and services; 
•reduce new sales, particularly with respect to general account GICs and funding agreements purchased by pension plans and
other institutions; 
•cause some of our existing liabilities to be subject to acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or
creation of additional financial obligations and 
•increase our cost of capital and limit our access to the capital markets. 

        Any
of these consequences could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. 
 Our efforts to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on our profitability and retained earnings may not be effective.  
        We attempt to significantly reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on the profitability and retained earnings of our asset
accumulation and insurance operations. We accomplish this reduction primarily by managing the duration of our assets relative to the duration of our liabilities. During a period of rising interest
rates, policy surrenders, withdrawals and requests for policy loans may increase as customers seek to achieve higher returns. Despite our efforts to reduce the impact of rising interest rates, we may
be required to sell assets to raise the cash necessary to respond to such surrenders, withdrawals and loans, thereby realizing capital losses on the assets sold. Because volatile interest rates and
credit spreads often make it more difficult to sell certain fixed income securities, there is also a risk that we will find it difficult to raise the cash necessary to fund a very large amount of
withdrawal activity. An increase in policy surrenders and withdrawals may also require us to accelerate amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") relating to these contracts, which
would further reduce our profitability. 
22



 
Table of Contents
        During
periods of declining interest rates, borrowers may prepay or redeem mortgages and bonds that we own, which would force us to reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. For
some of our products, such as GICs and funding agreements, we are unable to lower the rate we credit to customers in response to the lower return we will earn on our investments. In addition, it may
be more difficult for us to maintain our desired spread between the investment income we earn and the interest we credit to our customers during periods of declining interest rates, thereby reducing
our profitability. Interest rates are currently at historically low levels. If interests rates were to remain low over a sustained period of time, this would put additional pressure on our spreads,
potentially resulting in unlocking of our DPAC asset and increases in reserves. 
        For
further discussion on interest rate risk management, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk." 
 If we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives and develop new distribution sources, sales of our products and services may be reduced.  
        We distribute our asset accumulation, asset management and life and specialty benefit insurance products and services through a variety
of distribution channels, including our own internal sales representatives, independent brokers, banks, broker-dealers and other third-party marketing organizations. We must attract and retain sales
representatives to sell our products. Strong competition exists among financial services companies for efficient sales representatives. We compete with other financial services companies for
sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient sales representatives
to sell our products, our ability to compete and revenues from new sales would suffer. 
 Our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that could reduce our profitability in those businesses.  
        Our international businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision from central and/or local governmental authorities
in each country in which we operate. New interpretations of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations may harm our international businesses and reduce our
profitability in those businesses. For example, Mexican legislation requires that all employees contribute to a mandatory pension fund. When employees do not select a pension provider
("AFORE"), they are assigned to an AFORE by the Mexican regulator. Numerous AFOREs, including Principal AFORE, have been assigned such customers. The Mexican regulator has the ability and intent to
re-assign these customers based on various investment criteria. If, and to the extent, existing customers would be reassigned, it would have a negative impact on our revenues and earnings. 
        Our
international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our operations in the U.S. We face the risk of discriminatory regulation,
nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they
operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Some of our international businesses are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging or potentially volatile
markets. In addition, we rely on local staff, including local sales forces, in these countries where there is a risk that we may encounter labor problems with local staff, especially in countries
where workers' associations and trade unions are strong. If our business model, including in some cases a joint venture model, is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our
investment in that country. 
 We may face losses if our actual experience differs significantly from our pricing and reserving assumptions.  
        Our profitability depends significantly upon the extent to which our actual experience is consistent with the assumptions used in
setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future insurance and annuity policy benefits and claims. The premiums that we charge and the liabilities that we hold for future policy
benefits are based on assumptions reflecting a number of factors, including the amount of premiums that we will receive in the future, rate of return on assets we purchase with premiums received,
expected claims, mortality, morbidity, expenses and persistency, which is the measurement of the percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year. However, due to the nature of
the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of the liabilities for unpaid policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts we will
ultimately pay to settle these liabilities. As a result, we may experience volatility in the level of our profitability and our reserves from period-to-period, particularly for our health and
disability insurance products. To the extent that actual experience is less favorable than our underlying assumptions, we could be required to increase our liabilities, which may harm our financial
strength and reduce our profitability. 
        For
example, if mortality rates are higher than our pricing assumptions, we will be required to make greater claims payments on our life insurance policies than we had projected.
However, this risk may be partially offset by our payout annuity business, where an increase in mortality rates will result in a decrease in benefit payments. Our use of third party reinsurance also
helps to mitigate this risk. Our results of operations may also be adversely impacted by an increase in morbidity rates. 
        Our
results of operations may also be adversely impacted if our actual investment earnings differ from our pricing and reserve assumptions. Changes in economic conditions may lead to
changes in market interest rates or changes in our 
23



 
Table of Contents
investment
strategies, either of which could cause our actual investment earnings to differ from our pricing and reserve assumptions. 
        For
additional information on our insurance reserves, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Insurance Reserves." 
 Our ability to pay stockholder dividends and meet our obligations may be constrained by the limitations on dividends Iowa insurance laws impose on Principal Life.  
        We are an insurance holding company whose assets include all of the outstanding shares of the common stock of Principal Life and other
subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and meet our obligations, including paying operating expenses and any debt service, depends upon the receipt of dividends from Principal
Life. Iowa insurance laws impose limitations on the ability of Principal Life to pay dividends to us. Any inability of Principal Life to pay dividends to us in the future may cause us to be
unable to pay dividends to our stockholders and meet our other obligations. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of regulatory restrictions on Principal Life's ability to pay us dividends. 
 The pattern of amortizing our DPAC and other actuarial balances on our universal life-type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment
contracts may change, impacting both the level of the asset and the timing of our net income.  
        Amortization of the DPAC asset depends on the actual and expected profits generated by the lines of business that incurred the
expenses. Expected profits are dependent on assumptions regarding a number of factors including investment returns, benefit payments, expenses, mortality and policy lapse. Due to the uncertainty
associated with establishing these assumptions, we cannot, with precision, determine the exact pattern of profit emergence. As a result, amortization of DPAC will vary from period-to-period. To the
extent that actual experience emerges less favorably than expected, or our expectation for future profits decreases, the DPAC asset may be reduced, reducing our profitability in the current period. 
        For
additional information, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates — Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances." 
 We may need to fund deficiencies in our Closed Block assets.  
        In connection with its conversion in 1998 into a stock life insurance company, Principal Life established an accounting mechanism,
known as a "Closed Block" for the benefit of participating ordinary life insurance policies that had a dividend scale in force on July 1, 1998. Dividend scales are the actuarial formulas used
by life insurance companies to determine amounts payable as dividends on participating policies based on experience factors relating to, among other things, investment results, mortality, lapse rates,
expenses, premium taxes and policy
loan interest and utilization rates. The Closed Block was designed to provide reasonable assurance to policyholders included in the Closed Block that, after the conversion, assets would be available
to maintain the aggregate dividend scales in effect for 1997 if the experience underlying such scales were to continue. 
        We
allocated assets to the Closed Block as of July 1, 1998, in an amount such that we expected their cash flows, together with anticipated revenues from the policies in the Closed
Block, to be sufficient to support the Closed Block business, including payment of claims, certain direct expenses, charges and taxes and to provide for the continuation of aggregate dividend scales
in accordance with the 1997 policy dividend scales if the experience underlying such scales continued, and to allow for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changed. We bear the
costs of administrative expenses associated with Closed Block policies and, accordingly, these costs were not funded as part of the assets allocated to the Closed Block. Any increase in such costs in
the future will be borne by us. As of December 31, 2011, Closed Block assets and liabilities were $4,453.6 million and $5,172.4 million, respectively. 
        We
will continue to pay guaranteed benefits under the policies included in the Closed Block, in accordance with their terms. The Closed Block assets, cash flows generated by the Closed
Block assets and anticipated revenues from policies included in the Closed Block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not sufficient, we must
fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose for business reasons to support dividend payments on policies in the Closed Block with our general account funds. 
        The
Closed Block assets, cash flows generated by the Closed Block assets and anticipated revenues from policies in the Closed Block will benefit only the holders of those policies. In
addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time we funded the Closed Block, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the Closed Block may
be greater than they would have been in the absence of a Closed Block. Any excess net income will be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders but will not be available to our
stockholders. 
24



 
Table of Contents
 A pandemic, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could adversely affect our net income.  
        Our mortality and morbidity experience could be adversely impacted by a catastrophic event. In addition, a severe catastrophic event
may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. The resulting macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our cash flows, as
well as the value and liquidity of our invested assets. We may also experience operational disruptions if our employees are unable or unwilling to come to work due to a pandemic or other catastrophe.
We have developed extensive contingency plans to minimize the risk of operational disruptions. In addition, our use of reinsurance reduces our exposure to adverse mortality experience. Despite these
measures, we may still be exposed to losses in the event of a pandemic, terrorist attack or other catastrophe. 
 Our reinsurers could default on their obligations or increase their rates, which could adversely impact our net income and profitability.  
        We cede life and health insurance to other insurance companies through reinsurance. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1,
Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." However, we remain liable to the policyholder, even if the reinsurer defaults on its obligations with respect to the ceded business. If a
reinsurer fails to meet its obligations, we will be forced to cover the claims on the reinsured policies. In addition, a reinsurer insolvency may cause us to lose our reserve credits on the ceded
business, in which case we would be required to establish additional reserves. 
        The
premium rates that we charge are based, in part, on the assumption that reinsurance will be available at a certain cost. Some of our reinsurance contracts contain provisions which
limit the reinsurer's ability to increase rates on in-force business; however, some do not. If a reinsurer raises the rates that it charges on a block of in-force business, our
profitability may be negatively impacted if we are not able to pass the increased costs on to the customer. If reinsurers raise the rates that they charge on new business, we may be forced to raise
the premiums that we charge, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. 
        To
mitigate the risks associated with the use of reinsurance, we carefully select our reinsurers, and we monitor their ratings and financial condition on a regular basis. We also spread
our business among several reinsurers, in order to diversify our risk exposure. 
 We face risks arising from acquisitions of businesses.  
        We have engaged in acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. We face a number of risks
arising from acquisition transactions, including difficulties in integrating the acquired business into our operations, difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and intermediaries,
difficulties in retaining the existing customers of the acquired entity, unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the acquired business and unfavorable market conditions that could
negatively impact our growth expectations for the acquired business. These risks may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from acquisitions and could result in the impairment of
goodwill and/or intangible assets recognized at the time of acquisition. 
        For
additional information on our goodwill and other intangible assets, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." 
 Changes in laws, regulations or accounting standards may reduce our profitability.  

 Changes in regulations may reduce our profitability.  

        Our insurance business is subject to comprehensive state regulation and supervision throughout the U.S. and in the international
markets in which we operate. We are also impacted by federal legislation and administrative policies in areas such as employee benefit plan regulation, financial services regulations and federal
taxation. The primary purpose of state regulation of the insurance business is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. The laws of the various states establish insurance departments with broad
powers to regulate such matters as:


•licensing companies to transact business, 
•licensing agents, 
•admitting statutory assets, 
•mandating a number of insurance benefits, 
•regulating premium rates, 
•approving policy forms, 
•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, 
•establishing statutory reserve requirements and solvency standards, 

25



 
Table of Contents


•fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum rates for accumulation of surrender values,  
•restricting various transactions between affiliates and 
•regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. 

        State
insurance regulators, federal regulators and the NAIC continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, and may impose changes in the future. 
        State
insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities we have established for these potential assessments may not be adequate. 
        Federal
legislation and administrative policies in areas such as employee benefit plan regulation, financial services regulation and federal taxation can reduce our profitability. For
example, the U.S. Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation relating to changes in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to permit application of state law remedies, such
as consequential and punitive damages, in lawsuits for wrongful denial of benefits, which, if adopted, could increase our liability for damages in future litigation. Additionally, new interpretations
of existing laws and the passage of new legislation may harm our ability to sell new policies and increase our claims exposure on policies we issued previously. In addition, reductions in contribution
levels to defined contribution plans may decrease our profitability. 

 Changes in tax laws could increase our tax costs and reduce sales of our insurance, annuity and investment products.  

        Current federal income tax laws generally permit the tax-deferred accumulation of earnings on the premiums paid by the holders of
annuities and life insurance products. Taxes, if any, are payable on income attributable to a distribution under the contract for the year in which the distribution is made. The U.S. Congress has,
from time to time, considered legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of such deferral of taxation on the accretion of value within life insurance and nonqualified annuity contracts.
Enactment of this legislation, including a simplified "flat tax" income structure with an exemption from taxation for investment income, could result in fewer sales of our insurance, annuity and
investment products. 
        In
addition, we benefit from certain tax items, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits) and
insurance reserve deductions. From time to time, the U.S. Congress, as well as foreign, state and local governments, considers legislation that could reduce or eliminate the benefits associated with
these tax items. If such legislation is adopted, our profitability could be negatively impacted. We continue to evaluate the impact that potential tax reform, which lacks sufficient detail and
is relatively uncertain, may have on our future results of operations and financial condition. 

 Repeal or modification of the federal estate tax could reduce our revenues.  

        The U.S. Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation modifying the federal estate tax regime. One such piece of legislation
is the Tax Reform Act of 2010, which became law on December 17, 2010. Among its many provisions were modifications to the estate tax for 2010, 2011 and 2012. These changes, while generally
beneficial to taxpayers, are temporary in nature. 
        If
these favorable estate tax modifications are continued beyond 2012, or if the federal estate tax is repealed, then potentially there could be some level of contraction in the estate
planning market. It is possible that some segment of this existing business would be terminated or sold to investor groups. On the other hand, a portion of this coverage would likely be retained to
pay other expenses associated with death such as state estate/inheritance taxes, capital gains taxes, or income taxes. 
        We
currently have approximately $32.7 billion of estate tax-related life insurance from nearly 20,700 policies in force as of December 31, 2011. This block of policies
accounts for approximately $290.0 million of annual recurring life insurance premium and also represents over $1.9 billion of policy cash value. 
        Based
on an average of the last three years of estimated new sales of estate-tax related products, we have issued approximately 1,700 policies annually, representing $34.5 million
of annual premium and nearly $4.9 billion of life insurance coverage. 

 Changes in federal, state and foreign securities laws may reduce our profitability.  

        Our asset management and accumulation and life insurance businesses are subject to various levels of regulation under federal, state
and foreign securities laws. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory or brokerage clients and generally grant
supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. The downturn in the financial
markets and resulting market-wide losses have caused legislative and regulatory bodies to consider various changes to existing securities laws and the legal framework governing the financial 
26



 
Table of Contents
industry.
Changes to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could significantly increase our compliance costs and reduce our profitability. 

 Financial services regulatory reform may reduce our profitability, impact how we do business or limit our ability to engage in certain capital expenditures.  

        On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted and signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act makes extensive changes to the laws
regulating financial services firms and requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementation rules and regulations. The federal agencies were given significant discretion in
drafting the implementation rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known for many months or years. In addition, the
legislation mandates multiple studies and reports for Congress, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. 
        In
July 2011, we became subject to oversight from the Federal Reserve including various capital and liquidity requirements due to our wholly-owned Savings & Loan subsidiary. It is
possible that we could be labeled as "Systemically Important" by the Financial Stability Oversight Council which brings with it even more oversight and
prudential standards from the Federal Reserve. While the initial regulations indicate that we will not fall within the definition of a "Major Swap Participant" ("MSP"), it is possible that change in
the final rules could alter this interpretation. Designation as an MSP will result in more oversight of derivative transactions under the separate jurisdictions of the SEC and the Commodities Futures
Trading Commission. This includes swaps traded through either regulated exchanges or approved clearinghouses, and require additional collateral to support derivatives transactions. 
        In
addition, we are subject to minimum capital requirements as a result of this regulatory oversight and those requirements may change based on future legislation and/or the adoption of
Basel III capital requirements by the U.S. These minimum capital requirements and the qualitative oversight of the Federal Reserve may limit our ability to pay stockholder dividends, conduct a merger
or acquisition, or engage in other activities, including share repurchases. 
        The
changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be finalized implementation rules and regulations may lower the profitability of our business activities, require changes to
certain of our business practices or otherwise adversely affect our business. 

 Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our reported profitability and financial ratios.  

        Accounting standards are subject to change and can negatively impact our reported profitability. See Item 8. "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." In addition to recently issued accounting
guidance, the U.S. and international standard setters have a full agenda of topics they plan to review, any of which have the potential to negatively impact our reported profitability and financial
ratios. The results for past accounting periods are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future accounting period. 
 We may be unable to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline 38, potentially resulting in a negative impact to our capital position and/or
a reduction in sales of term and universal life insurance products.  
        The NAIC Model Regulation entitled "Valuation of Life Insurance Policies," commonly known as "Regulation XXX", establishes
statutory reserve requirements for term life insurance policies and universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. Actuarial Guideline 38 ("AG38") clarifies the application of
Regulation XXX with respect to certain universal life insurance products with secondary guarantees. The application of Regulation XXX and AG38 involve numerous interpretations. It is
possible that our interpretation of these and other actuarial guidelines and regulations may differ from the interpretations of state regulators. Such differences of interpretation may lead to us
having to increase the statutory reserves that we hold for certain products. 
        In
addition, we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the capital impact of Regulation XXX and AG38 on our term and universal life insurance
business. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to implement these actions for future sales of term and universal life insurance business. If we are unable to mitigate the
impact of Regulation XXX and AG38 on future sales, additional capital will be required to support those sales, and we may be required to increase prices and/or reduce sales of our term and
universal life insurance products. 
 A computer system failure or security breach could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely impact our profitability.  
        We rely on computer systems to conduct business, including customer service, marketing and sales activities, customer relationship
management and producing financial statements. While we have policies, procedures, automation and backup plans designed to prevent or limit the effect of failure, our computer systems may be
vulnerable to disruptions or breaches as the result of natural disasters, man-made disasters, criminal activity, pandemics, or other events beyond our control. The failure of our computer systems for
any reason could disrupt our operations, result in the loss of customer business and adversely impact our profitability. 
27



 
Table of Contents
        We
retain confidential information on our computer systems, including customer information and proprietary business information. Any compromise of the security of our computer systems
that results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage our reputation, expose us to litigation, increase regulatory scrutiny and require us to incur significant
technical, legal and other expenses. 
 Results of litigation and regulatory investigations may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability.  
        We are a plaintiff or defendant in actions arising out of our business operations. We are, from time to time, also involved in various
governmental, regulatory and administrative proceedings and inquiries. 
        We
have received regulatory inquiries from certain state insurance regulators and other officials relating to compliance with unclaimed property laws and the use of data available on the
U.S. Social Security Administration's Death Master File (or a similar database) to identify instances where benefits under life insurance policies, annuities and retained asset accounts are payable.
It is possible that other jurisdictions may pursue similar inquiries and that such inquiries may result in payments to beneficiaries, escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws and changes
to procedures for the identification and escheatment of abandoned property. 
        These
factors may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability. For further discussion on litigation and regulatory investigation risk, see Item 8. "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications" under the caption, "Litigation and Regulatory
Contingencies." 
 From time to time we may become subject to tax audits, tax litigation or similar proceedings, and as a result we may owe additional taxes, interest and penalties in amounts
that may be material.  
        We are subject to income taxes in the United States as well as many other jurisdictions. In determining our provisions for income taxes
and our accounting for tax-related matters in general, we are required to exercise judgment. We regularly make estimates where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The final
determination of any tax audit, appeal of the decision of a taxing authority, tax litigation or similar proceedings may be materially different from that reflected in our historical financial
statements. The assessment of additional taxes, interest and penalties could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition. 
 Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our profitability.  
        Principal International generally writes policies denominated in various local currencies and invests the premiums and deposits in
local currencies. Although investing in local currencies limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these
results into our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion on foreign currency exchange risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk — Foreign Currency Risk." 
 Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that some stockholders might consider in
their best interests.  
        State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent, or render more difficult a takeover
attempt that some stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common
stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if
they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 
        State
laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate
management entrenchment, which may delay, defer or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. 
        The
following provisions, included in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, may also have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt
that some stockholders might consider in their best interests. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws:


•permit our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock;  
•divide our Board of Directors into three classes; 
•limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors; 
•prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on our Board of Directors; 
•prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; 
•impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder
meetings and 

28



 
Table of Contents


•require the approval by the holders of at least 75% of our outstanding common stock for the amendment of our
by-laws and provisions of our certificate of incorporation governing:  


•the classified board,   
•the director's discretion in determining what he or she reasonably believes to be in the best interests of Principal
Financial Group, Inc.,   
•the liability of directors and   
•the prohibition on stockholder actions by written consent. 


        In
addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may limit the ability of an "interested stockholder" to engage in business combinations with us.
An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. 
 Our financial results may be adversely impacted by global climate changes.  
        Atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases have increased dramatically since the industrial revolution,
resulting in a gradual increase in global average temperatures and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. These trends are expected to continue in the future and have the
potential to impact nearly all sectors of the economy to varying degrees. Our initial research indicates that climate change does not pose an imminent or significant threat to our operations or
business, but we will continue to monitor new developments in the future. 
        Potential
impacts may include the following:


•Changes in temperatures and air quality may adversely impact our mortality and morbidity rates. For example, increases in
the level of pollution and airborne allergens may cause an increase in upper respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, leading to increased claims in our insurance businesses. However, the risk of
increased mortality on our life insurance business may be partly offset by our payout annuity business, where an increase in mortality results in a decrease in benefit payments.  
•Climate change may impact asset prices, as well as general economic conditions. For example, rising sea levels may lead to
decreases in real estate values in coastal areas. Additionally, government policies to slow climate change (e.g., setting limits on carbon emissions) may have an adverse impact on sectors such as
utilities, transportation and manufacturing. Changes in asset prices may impact the value of our fixed income, real estate and commercial mortgage investments. We manage our investment risks by
maintaining a well-diversified portfolio, both geographically and by sector. We also monitor our investments on an ongoing basis, allowing us to adjust our exposure to sectors and/or geographical
areas that face severe risks due to climate change. 
•A natural disaster that affects one of our office locations could disrupt our operations and pose a threat to the safety
of our employees. However, we have extensive Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery planning programs in place to help mitigate this risk.  

 
    Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments     
        None.  
 
    Item 2.    Properties     
        As of December 31, 2011, we own 26 properties in our home office complex in Des Moines, Iowa, and in various other
locations. Of these 26 properties, 12 are office buildings, 1 is a warehouse facility, 11 are parking lots and ramps, 1 is a park/green space and 1 is a childcare center. Of the office and
warehouse space, we occupy approximately 92% of the 2.7 million square feet of space in these buildings. The balance of the space in these buildings is rented to commercial tenants or is
occupied by the property management company servicing these properties. We lease office space for various offices located throughout the U.S. and internationally. We believe that our owned and leased
properties are suitable and adequate for our current business operations.  
 
    Item 3.    Legal Proceedings     
        Disclosure concerning material legal proceedings can be found in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications" under the caption, "Litigation and Regulatory Contingencies" and Item 8. "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes" under the caption, "Other Tax Information," which are incorporated here by this reference. 
29




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  Executive Officers of the Registrant     
        The following information is furnished with respect to our executive officers, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of
the Board of Directors. 
        Gregory B. Elming, 51, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Company and Principal Life since March 2011.
Prior to that time, he was Senior Vice President and Controller of the Company and Principal Life since 2007 and Vice President and Controller of the Company and Principal Life since 2002. 
        Daniel J. Houston, 50, who heads the Retirement and Investor Services and U.S. Insurance Solutions segments of our operations, was
named President, Retirement, Insurance and Financial Services of the Company and Principal Life on January 1, 2010. He was President, Retirement and Investor Services, from February 2008 until
January 2010, and was Executive Vice President, Retirement and Investor Services, from June 2006 to February 2008. 
        Julia M. Lawler, 52, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of the Company and of Principal Life since July
2002. From 2000 to 2002, she was President of the Real Estate Equity Group of Principal Global Investors, LLC. 
        Terrance J. Lillis, 59, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and of Principal Life since
August 2008 and Senior Vice President of the Company and Principal Life since May 2008. Prior to that time, he was Chief Financial Officer — Retirement and Investor Services
division of Principal Life since December 2001. 
        James P. McCaughan, 58, who heads the Principal Global Investors segment of our operations, has been President, Principal Global
Investors of the Company and of Principal Life since December 2003. Prior to that time, he served as Executive Vice President and global head of asset management for the Company and Principal Life
since April 2002. From 2000 to 2002, he was Chief Executive Officer of the Americas division of Credit Suisse Asset Management in New York, New York. 
        Mary A. O'Keefe, 55, who heads Corporate Relations, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company and
Principal Life since February 2005, Senior Vice President of the Company since April 2001, and Senior Vice President of Principal Life since January 1998. 
        Gary P. Scholten, 54, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Company and Principal Life since November
2002. From 1998 to 2002, he was Vice President of retail information services of Principal Life. 
        Karen E. Shaff, 57, has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company and of Principal Life since February 2004.
Prior thereto, she was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since April 2001, and Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Principal Life since January 2000. 
        Norman R. Sorensen, 66, chairman of Principal International, heads the Principal International segment of our operations. Prior to
his current position, he has been President and Chief Executive Officer of Principal International, Inc. since 1998 and served as President, Principal International, of the Company and Principal Life
since 2010; Executive Vice President, Principal International, of the Company and Principal Life since February 2008; Senior Vice President, Principal International of the Company, since April 2001;
and Senior Vice President of Principal Life since December 1998. Mr. Sorensen has announced his retirement from the Company effective February 29, 2012, and Luis Valdes,
President — Principal International, will head the Principal International segment of our operations as part of a planned succession. 
        Larry D. Zimpleman, 60, has been a Director of the Company and Principal Life since 2006. He has been Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company and Principal Life since May 2009 and was President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Principal Life from May 2008 to May 2009. Prior thereto, he was
President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and Principal Life from 2006 to May 2008. He was President, Retirement and Investor Services of the Company and of Principal Life from December
2003 through May 2006. Mr. Zimpleman served as chairman of the board and a director of the Principal Funds from December 2001 to December 2008. 
30




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART II     
 
    Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
        Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "PFG" on October 23, 2001. Prior
to such date, there was no established public trading market for our common stock. On February 8, 2012, there were 404,343 stockholders of record of our common stock. 
        The
following table presents the high and low prices for our common stock on the NYSE for the periods indicated and the dividends declared per share during such periods. 



















 
 
High 
 
Low 
 
Dividends 
 


 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First quarter
 
 $
34.70
 
 $
30.28
 
 
 —
 


 Second quarter
 
 $
35.00
 
 $
27.81
 
 
 —
 


 Third quarter
 
 $
31.00
 
 $
21.55
 
 
 —
 


 Fourth quarter
 
 $
28.76
 
 $
20.48
 
 $
0.70
 


 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First quarter
 
$
29.61
 
$
20.89
 
 
—
 


 Second quarter
 
$
31.41
 
$
23.33
 
 
—
 


 Third quarter
 
$
26.64
 
$
21.19
 
 
—
 


 Fourth quarter
 
$
33.34
 
$
25.42
 
$
0.55
 




        We declared an annual cash dividend of $0.70 per common share on October 26, 2011, and paid such dividend on December 2, 2011, to
stockholders of record on the close of business on November 10, 2011. We declared an annual cash dividend of $0.55 per common share on November 1, 2010, and paid such dividend on
December 3, 2010, to
stockholders of record on the close of business on November 19, 2010. Future dividend decisions will be based on and affected by a number of factors, including our operating results and
financial requirements and the impact of regulatory restrictions. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of regulatory restrictions on Principal Life's ability to pay us dividends. 
        The
following table presents the amount of our share purchase activity for the periods indicated: 
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  






















Period 
 
Total Number
of Shares
(or Units)
Purchased (1) 
 
Average
Price Paid
per Share
(or Unit) 
 
Total Number
of Shares
(or Units)
Purchased as Part
of Publicly
Announced Plans
or Programs 
 
Maximum Number (or
Approximate Dollar Value)
of Shares (or Units) that
May Yet Be Purchased
Under the Plans or
Programs (in millions) 
 


 January 1, 2011 — January 31, 2011
 
 
 931
 
 $
25.76
 
 
 —
 
 $
250.0
 


 February 1, 2011 — February 28, 2011
 
 
 412
 
 $
32.77
 
 
 —
 
 $
250.0
 


 March 1, 2011 — March 31, 2011
 
 
 175,259
 
 $
33.82
 
 
 —
 
 $
250.0
 


 April 1, 2011 — April 30, 2011
 
 
 521
 
 $
32.39
 
 
 —
 
 $
250.0
 


 May 1, 2011 — May 31, 2011
 
 
 1,615,674
 
 $
31.41
 
 
 1,609,108
 
 $
199.5
(2)


 June 1, 2011 — June 30, 2011
 
 
 6,085,457
 
 $
29.50
 
 
 6,083,184
 
 $
20.0
(2)


 July 1, 2011 — July 31, 2011
 
 
 682,254
 
 $
29.33
 
 
 682,024
 
 $
—
(2)


 August 1, 2011 — August 31, 2011
 
 
 2,544,606
 
 $
22.99
 
 
 2,538,500
 
 $
141.7
(3)


 September 1, 2011 — September 30, 2011
 
 
 5,885,026
 
 $
24.07
 
 
 5,884,461
 
 $
—
(3)


 October 1, 2011 — October 31, 2011
 
 
 234
 
 $
23.72
 
 
 —
 
 $
—
 


 November 1, 2011 — November 30, 2011
 
 
 963
 
 $
24.41
 
 
 —
 
 $
100.0
(4)


 December 1, 2011 — December 31, 2011
 
 
 4,131,450
 
 $
24.20
 
 
 4,131,450
 
 $
—
(4)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
 21,122,787
 
 
 
 
 
 20,928,727
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Includes
the number of shares of common stock utilized to execute certain stock incentive awards and shares purchased as part of a publicly announced
program.
(2)During
May 2011, our Board of Directors reinstated the November 2007 share repurchase program, which had previously been suspended. This program was
completed in July 2011.
(3)During
August 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $200.0 million of our outstanding common stock. This program was
completed in September 2011.
(4)During
November 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $100.0 million of our outstanding common stock. This program
was completed in December 2011. 

31



 
Table of Contents
 
    Item 6.   Selected Financial Data     
        The following table sets forth certain selected historical consolidated financial information. We derived the consolidated financial
information (except for amounts referred to as "Other Supplemental Data") for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 from our
audited consolidated financial statements and notes to the financial statements included in this Form 10-K. We derived the consolidated financial information (except for amounts
referred to as "Other Supplemental Data") for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 from our audited consolidated financial statements not
included in this Form 10-K. The following summary of consolidated financial information (except for amounts referred to as "Other Supplemental Data") has been prepared in accordance
with U.S. GAAP. 
        In
order to fully understand our consolidated financial information, you should also read Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes to the financial statements included in this Form 10-K. The results for past accounting periods are not
necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future accounting period. 

























 
 
As of or for the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 (1) 
 
2010 (1) 
 
2009 (1) 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


 
 
($ in millions, except per share data and as noted)
 


 Income Statement Data:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
2,891.0
 
 $
3,555.5
 
 $
3,750.6
 
 $
4,209.2
 
 $
4,634.1
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 2,565.1
 
 
 2,298.1
 
 
 2,096.0
 
 
 2,426.5
 
 
 2,634.7
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 3,375.8
 
 
 3,496.5
 
 
 3,400.8
 
 
 3,994.3
 
 
 3,966.5
 


 Net realized capital losses
 
 
 (122.3
)
 
 (191.5
)
 
 (398.3
)
 
 (694.1
)
 
 (328.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 $
8,709.6
 
 $
9,158.6
 
 $
8,849.1
 
 $
9,935.9
 
 $
10,906.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income from continuing operations, net of related income taxes
 
 $
751.2
 
 $
717.2
 
 $
645.7
 
 $
465.8
 
 $
864.3
 


 Net income
 
 $
751.2
 
 $
717.2
 
 $
645.7
 
 $
465.8
 
 $
884.5
 


 Earnings per Common Share Data:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income from continuing operations, net of related income taxes, per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 $
2.17
 
 $
2.08
 
 $
1.98
 
 $
1.64
 
 $
3.04
 


 Diluted
 
 $
2.15
 
 $
2.06
 
 $
1.97
 
 $
1.63
 
 $
3.01
 


 Net income per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 $
2.17
 
 $
2.08
 
 $
1.98
 
 $
1.64
 
 $
3.12
 


 Diluted
 
 $
2.15
 
 $
2.06
 
 $
1.97
 
 $
1.63
 
 $
3.09
 


 Cash dividends per common share
 
 $
0.70
 
 $
0.55
 
 $
0.50
 
 $
0.45
 
 $
0.90
 


 Balance Sheet Data:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
148,298.0
 
 $
145,631.1
 
 $
137,759.4
 
 $
128,182.4
 
 $
154,520.2
 


 Long-term debt
 
$

1,564.8
 
$

1,583.7
 
$

1,584.6
 
$

1,290.5
 
$

1,398.8
 


 Series A preferred stock
 
$

—
 
$

—
 
$

—
 
$

—
 
$

—
 


 Series B preferred stock
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 0.1
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
 10,013.0
 
 
 9,885.0
 
 
 8,016.4
 
 
 2,569.3
 
 
 7,519.3
 


 Other Supplemental Data:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 AUM ($ in billions)
 
 $
335.0
 
 $
318.8
 
 $
284.7
 
 $
247.0
 
 $
311.1
 








(1)For
a discussion of items materially affecting the comparability of 2011, 2010 and 2009, please see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations." 

32




 











Table of Contents 
 
    Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     
        The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2011, compared with December 31, 2010, and
our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion
should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K. 
 Forward-Looking Information  
        Our narrative analysis below contains forward-looking statements intended to enhance the reader's ability to assess our future
financial performance. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other
developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon
management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. 
        Actual
results may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not
limited to the risk factors listed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." 
 Overview  
        We provide financial products and services through the following reportable segments:


•Retirement and Investor Services, which consists of our asset accumulation operations that provide retirement savings and
related investment products and services. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and
medium-sized businesses. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive
benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan consulting services. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other
individuals. 
•Principal Global Investors, which consists of our asset management operations, manages assets for sophisticated investors
around the world, using a multi-boutique strategy that enables the segment to provide an expanded range of diverse investment capabilities including equity, fixed income and real estate investments.
Principal Global Investors also has experience in currency management, asset allocation, stable value management and other structured investment strategies.  
•Principal International, which offers retirement products and services, annuities, mutual funds, institutional asset
management and life insurance accumulation products through operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong SAR, India, Mexico and Southeast Asia. 
•U.S. Insurance Solutions, which provides individual life insurance as well as specialty benefits in the U.S. Our
individual life insurance products include universal and variable universal life insurance and traditional life insurance. Our specialty benefit products include group dental and vision insurance,
individual and group disability insurance and group life insurance. Effective January 1, 2011, wellness services and fee-for-service claims administration transitioned to the Specialty Benefits
division from the Corporate segment. 
•Corporate, which manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial
results of the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense and preferred stock dividends), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter-segment
eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after-tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. 

 Economic Factors and Trends  
        Continuing improvement in the equity markets since the latter half of 2009 led to increases in our Retirement and Investor Services
segment's account values and our Principal Global Investors segment's AUM relative to year-end 2008. Since account values and AUM are the base by which these businesses generate profits, the increase
in account values and AUM has contributed to the overall improvement of our profits. 
        In
our Principal International segment, we continued to grow our business organically through our existing subsidiaries and joint ventures and through strategic acquisitions. Local
currency AUM, a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, increased significantly as a result of positive net customer cash flows and market performance. The financial results for the
Principal International segment are also impacted by fluctuations of the foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for the countries in which we have business. 
        In
our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment, we continue to shift the marketing emphasis of our individual life insurance business to universal life insurance products from traditional life
insurance products. Our specialty benefits insurance division experienced a slowdown in growth of group products between 2009 and 2010 relative to prior years due 
33



 
Table of Contents
to
a combination of lower sales, higher lapses, reduced growth in salaries and reductions in covered lives of our existing group customers as a result of economic pressure. In 2011, we saw signs of
recovery through higher sales, slight inforce membership growth and improved retention. 
 Profitability  
        Our profitability depends in large part upon our:


•amount of AUM; 
•spreads we earn on our general account asset accumulation business that result from the difference between what we earn
and what we credit to policyholders; 
•ability to generate fee revenues by providing administrative and investment management services;  
•ability to price our insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits
and the related expenses; 
•ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes
or defaults or impairments of invested assets; 
•ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates on certain transactions and  
•ability to manage our operating expenses. 

 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
        The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor
our accounting policies. Our significant accounting policies are described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1,
Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." We have identified seven critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment and estimates about matters that are
inherently uncertain. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the reader's ability to assess our financial
condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. The identification, selection and disclosure of critical accounting estimates and
policies have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
 Valuation and Impairment of Fixed Income Investments  
         Fixed Maturities.    Fixed maturities include bonds, redeemable preferred stock and certain non-redeemable preferred stock. We
classify our fixed
maturities as either available-for-sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial position. The fair values of our public fixed maturities are
primarily based on market prices from independent pricing services. We have regular interactions with these vendors to ensure we understand their pricing methodologies and to confirm they are
utilizing observable market information. In addition, 22% of our invested asset portfolio is invested in fixed maturities that are private placement assets, where there are no readily available market
quotes to determine the fair market value. The majority of these assets are valued using a spread pricing matrix that utilizes observable market inputs. Securities are grouped into pricing categories
that vary by asset class, sector, rating and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment
professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Certain market
events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions among others. See item 8. "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements" for further discussion. 
        If
we are unable to price a fixed maturity security from third party pricing vendors we may obtain a broker quote or utilize an internal pricing model specific to the asset utilizing
relevant market information to the extent available. Less than 1% of our fixed maturities were valued using internal models. 
        A
rate increase based on the combined movement of interest rates and credit spreads of 100 basis points would produce a total value of approximately $40.3 billion, as compared to
the recorded amount of $42.2 billion related to our fixed maturity, available-for-sale assets held by the Principal Life general account as of December 31, 2011. Given the recent
unprecedented market disruption, a 100 basis point movement in the combined portfolio rate is reasonably likely. 
        We
had a $741.5 million increase in net unrealized gains within the U.S. fixed maturities, available-for-sale portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2011, of which an
approximate $2.2 billion net unrealized gain can be attributed to an approximate 98 basis points decrease in interest rates offset in part by net unrealized losses related to other market
factors. We had a $2,154.6 million increase in net unrealized gains for the year ended December 31, 2010, of which an approximate $1.0 billion net unrealized gain can be
attributed to an approximate 57 basis points decrease in interest rates and the remaining net unrealized gains related to other market factors. 
        Fixed
maturities classified as available-for-sale are subject to impairment reviews. When evaluating fixed maturities for impairment, we consider relevant facts and circumstances in
evaluating whether a credit or interest-related 
34



 
Table of Contents
impairment
is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the
decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; (4) for structured securities, the
adequacy of the expected cash flows and (5) our intent to sell a security or whether it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost
which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. When it is determined that the decline in value is other than temporary the carrying value of the security is reduced to its fair value, and a
corresponding impairment loss is reported primarily in net income, with noncredit impairment losses for certain fixed maturities we do not intend to sell reported in other comprehensive income. 
        There
are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and
uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuer's ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that
issuer; (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated; (3) the risk that our investment professionals are
making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and
circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. At December 31,
2011, we had $9,052.3 million in available-for-sale fixed maturities with gross unrealized losses totaling $1,523.9 million. Included in the gross unrealized losses are losses
attributable to both movements in market interest rates as well as movement in credit spreads. Net income would be reduced by approximately $1,523.9 million, on a pre-tax basis, if all the
securities in an unrealized loss position were deemed to be other than temporarily impaired and our intent was to sell all such securities. 
         Mortgage Loans.    Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans. At December 31, 2011, the carrying value of
our commercial
mortgage loans was $9,396.6 million. Commercial mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method
and net of valuation allowances. 
        Commercial
mortgage loans are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual
terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is created for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value
less cost to sell. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, the loan's observable market price or the
fair value of the collateral. 
        The
determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan valuation allowance and mortgage impairments are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the
adequacy of the mortgage loan valuation allowance and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability
to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The calculation for determining
mortgage impairment amounts requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on specific loans, estimating the value of the collateral and gauging changes in the
economic environment in general. The total valuation allowance can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. For more detailed information
concerning mortgage loan valuation allowances and impairments, see "Investments — U.S. Investment Operations — Mortgage Loans," and Item 8. "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments — Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance." 
        We
have a large experienced commercial real estate staff centrally located in Des Moines, which includes commercial mortgage underwriters, loan closers, loan servicers, engineers,
appraisers, credit analysts, research staff, legal staff,
information technology personnel and portfolio managers. Experienced commercial real estate senior management adheres to a disciplined process in reviewing all transactions for approval on a
consistent basis. The typical commercial mortgage loan for us averages in the mid 40% percent loan-to-value range at origination with a net operating income coverage ratio of 3.3 times the annual debt
service and is internally rated AA- on a bond equivalent basis. Based on the most recent analysis, our commercial mortgage loan portfolio, excluding mortgage loans held in our Principal
Global Investors segment, has an overall loan-to-value ratio of 60% with a 2.0 times debt service coverage. The large equity cushion and strong debt service coverage in our commercial mortgage
investments will help insulate us from stress during times of weak commercial real estate fundamentals. 
 Derivatives  
        We primarily use derivatives to hedge or reduce exposure to market risks. The fair values of exchange-traded derivatives are determined
through quoted market prices. The fair values of over-the-counter derivative instruments are determined using either pricing valuation models that utilize market observable inputs or broker quotes. On
an absolute fair value basis, 91.2% of our over-the-counter derivative assets and liabilities are valued using pricing valuation models, while the remaining 8.8% are valued using broker quotes. See
Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements" for further discussion. The fair values 
35



 
Table of Contents
of
our derivative instruments can be impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, equity indices, and volatility, as well as other contributing factors. 
        We
also issue certain annuity contracts and other insurance contracts that include embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated from the host contract. They are valued using a
combination of historical data and actuarial judgment. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value
Measurements" for further discussion. We include our assumption for own non-performance risk in the valuation of these embedded derivatives. As our credit spreads widen or tighten, the fair value of
the embedded derivative liabilities decrease or increase, leading to an increase or decrease in net income. If the current market credit spreads reflecting our own creditworthiness move to zero
(tighten), the reduction to net income would be approximately $21.6 million, net of DPAC and income taxes, based on December 31, 2011, reported amounts. The use of risk margins for the
valuation of embedded derivatives increases the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities. 
        The
accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the applicable accounting standards continue to evolve. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and
application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment. Judgment and estimates are used to determine the fair value of some of our derivatives. Volatility in net income
can result from changes in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and changes in fair value of embedded derivatives. 
 Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances  
        Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of
new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to net income
as incurred. 
         Amortization Based on Estimated Gross Profits.    DPAC for universal life-type insurance contracts, participating life insurance
policies and certain
investment contracts are amortized over the expected lifetime of the policies in relation to estimated gross profits ("EGP"). In addition to DPAC, the following actuarial balances are also amortized
in relation to EGP or contract assessments. 


•Sales inducement asset — Sales inducements are amounts that are credited to the contractholder's
account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract. Like DPAC, the cost of the sales inducement is capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion to EGP.  
•Unearned revenue liability — An unearned revenue liability is established when we collect fees or other
policyholder assessments that represent compensation for services to be provided in future periods. These revenues are deferred and then amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion
to EGP. 
•Reinsurance asset or liability — For universal-life type products that are reinsured, a reinsurance
asset or liability is established to spread the net reinsurance costs or profits in proportion to the EGP on the underlying business. 
•Present value of future profits ("PVFP") — This is an intangible asset that arises in connection with
the acquisition of a life insurance company or a block of insurance business. PVFP for universal life-type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment contracts
is amortized over the expected life of the contracts acquired, in proportion to EGP. 
•Additional benefit reserves — These are additional liabilities that are established for annuity or
universal life-type contracts that provide benefit guarantees, or for contracts that are expected to produce profits followed by losses. The liabilities are accrued in relation to estimated contract
assessments. 

        At
issue and each valuation date, we develop an estimate of the expected future gross profits that contains assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, lapses, investment yield and
expenses. As actual experience emerges, the
gross profits may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing, in which case a true-up to actual occurs as a charge or credit to current net income. In addition, we are required
to revise our assumptions regarding future experience if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier estimates should be revised. Both actions, reflecting actual experience and changing
future estimates, can change both the current amount and the future amortization pattern of the DPAC asset and related actuarial balances. 
        For
individual variable life insurance, individual variable annuities and group annuities which have separate account U.S. equity investment options, we utilize a mean reversion
methodology (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry practice, to determine the future domestic equity market growth rate assumption used for the calculation of EGP. If actual annualized
U.S. equity market performance varies from our 8% long-term assumption, we assume different performance levels in the short term such that the mean return is equal to the long-term assumption over the
mean reversion period. However, our mean reversion process generally limits assumed returns to a range of 4-12% during the mean reversion period. The 12% cap was reached during the third
quarter of 2008, and the mean reversion rate has remained at the 12% cap since then. Therefore, until the mean reversion rate falls below the 12% cap, we will not adjust the equity return assumption
by the amount needed to result in a mean return equal to the long-term assumption. 
        Amortization Based on Premium-Paying Period.    DPAC of non-participating term life insurance and individual disability policies are
amortized over the
premium-paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with 
36



 
Table of Contents
those
used in computing policyholder liabilities. Once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy unless a loss
recognition event occurs. As of December 31, 2011, these policies accounted for 12% of our total DPAC balance. 
         Internal Replacements.    We review policies for modifications that result in the exchange of an existing contract for a new
contract. If the new
contract is determined to be an internal replacement that is substantially changed from the replaced contract, any unamortized DPAC and related actuarial balances are written off and acquisition costs
related to the new contract are capitalized as appropriate. If the new contract is substantially unchanged, we continue to amortize the existing DPAC and related actuarial balances. 
         Recoverability.    DPAC and sales inducement assets are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss
recognition testing on an
annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant loss recognition. Likewise, PVFP is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant impairment. If
loss recognition or impairment is necessary, the asset balances are written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profits are not adequate
to cover related losses and expenses. 
        Sensitivities.    As of December 31, 2011, the net balance of DPAC and related actuarial balances, excluding balances affected
by changes in
other comprehensive income, was a $3,452.4 million asset. We perform sensitivity analyses to assess the impact that certain assumptions have on our DPAC and related actuarial balances. The
Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued authoritative guidance that will be effective for us on January 1, 2012, which modifies the definition of the types of costs incurred by
insurance entities that can be capitalized in the
successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts. Our retrospective adoption of this guidance will result in a reduction to our DPAC asset. As a result, we do not believe sensitivities
related to our December 31, 2011, balances provide meaningful information. We will perform sensitivity analyses to estimate the impact of various assumption changes on our DPAC and related
actuarial balances as of March 31, 2012. 
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  
        Goodwill and other intangible assets include the cost of acquired subsidiaries in excess of the fair value of the net tangible assets
recorded in connection with acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized; rather, we test the carrying value for impairment at least annually at the reporting
unit level, which is a business one level below the operating segment. We formally conduct our annual goodwill and other intangible asset impairment testing during the fourth quarter. Under certain
circumstances, interim impairment tests may be required if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. See
Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies" for further
discussion. 
        We
are required to perform a two-step test in our evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill. In Step 1 of the evaluation, the fair value of each reporting unit is determined and
compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit. If the fair value is greater than the carrying value, then the carrying value of the reporting unit is deemed to be recoverable, and Step 2 is not
required. If the fair value estimate is less than the carrying value, it is an indicator that impairment may exist, and Step 2 is required. In Step 2, the reporting unit's goodwill implied fair value
is determined. The reporting unit's fair value as determined in Step 1 is assigned to all of its net assets (recognized and unrecognized) as if the reporting unit were acquired in a business
combination as of the date of the impairment test. If the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is lower than its carrying amount, goodwill is impaired and written down to its implied
fair value. 
        The
determination of fair value for our reporting units is primarily based on an income approach whereby we use discounted cash flows for each reporting unit. When available, and as
appropriate, we use market approaches or other valuation techniques to corroborate discounted cash flow results. The discounted cash flow model used for each reporting unit is based on either income
or distributable cash flow, depending on the reporting unit being valued. 
        For
the income model, we determine fair value based on the present value of the most recent income projections for each reporting unit and calculate a terminal value utilizing a terminal
growth rate. The significant assumptions in the operating income model include: income projections, including the underlying assumptions; discount rate and terminal growth rate. 
        For
the distributable cash flow model, we determine fair value based on the present value of projected statutory net income and changes in required capital to determine distributable
income for the respective reporting unit. The significant assumptions in the distributable cash flow model include: required capital levels; income projections, including the underlying assumptions;
discount rate; new business projection period and new business production growth. 
        Intangible
assets with useful lives are amortized as related benefits emerge and are reviewed periodically for indicators of impairment in value. If facts and circumstances suggest
possible impairment, the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset is compared to the current carrying value of the asset. If the undiscounted
future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of assets over their fair value. For those assets amortized as related
benefits emerge, the most significant assumptions involved in the estimation of future benefits include surrender/lapse rates, interest margins and mortality. 
37



 
Table of Contents
        We
did not recognize a material impairment in our 2011 consolidated statement of operations. Investment management contracts acquired in our 2006 purchase of WM Advisors, Inc. are
considered an indefinite lived intangible and are the most material intangible asset included in our 2011 consolidated statement of financial position with a carrying value of $608.0 million.
Positive net cash flows and expected future flows combined with significantly lower than expected expenses more than offset lower than expected market returns on the underlying assets acquired. As a
result, the fair value of this intangible asset as of December 31, 2011, was in excess of its carrying value. We cannot predict certain future events that might adversely affect the reported
value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $482.3 million and $890.6 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. Such events include, but are not limited to,
strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, interest rate movements, declines in the equity markets, the
legal environment in which the businesses operate or a material negative change in our relationships with significant customers. Additional information about impairments is described in Item 8.
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." 
 Insurance Reserves  
        Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in the future, to or on behalf of our
policyholders. U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment, prescribes the methods of establishing reserves. 
        Future
policy benefits and claims include reserves for individual traditional and group life insurance, accident and health insurance and individual and group annuities that provide
periodic income payments, which are computed using assumptions of mortality, morbidity, lapse, investment performance and expense. These assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically
reviewed against industry standards to ensure actuarial credibility. For long duration insurance contracts, once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be
changed over the life of the policy. However, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency
reserves. Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal
analysis including, among other things, experience studies, claim development analysis and annual statutory asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates potential loss recognition, we
recognize losses on certain lines of business. The ultimate accuracy of the assumptions on these long-tailed insurance products cannot be determined until the obligation of the entire block of
business on which the assumptions were made is extinguished. Short-term variances of actual results from the assumptions used in the computation of the reserves are reflected in current period net
income and can impact quarter-to-quarter net income. 
        Future
policy benefits and claims also include reserves for incurred but unreported health, disability and life insurance claims. We recognize claims costs in the period the service was
provided to our policyowners. However, claims costs incurred in a particular period are not known with certainty until after we receive, process and pay the claims. We determine the amount of this
liability using actuarial methods based on historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends, where applicable, to determine our estimate of claim liabilities. We also look
back to assess how our prior periods' estimates developed. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period claim expense. Historically, the amount of
the claim reserve adjustment made in subsequent reporting periods for prior period estimates have been within a reasonable range given our normal claim fluctuations. 
 Benefit Plans  
        The reported expense and liability associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires the use of assumptions.
Numerous assumptions are made regarding the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, turnover, expected compensation increases, health care claim costs, health care cost
trends, retirement rates and mortality. The discount rate and the expected return on plan assets have the most significant impact on the level of expense. 
        The
assumed discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments inherent in the Projected Benefit Obligation and discounting those cash flows using a spot yield curve for
high quality corporate bonds. Our assumed discount rate for the 2011 year-end was 5.15%. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase the pension benefits Projected Benefit Obligation
and the 2012 Net Periodic Pension Cost ("NPPC") by approximately $79.9 million and $11.8 million, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase the other
postretirement benefits Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation by approximately $3.8 million and would have a nominal impact on the 2012 Net Periodic Benefit Cost ("NPBC"). A 0.25%
increase in the discount rate would result in decreases in benefit obligations and expenses at a level generally commensurate with those noted above. 
        The
assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets is set at the long-term rate expected to be earned based on the long-term investment policy of the plans and the various classes of
the invested funds. Historical and future expected returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk-free real rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The overall
long-term rate for each asset class was developed by combining a long-term inflation component, the real risk free rate of return and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed
based on long-term returns for each asset class, the plan's target asset allocation policy and the tax structure of the trusts. For the 2011 NPPC and 2011 NPBC, an 8.00% and 7.30% weighted average
long-term rate of return was used, respectively. For the 2012 
38



 
Table of Contents
NPPC
and 2012 NPBC, an 8.00% and 7.30% weighted average long-term rate of return assumption, respectively, will also be used. A 0.25% decrease in the assumed long-term rate of return would increase
2012 NPPC by approximately $3.6 million and the 2012 NPBC by approximately $1.2 million. A 0.25% increase in this rate would result in a decrease to expense at the same levels. The
assumed return on plan assets is based on the fair market value of plan assets as of December 31, 2011. 
        The
compensation increase assumption is generally set at a rate consistent with current and expected long-term compensation and salary policy, including inflation. Actuarial gains and
losses are amortized using a straight-line amortization method over the average remaining service period of employees, which is approximately 7 years for pension costs and approximately
11 years for other postretirement benefit costs. Prior service costs are amortized on a weighted average basis over approximately 3 years for pension and 4 years for other
postretirement benefit costs. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11, Employee and Agent Benefits" for further
discussion. 
 Income Taxes  
        We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of the liability for taxes due. Our tax accounting represents management's best
estimate of various events and transactions, such as completion of tax audits or establishment of, or changes to, a valuation allowance associated with certain deferred tax assets, which could affect
our estimates and effective income tax rate in a particular quarter or annual period. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax
bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We are required to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred
tax assets each quarter and establish a valuation allowance, if necessary, to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more-likely-than-not to be realizable. In determining the need for a
valuation allowance, we consider many factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and
carryforwards, taxable income in prior carryback years and implementation of any feasible and prudent tax planning strategies management would employ to realize the tax benefit. 
        Inherent
in the provision for income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition and the current or future realization
of operating losses, capital losses and certain tax credits. In the event these estimates differ from our prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly
change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the
year these estimates change. A further significant decline in value of assets incorporated into our tax planning strategies could lead to an increase of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets
having an adverse effect on current and future results. 
        In
addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits in U.S. as well as various state and foreign jurisdictions. Tax benefits are recognized for book purposes when the
more-likely-than-not threshold is met with regard to the validity of an uncertain tax position. Once this threshold is met, for each uncertain tax position we recognize in earnings the largest amount
of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the Internal Revenue Service or other income taxing authorities for audits ongoing or not yet commenced. 
        We
had $263.2 million and $230.9 million of current income tax receivables associated with outstanding audit issues reported as other assets in our consolidated statements
of financial position as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution
of contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not anticipate the ultimate resolution of audits ongoing or not yet commenced to have a material
impact on our net income. 
 Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations  
 Acquisitions  
        We entered into acquisition agreements or acquired the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: 
         Origin Asset Management LLP.    On October 3, 2011, we finalized the purchase of a 74% interest in Origin Asset Management LLP
("Origin"), a
global equity specialist based in London. The initial payment was $63.6 million. Origin had $2.6 billion in AUM in global and international equities at the time of the acquisition and is
consolidated within the Principal Global Investors segment. 
        HSBC AFORE, S.A. de C.V.    On August 8, 2011, we finalized the purchase of our 100% interest in HSBC AFORE, S.A. de
C.V. ("HSBC
AFORE"), a Mexican pension business, from HSBC Bank for $206.1 million. In addition, we and HSBC Bank have agreed to establish a distribution arrangement for the distribution of Principal
AFORE's products through HSBC Bank's extensive network in Mexico. HSBC AFORE is consolidated within the Principal International segment. 
         Finisterre Capital LLP and Finisterre Holdings Limited.    On July 1, 2011, we finalized the purchase of a 51% interest in
Finisterre Capital LLP
and Finisterre Holdings Limited, (together "Finisterre Capital"), an emerging markets debt investor based in London. The initial payment was $84.6 million, with a possible additional contingent
payment of up to 
39



 
Table of Contents
$30.0 million
in 2013, dependent upon performance targets. Finisterre Capital had $1.7 billion in AUM at the time of acquisition and is accounted for on the equity method within the
Principal Global Investors segment. 
 Dispositions  
        We entered into disposition agreements or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: 
         Post Advisory Group, LLC.    Effective January 1, 2009, we sold certain fixed income asset management contracts within our
Post Advisory Group,
LLC subsidiary, at which time we realized benefits from the cancellation of deferred
compensation agreements. The AUM associated with this sale totaled $3.8 billion. The total cash proceeds totaled $48.4 million and were received over a three year time period. 
        The
transaction does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under U.S. GAAP. The realized capital gain from the sale, which is reflected in our Principal Global
Investors segment, is not material. 
 Other  
         Individual Life Insurance Model and Assumption Changes.    During the second quarter of 2011, our individual life insurance
business made routine model
and assumption changes (collectively referred to as "integrated model changes") that resulted in a net loss of $3.9 million after-tax for the second quarter. The integrated model changes
altered the future estimated gross profit patterns that impact actuarial balances associated with our universal life and variable universal life insurance products. These balances are all part of an
integrated model and, therefore, although the impact to earnings was not material, the integrated model changes created volatility within certain income statement line items that are impacted by the
same future estimated gross profit patterns. Specifically, fee revenues increased $48.5 million; benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $131.1 million; and operating expenses
increased $185.6 million due to the unlocking of actuarial balances resulting from the integrated model changes. 
        Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc.    In early April 2011, we sold a portion of our interest in Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc., which
is accounted for on
the equity method. The approximate $46.0 million after-tax gain was reported as a net realized capital gain in the second quarter of 2011 within the Corporate segment and was, therefore,
excluded from operating earnings. The remaining portion of the investment will continue to be accounted for as an equity method investment. 
         Group Medical Insurance Business.    On September 30, 2010, we announced our decision to exit the group medical insurance
business (insured and
administrative services only) and entered into an agreement with United Healthcare Services, Inc. to renew group medical insurance coverage for our customers as the business transitions. The exiting
of the group medical insurance business does not yet qualify for discontinued operations treatment under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, the results of operations for the group medical insurance business
are still included in our consolidated income from continuing operations within the Corporate segment. 
        With
the exception of corporate overhead, amounts related to our group medical insurance business previously included in segment operating earnings have been removed from operating
earnings for all periods presented and are reported as other after-tax adjustments. The operating revenues associated with our exited group medical insurance business were $606.3 million,
$1,403.9 million and $1,610.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The other after-tax adjustments associated with the after-tax earnings of
our exited group medical insurance business were $50.9 million, $24.0 million and $70.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
         Brasilprev Seguros e Previdencia S.A.    On April 30, 2010, we signed definitive agreements with Banco, including the
Shareholders
Agreement governing the operations of our pension joint venture, Brasilprev. The agreements result in Brasilprev having, for 23 years, the exclusive right to distribute pension products within
the Banco bank network and a reduction in our economic interest from 46% to 25%, which resulted in a $72.1 million after-tax net realized capital gain in the second quarter of 2010. Brasilprev
continues to be jointly managed and reported as an equity method investment in our Principal International segment. Due to the reduction in our economic interest, we reflect a lower percentage of the
earnings from the operation. However, we expect the operation to grow and offset the decline from the lower percentage. 
         Senior Note Issuance.    On May 18, 2009, we issued $750.0 million of senior notes. We issued a $400.0 million
series of notes that
bear interest at 7.875% and will mature on May 15, 2014, and a $350.0 million series of notes that bear interest at 8.875% and will mature on May 15, 2019. Interest on the notes
is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 each year, beginning on November 15, 2009. The proceeds were primarily used to refinance $440.9 million of notes that
matured on August 15, 2009, with the remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. 
         Common Stock Issuance.    On May 11, 2009, we issued 58.2 million shares of common stock at a price of $19.75 per share.
Net proceeds from
the issuance were $1,109.1 million. The proceeds from this offering were used for general corporate purposes. 
 Fluctuations in Foreign Currency to U.S. Dollar Exchange Rates  
        Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial
results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies 
40



 
Table of Contents
into
U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. 
        Foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated financial results. The Principal
International segment's operating earnings were positively impacted by $7.1 million, positively impacted by $15.2 million and negatively impacted by $19.6 million for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for our foreign operations. For a discussion of our
approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Currency Risk." 
 Effects of Inflation  
        The impact of inflation has not had a material effect on our annual consolidated results of operations over the past three years.
However, we may be materially affected by inflation in the future. For further discussion on inflation, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors — Continued difficult conditions in the
global capital markets and the economy generally may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations." 
 Stock-Based Compensation Plans  
        For information related to our stock-based compensation plans, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 17, Stock-Based Compensation Plans." 
 Employee and Agent Benefits Expense  
        The 2011 annual defined benefit pension expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents was $92.7 million
pre-tax, which was a $16.8 million decrease from the 2010 pre-tax pension expense of $109.5 million. This decrease is primarily due to actual asset returns in 2010 that were greater than
expected. The higher asset value increased the expected return on plan assets in 2011 and the actuarial gain reduced the previous actuarial loss and its amortization in 2011. The expected long-term
return on plan assets used to develop the 2011 expense remained at the same 8.0%. The original discount rate used to develop the 2011 expense was 5.65%. During 2011, the Home Office Pension Plan was
remeasured quarterly and expense redetermined using a discount rate of 5.80% as of March 31, 2011, 5.70% as of June 30, 2011 and 5.25% as of September 30, 2011. Asset and
liability performance as of each measurement date affected the expense in the following quarter. We will not be remeasuring the Home Office Pension Plan quarterly in 2012. 
        The
2012 annual defined benefit pension expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents is expected to be $122.1 million pre-tax, which is a $29.4 million
increase from the 2011 pre-tax pension expense of $92.7 million. This increase is primarily due to a decrease in the discount rates as of December 31, 2011, increasing the service cost,
interest cost, and gain/loss amortization. The expected long-term return on plan assets used to develop the 2012 expense remained at the same 8.0%. The discount rate used to develop the 2012 expense
was 5.15%, down from the various discount rates used in 2011. 
        The
2011 annual other postretirement employee benefit ("OPEB") plan expense (income) for retired employees was $(58.0) million pre-tax, which is a $(46.7) million
difference from the 2010 pre-tax OPEB income of $(11.3) million. This difference is primarily due to significant changes in plan design for the postretirement medical plan. For retirements on
or after January 1, 2011, the company-paid subsidy for pre-Medicare-eligible coverage is 40% and the cost of coverage for Medicare-eligible retirees (or their dependents) is no longer
subsidized. In addition to the changes for individuals retiring on or after January 1, 2011, the method for determining the premium equivalent rate was changed to be solely based on retiree
experience. The expected long-term return on plan assets used to develop the expense (income) in 2011 remained at 7.30%, which was used to develop the 2010 expense. The original discount rate used to
develop the 2011 expense (income) was 5.65%. During 2011, the Home Office Health and Life Plans were remeasured quarterly using a discount rate of 5.80% as of March 31, 2011, 5.70% as of
June 30, 2011 and 5.25% as of September 30, 2011. 
        The
2012 annual OPEB plan expense (income) for retired employees is expected to be $(55.9) million pre-tax, which is a $2.1 million difference from the 2011 pre-tax OPEB
income of $(58.0) million. This difference is primarily due to a reduction in the prior service credit to be recognized. The 2011 expense included $(5.1) million in one-time credits due
to the curtailment from the health insurance business exit. The expected long-term return on plan assets used to develop the expense (income) in 2012 remained at 7.30%, which was used to develop the
2011 expense. The discount rate used to develop the 2012 expense (income) decreased to 5.15%, down from the various discount rates used in 2011. 
 Healthcare Reform  
        During the first quarter of 2010, federal legislation was enacted that reformed the healthcare system. Among the many changes, the
newly enacted healthcare legislation eliminates the tax deductibility of retiree prescription drug expenses incurred after 2012, up to the Medicare Part D subsidy amount, which had been allowed
to encourage employers to offer retiree drug coverage. We recognized a $7.8 million negative impact to net income for the year ended December 31, 2010, associated with the release of the
portion of our deferred tax asset on accrued retiree prescription drug expenses related to our employees that will no longer be tax-deductible after December 31, 2012. 
41




 










Table of Contents 
 Recent Accounting Changes  
        In October 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the definition of the types of costs incurred by insurance
entities that can be capitalized in the successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts. Capitalized costs should include incremental direct costs of contract acquisition, as well as
certain costs related directly to acquisition activities such as underwriting, policy issuance and processing, medical and inspection and sales force contract selling. This guidance will be effective
for us on January 1, 2012, and we will adopt this guidance on a retrospective basis. 
        Our
retrospective adoption of this guidance will result in a reduction in our DPAC asset as well as a decrease in amortization associated with those previously deferred costs. There will
also be a reduction in the level of costs we defer subsequent to adoption. Our retrospective adoption will result in a reduction to the opening balance of retained earnings of approximately
$640.0 million at January 1, 2012. This amount does not include the impact of net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities. We currently estimate that net income
available to common stockholders and operating earnings will decrease between $35.0 million and $45.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. These estimates are based on
our current operating assumptions and are subject to change. 
        For
other recent accounting changes, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and
Significant Accounting Policies." 
 Results of Operations  
        The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: 

























 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 
Increase (decrease) 
 


 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
2010 vs. 2009 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
2,891.0
 
 $
3,555.5
 
 $
3,750.6
 
 $
(664.5
)
 $
(195.1
)


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 2,565.1
 
 
 2,298.1
 
 
 2,096.0
 
 
 267.0
 
 
 202.1
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 3,375.8
 
 
 3,496.5
 
 
 3,400.8
 
 
 (120.7
)
 
 95.7
 


 Net realized capital gains, excluding impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 75.0
 
 
 48.7
 
 
 54.9
 
 
 26.3
 
 
 (6.2
)


 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 (147.6
)
 
 (296.3
)
 
 (714.1
)
 
 148.7
 
 
 417.8
 


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale reclassified to (from) other comprehensive income
 
 
 (49.7
)
 
 56.1
 
 
 260.9
 
 
 (105.8
)
 
 (204.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 (197.3
)
 
 (240.2
)
 
 (453.2
)
 
 42.9
 
 
 213.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital losses
 
 
 (122.3
)
 
 (191.5
)
 
 (398.3
)
 
 69.2
 
 
 206.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 8,709.6
 
 
 9,158.6
 
 
 8,849.1
 
 
 (449.0
)
 
 309.5
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 4,454.1
 
 
 5,338.4
 
 
 5,334.5
 
 
 (884.3
)
 
 3.9
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 210.2
 
 
 219.9
 
 
 242.2
 
 
 (9.7
)
 
 (22.3
)


 Operating expenses
 
 
 3,057.7
 
 
 2,759.0
 
 
 2,526.6
 
 
 298.7
 
 
 232.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 7,722.0
 
 
 8,317.3
 
 
 8,103.3
 
 
 (595.3
)
 
 214.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income before income taxes
 
 
 987.6
 
 
 841.3
 
 
 745.8
 
 
 146.3
 
 
 95.5
 


 Income taxes
 
 
 236.4
 
 
 124.1
 
 
 100.1
 
 
 112.3
 
 
 24.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 751.2
 
 
 717.2
 
 
 645.7
 
 
 34.0
 
 
 71.5
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 36.2
 
 
 17.9
 
 
 23.0
 
 
 18.3
 
 
 (5.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 
 
 715.0
 
 
 699.3
 
 
 622.7
 
 
 15.7
 
 
 76.6
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
682.0
 
 $
666.3
 
 $
589.7
 
 $
15.7
 
 $
76.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010  

 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders  

        Net income available to common stockholders increased primarily due to a realized capital gain associated with the sale of a portion of
our interest in Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc. in 2011, lower net impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale and higher earnings in our U.S. Insurance Solutions, Principal
International and Principal Global Investors segments. These increases to net income available to common stockholders were partially offset by the impact of a court ruling on some uncertain tax
positions. 

 Total Revenues  

        Premiums decreased $770.3 million for the Corporate segment primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members in
our exited group medical insurance business. 
42



 
Table of Contents
        Fees
increased $148.9 million for our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment primarily due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business and the
unlocking of unearned revenue associated with integrated model changes. Fees also increased $73.2 million for our Retirement and Investor Services segment primarily due to higher fees stemming
from an increase in average account values, which resulted from generally positive equity market performance since 2010. In addition, fees increased $64.0 million for our Principal Global
Investors segment primarily due to higher fee revenues driven by an increase in average AUM as well as increased performance fees in our equity business and higher borrower fees from our real estate
business. 
        Net
investment income decreased due to lower yields and a decrease in average invested assets and cash, excluding the fair value adjustment associated with fixed maturities and equity
securities, primarily due to our decision to scale back our investment only business. These decreases were partially offset by higher inflation-based investment returns on average invested assets and
cash as a result of higher inflation in Chile and the strengthening of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar. For additional information, see "Investments —
Investment Results." 
        Net
realized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to other than temporary impairments of invested assets, mark-to-market adjustments of certain invested assets and our decision to
sell invested assets. Net realized capital losses decreased primarily due to a gain associated with the sale of a portion of our interest in Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc. in 2011, lower losses
related to the residential mortgage loan loss provision for our Bank and Trust Services business and lower net impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale. These decreases were
partially offset by a 2010 gain associated with the signing of our Shareholders Agreement with Banco pertaining to our Brasilprev joint venture with no corresponding activity in 2011. For additional
information, see "Investments — Investment Results." 

 Total Expenses  

        Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $607.1 million for the Corporate segment primarily due to a reduction in
average covered medical members in our exited group medical insurance business. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses also decreased $189.5 million for the Retirement and Investor Services
segment primarily due to a decrease in cost of interest credited stemming from lower variable crediting rates and a decline in average account values, which primarily resulted from our decision to
scale back our investment only business. 
        U.S.
Insurance Solutions operating expenses increased $355.0 million, primarily due to higher DPAC amortization from the unlocking associated with integrated model changes in the
current period and lower DPAC amortization in the prior period due to lowering long-term interest rate assumptions in our individual life insurance business. Retirement and Investor Services operating
expenses also increased $107.1 million, primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization expense resulting from generally level equity markets in 2011, compared to improving equity markets in
2010, and to a lesser extent, an increase in non-deferrable commission expense and management fees, which resulted from an increase in average account values. Partially offsetting these increases was
a $231.4 million decrease for the Corporate segment primarily due to lower staff related costs in our exited group medical insurance business. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rates were 24% and 15% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The effective
income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011, was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% ("U.S. statutory rate") primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for
corporate dividends received, the presentation of taxes on our share of earnings generated from equity method investments and the interest exclusion from taxable income, which were partially offset by
the impact of a court ruling on some uncertain tax positions. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income
tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, the presentation of taxes on our share of earnings generated from equity method investments and the interest exclusion from taxable income. The
effective income tax rate increased to 24% from 15% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily due to the impact of a 2011 court ruling on some uncertain tax
positions. 
 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009  

 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders  

        Net income available to common stockholders increased primarily due to higher fees in our Retirement and Investor Services segment
stemming from an increase in average account values, which resulted from continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. Our Principal Global Investors segment also had higher
profitability due to higher fee revenues driven by an increase in average AUM, which resulted from continuing market improvement, as well as higher borrower fees from our real estate business
resulting from higher transaction volumes and higher servicing fees. In addition, our Principal International segment had higher profitability primarily due to the strengthening of the Latin American
currencies against the U.S. dollar, higher investment returns on assets not backing segment insurance products as a result of inflation in Chile during 2010 compared to deflation in 2009, and higher
fee revenues driven by higher average AUM as a result of net customer cash flows and market performance. These increases in net income available to common stockholders were partially offset by an
impairment of goodwill and severance accruals in the Corporate segment in the third quarter of 2010 associated with our decision to exit the group medical insurance business. 
43



 
Table of Contents
        The
reduction in net realized capital losses was mostly offset by a corresponding increase in related DPAC amortization expense. Higher net realized capital losses in 2009 within our
full service accumulation and individual annuities businesses resulted in lower DPAC amortization expense in 2009. 

 Total Revenues  

        Premiums decreased $205.3 million for the Corporate segment primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members in
our exited group medical insurance business. In addition, U.S. Insurance Solutions segment premiums decreased $90.9 million primarily due to a decrease in membership in our specialty benefits
insurance business and the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business. Partially offsetting these decreases was an $85.0 million increase in
Retirement and Investor Services segment premiums primarily due to an increase in sales of annuities with life contingencies within our individual annuities and full service payout businesses. 
        Fees
increased $115.5 million for our Retirement and Investor Services segment primarily due to higher fee income stemming from an increase in average account values as a result
of continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. Fees also increased $37.9 million for our Principal Global Investors segment primarily due to higher fee revenues driven
by an increase in average AUM as well as higher borrower fees from our real estate business resulting from higher transaction volumes and higher servicing fees. In addition, fees increased
$31.7 million for our Principal International segment primarily due to higher investment management fees driven by higher average AUM as a result of local market performance and net customer
cash flows coupled with the strengthening of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar. 
        Net
investment income increased primarily due to higher inflation-based investment returns on average invested assets and cash as a result of inflation in Chile during 2010 compared to
deflation in 2009. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in average invested assets and cash, excluding the fair value adjustment associated with fixed maturities and equity securities,
primarily due to our decision to scale back our investment only business. For additional information, see "Investments — Investment Results." 
        Net
realized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to other than temporary impairments of invested assets, mark-to-market adjustments of certain invested assets and our decision to
sell invested assets. Net realized capital losses decreased primarily due to lower impairments, net of noncredit losses recognized in other comprehensive income and recoveries from sales, on fixed
maturities, available-for-sale; a gain associated with the second quarter 2010 signing of our Shareholders Agreement with Banco pertaining to our Brasilprev joint venture and lower losses on
commercial mortgage loans. These items were partially offset by an increase in the residential mortgage loan loss provision for our Bank and Trust Services business in 2010, which primarily related to
the home equity portfolio. For additional information, see "Investments — Investment Results." 

 Total Expenses  

        Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $169.2 million for the Principal International segment, primarily due to
higher inflation-based interest crediting rates to customers in Chile and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses also increased
$89.4 million for the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment primarily due to higher gross claims and larger increases in reserves. Partially offsetting these increases was a $192.4 million
decrease for the Corporate segment primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members in our exited group medical insurance business. In addition, Retirement and Investor Services segment
benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $62.3 million primarily due to a decrease in cost of interest credited stemming from lower variable crediting rates and a decline in average
account values in our investment only business, which primarily resulted from our decision to scale back this business. 
        Retirement
and Investor Services operating expenses increased $177.8 million, primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization expense resulting from more favorable DPAC
unlocking in 2009 and, to a lesser extent, higher commission and distribution expenses resulting from an increase in sales and average account values. Operating expenses also increased
$51.0 million for the Corporate segment primarily due to an impairment of goodwill and severance accruals associated with our decision to exit the group medical insurance business. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rates were 15% and 13% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective
income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, the presentation of taxes on our share of earnings generated
from equity method investments and the interest exclusion from taxable income. 
44




 










Table of Contents 
 Results of Operations by Segment  
        For results of operations by segment see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Note 16, Segment Information." 
 Retirement and Investor Services Segment  
 Retirement and Investor Services Trends  
        Account values are a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as account values are the base by which the segment generates
its fee and spread-based profits. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of account value growth. Net cash flow reflects the segment's ability to attract and retain client
deposits. Market performance reflects not only the equity market performance, but also the investment performance of fixed income investments supporting our spread business. The percentage growth in
earnings of the segment should generally track the percentage growth in account values. This trend may vary due to changes in business and/or product mix. 
        The
following table presents the Retirement and Investor Services account value rollforward for the years indicated: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in billions)
 


 Account values, beginning of period
 
 $
178.3
 
 $
163.9
 
 $
146.1
 


 Net cash flow (1)
 
 
 4.3
 
 
 (2.1
)
 
 (3.4
)


 Credited investment performance (2)
 
 
 1.0
 
 
 17.1
 
 
 22.3
 


 Other
 
 
 (0.3
)
 
 (0.6
)
 
 (1.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Account values, end of period
 
 $
183.3
 
 $
178.3
 
 $
163.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Includes
net cash flow of $(0.7) billion, $(3.7) billion and $(5.2) billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively, resulting from the decision to scale back our investment only business.
(2)The
decrease in credited investment performance is primarily due to lower equity markets in the second half of 2011. 

 Retirement and Investor Services Segment Summary Financial Data  
        The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Retirement and Investor Services segment for the years
indicated: 

























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increase (decrease) 
 


 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
2010 vs. 2009 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
390.4
 
 $
332.2
 
 $
247.2
 
 $
58.2
 
 $
85.0
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 1,431.2
 
 
 1,361.3
 
 
 1,243.9
 
 
 69.9
 
 
 117.4
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 2,252.5
 
 
 2,430.9
 
 
 2,550.4
 
 
 (178.4
)
 
 (119.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating revenues
 
 
 4,074.1
 
 
 4,124.4
 
 
 4,041.5
 
 
 (50.3
)
 
 82.9
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders
 
 
 1,996.7
 
 
 2,128.7
 
 
 2,217.5
 
 
 (132.0
)
 
 (88.8
)


 Operating expenses
 
 
 1,322.6
 
 
 1,240.8
 
 
 1,169.4
 
 
 81.8
 
 
 71.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 3,319.3
 
 
 3,369.5
 
 
 3,386.9
 
 
 (50.2
)
 
 (17.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating earnings before income taxes
 
 
 754.8
 
 
 754.9
 
 
 654.6
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 100.3
 


 Income taxes
 
 
 173.7
 
 
 170.5
 
 
 144.2
 
 
 3.2
 
 
 26.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating earnings
 
 $
581.1
 
 $
584.4
 
 $
510.4
 
 $
(3.3
)
 $
74.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010  

 Operating Earnings  

        Operating earnings decreased $9.9 million in our investment only business primarily due to a decrease in fees, which stems from
the early extinguishment of medium term notes in 2010 with no corresponding experience in 2011 and a decline in average account values resulting from negative net cash flow as the pace of contractual
maturities remains higher than the amount of new deposits. In addition, operating earnings decreased $6.6 million and $5.6 million in our full service accumulation and individual
annuities businesses, respectively, primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization expense resulting from generally level equity markets in 2011, compared to improving equity markets in 2010. To a
lesser extent, full service accumulation operating earnings decreased due to an increase in non-deferrable commission expense and management fees, which resulted from an increase in average account
values. Partially offsetting the decreases in operating earnings was an $8.8 million increase in our Principal Funds business primarily due to higher 
45



 
Table of Contents
fees
stemming from an increase in average account values, which resulted from generally positive equity market performance since 2010. Furthermore, operating earnings increased $5.9 million in
our full service payout business primarily due to a decrease in change in reserves resulting from a larger than normal reserve increase in the third quarter of 2010 with no corresponding activity in
2011, as well as a larger reserve release due to favorable mortality experience in 2011. 

 Operating Revenues  

        Premiums increased $117.1 million in our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in sales of annuities with
life contingencies stemming from expanding opportunities with our bank distribution partners. Partially offsetting the increase in premiums was a $58.9 million decrease in our full service
payout business primarily due to a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. The single premium product, which is typically used to fund defined benefit plan
terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore tends to vary from period to period. 
        Fees
increased $42.3 million and $23.1 million in our Principal Funds and full service accumulation businesses, respectively, primarily due to higher fees stemming from an
increase in average account values, which resulted from generally positive equity market performance since 2010. 
        Net
investment income decreased primarily due to a decrease in average invested assets, excluding the fair value adjustment associated with fixed maturities and equity securities, and a
decline in reinvestment yields. The decrease in average invested assets primarily resulted from our decision to scale back our investment only business. 

 Total Expenses  

        Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $108.3 million in our investment only business primarily due to a decrease in
cost of interest credited stemming from lower variable crediting rates and a decline in average account values, which primarily resulted from our decision to scale back this business. In addition,
benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $77.0 million in our full service payout business primarily due to a decrease in change in reserves resulting from a decrease in sales of
single premium group annuities with life contingencies and, to a lesser extent, a larger than normal reserve increase in the third quarter of 2010 with no corresponding activity in 2011, as well as a
larger reserve release due to favorable mortality experience in 2011. Furthermore, benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $37.6 million in our full service accumulation business
primarily due to a decrease in cost of interest credited stemming from lower variable crediting rates. Partially offsetting the decreases in benefits, claims and settlement expenses was an
$89.8 million increase in our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in change in reserves resulting from higher sales of annuities with life contingencies and continued
growth in the block of business. 
        Operating
expenses increased $42.5 million and $21.1 million in our full service accumulation and individual annuities businesses primarily due to an increase in DPAC
amortization expense resulting from generally level equity markets in 2011, compared to improving equity markets in 2010. To a lesser extent, operating expenses increased in our full service
accumulation business due to an increase in non-deferrable commission expense and management fees, which resulted from an increase in average account values. In addition, operating expenses increased
$28.5 million in our Principal Funds business primarily due to higher distribution and management fees resulting from an increase in sales and average account values. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rate for the segment was 23% for the both the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The effective
income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily as a
result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and the interest exclusion from taxable income. 
 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009  

 Operating Earnings  

        Operating earnings increased $48.9 million and $16.2 million in our full service accumulation and Principal Funds
businesses, respectively, primarily due to higher fees stemming from an increase in average account values, which resulted from continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. In
addition, operating earnings increased in our Principal Fund business due to strong cash flows into the Global Diversified Income Fund, Preferred Securities Fund and High Yield Fund. Furthermore,
operating earnings increased $17.8 million in our individual annuities business due to an increase in average account values, which resulted from continuing equity market improvement since the
latter half of 2009 and growth in this block of business. Partially offsetting the increase in operating earnings was an $18.5 million decrease in our investment only business primarily due to
an opportunistic early extinguishment of medium-term notes in 2009 with limited corresponding activity in 2010. 

 Operating Revenues  

        Premiums increased $49.0 million in our full service payout business primarily due to an increase in sales of single premium
group annuities with life contingencies. The single premium product, which is typically used to fund defined 
46



 
Table of Contents
benefit
plan terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore tends to vary from period to period. In addition, premiums increased $36.0 million in our individual
annuities business primarily due to an increase in sales of annuities with life contingencies. 
        Fees
increased $73.0 million and $16.6 million in our full service accumulation and individual annuities businesses, respectively, primarily due to higher fee income
stemming from an increase in average account values as a result of continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. In addition, fees increased $51.6 million in our Principal
Funds business primarily due to an increase in management fee income and distribution income stemming from an increase in sales and average account values, which primarily resulted from continuing
equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. Partially offsetting the increase in fees was a $26.8 million decrease in our investment only business primarily due to fees received in
2009 relating to an opportunistic early extinguishment of medium-term notes with limited corresponding activity in 2010. 
        Net
investment income decreased primarily due to a decrease in average invested assets, excluding the fair value adjustment associated with fixed maturities and equity securities,
resulting from our decision to scale back our investment only business. 

 Total Expenses  

        Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $123.1 million in our investment only business primarily due to a decrease in
cost of interest credited stemming from lower variable crediting rates and a decline in average account values, which primarily resulted from our decision to scale back this business. In addition,
benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $41.4 million in our full service accumulation business primarily due to a decrease in cost of interest credited stemming from lower variable
crediting rates. Partially offsetting the decrease in benefits, claims and settlement expenses was a $45.4 million increase in our full service payout business primarily due to an increase in
change of reserves resulting from an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Furthermore, benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $31.6 million
in our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in change of reserves resulting from higher sales of annuities with life contingencies and continued growth in the block of business. 
        Operating
expenses in our full service accumulation business increased $34.7 million primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization expense resulting from more favorable DPAC
unlocking in 2009. In addition, operating expenses increased $24.1 million in our Principal Funds business primarily due to higher distribution expenses resulting from an increase in sales and
average account values. Furthermore, operating expenses in our individual annuities business increased $16.7 million primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization expense resulting from
continued growth in the block of business. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rates for the segment were 23% and 22% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and the interest exclusion from taxable
income. 
 Principal Global Investors Segment  
 Principal Global Investors Trends  
        Our overall AUM increased $7.7 billion in 2011 primarily due to improved market performance as well as the acquisition of
Finisterre Capital and Origin in 2011. While we have continued to experience success in winning institutional asset management mandates and other client deposits, we have also continued to see client
withdrawals driven by portfolio rebalancing and asset allocation strategies and client mergers. 
        The
following table provides a summary of Principal Global Investor's affiliated and third-party AUM as of the periods indicated: 



















 
 
Principal Global Investors 
 


As of 
 
Affiliated
AUM 
 
Third-party
AUM 
 
Total AUM 
 


 
 
(in billions)
 


 December 31, 2011
 
 $
145.4
 
$
82.4
 
$
227.8
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
141.4
 
 
78.7
 
 
220.1
 


 December 31, 2009
 
 
131.5
 
 
73.8
 
 
205.3
 




 Principal Global Investors Segment Summary Financial Data  
        AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for our Principal Global Investors segment, as AUM is the base by which we generate revenues.
Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of AUM growth. Net cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects equity, fixed income
and real estate market performance. The percentage growth in earnings of the segment will generally track with the percentage growth in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and/or
product mix. 
47



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table presents the AUM rollforward for assets managed by Principal Global Investors for the years indicated: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in billions)
 


 AUM, beginning of period
 
 $
220.1
 
 $
205.3
 
 $
190.0
 


 Net cash flow (1)
 
 
 (1.8
)
 
 (7.0
)
 
 (7.7
)


 Investment performance (2)
 
 
 6.1
 
 
 22.3
 
 
 28.5
 


 Operations acquired (3)
 
 
 4.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Operations disposed (4)
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (3.8
)


 Other
 
 
 (0.9
)
 
 (0.5
)
 
 (1.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 AUM, end of period
 
 $
227.8
 
 $
220.1
 
 $
205.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Includes
net cash flow of $(0.7) billion, $(3.7) billion and $(5.2) billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively, resulting from the Retirement and Investor Services segment's decision to scale back its investment only business.
(2)The
decrease in investment performance is primarily due to lower equity markets in the second half of 2011.
(3)Reflects
acquisition of Finisterre Capital and Origin in 2011.
(4)Reflects
disposition of certain asset management contracts within Post Advisory Group, LLC in 2009. 

        The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Principal Global Investors segment for the years indicated: 

























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increase (decrease) 
 


 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
2010 vs. 2009 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 $
531.2
 
 $
467.2
 
 $
429.2
 
 $
64.0
 
 $
38.0
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 15.1
 
 
 14.2
 
 
 10.2
 
 
 0.9
 
 
 4.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating revenues
 
 
 546.3
 
 
 481.4
 
 
 439.4
 
 
 64.9
 
 
 42.0
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 429.3
 
 
 384.2
 
 
 375.6
 
 
 45.1
 
 
 8.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating earnings before income taxes
 
 
 117.0
 
 
 97.2
 
 
 63.8
 
 
 19.8
 
 
 33.4
 


 Income taxes
 
 
 41.0
 
 
 33.7
 
 
 21.0
 
 
 7.3
 
 
 12.7
 


 Operating earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 2.0
 
 
 5.0
 
 
 4.6
 
 
 (3.0
)
 
 0.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating earnings
 
 $
74.0
 
 $
58.5
 
 $
38.2
 
 $
15.5
 
 $
20.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010  

 Operating Earnings  

        Operating earnings increased due to higher fee revenues driven by an increase in average AUM. In addition, operating earnings increased
due to higher borrower fees from our real estate business resulting from higher transaction volumes and higher servicing fees. 

 Operating Revenues  

        Fees increased primarily due to an increase in average AUM as well as increased performance fees in our equity business and higher
borrower fees from our real estate business. 
        Net
investment income increased primarily due to earnings of our equity method investment in Finisterre Capital, which was acquired in July 2011. 

 Total Expenses  

        Total expenses increased primarily due to higher staff related costs resulting from higher compensation expense, as well as other
expenses generally related to our acquisition of Origin in 2011. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rate for the segment was 35% for both the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
48



 
Table of Contents
 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009  

 Operating Earnings  

        Operating earnings increased primarily due to higher fee revenues driven by an increase in average AUM as a result of continued market
improvement since the latter half of 2009. In addition, operating earnings increased due to higher borrower fees from our real estate business resulting from higher transaction volumes and higher
servicing fees. 

 Operating Revenues  

        Fees increased primarily due to an increase in average AUM as well as higher borrower fees from our real estate business. 
        Net
investment income increased primarily due to losses in an equity method investment in 2009 with very little activity in 2010. 

 Total Expenses  

        Total expenses increased primarily due to higher staff related costs resulting from higher compensation expense, which was partially
offset by lower intangible amortization expense as certain intangibles were fully amortized as of December 31, 2009. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rates for the segment were 35% and 33% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to inclusion of income attributable to noncontrolling interest in
pre-tax operating earnings with no corresponding change in income taxes reported by us as the controlling interest. 
 Principal International Segment  
 Principal International Trends  
        Our Principal International businesses focus on countries with favorable demographics and growing long-term savings and defined
contribution markets. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution
pension plans, annuities and mutual funds to businesses and individuals. In some of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with institutional asset management and life
insurance accumulation products. 
        We
have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start-ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our
strategy of long-term growth and profitability. 
 Principal International Segment Summary Financial Data  
        AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as AUM is the base by which we can generate local currency profits. Net
customer cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of local currency AUM growth. Net customer cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance
reflects the investment returns on our underlying AUM. The percentage growth or decline in the earnings of our Principal International segment will generally track with the percentage growth or
decline in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and/or product mix. Our financial results are also impacted by fluctuations of the foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for the
countries in which we have business. AUM of our foreign subsidiaries is translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the end of the reporting period using the spot foreign exchange rates. Revenue and
expenses for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the average foreign exchange rates. 
        The
following table presents the Principal International segment AUM rollforward for the years indicated: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in billions)
 


 AUM, beginning of period
 
 $
45.8
 
 $
34.6
 
 $
23.1
 


 Net cash flow
 
 
 5.5
 
 
 4.7
 
 
 3.2
 


 Investment performance
 
 
 3.5
 
 
 4.1
 
 
 4.0
 


 Operations acquired (1)
 
 
 3.1
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 —
 


 Effect of exchange rates
 
 
 (4.8
)
 
 1.9
 
 
 4.5
 


 Other
 
 
 (0.3
)
 
 (0.2
)
 
 (0.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 AUM, end of period
 
 $
52.8
 
 $
45.8
 
 $
34.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Reflects
the acquisition of HSBC AFORE in Mexico in August 2011. 

49




 










Table of Contents 
        The following table presents certain summary financial data of the Principal International segment for the years indicated: 

























 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 
Increase (decrease) 
 


 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
2010 vs. 2009 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
264.5
 
 $
255.2
 
 $
239.1
 
 $
9.3
 
 $
16.1
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 168.5
 
 
 147.7
 
 
 116.0
 
 
 20.8
 
 
 31.7
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 476.5
 
 
 377.0
 
 
 207.0
 
 
 99.5
 
 
 170.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating revenues
 
 
 909.5
 
 
 779.9
 
 
 562.1
 
 
 129.6
 
 
 217.8
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 583.1
 
 
 497.2
 
 
 327.6
 
 
 85.9
 
 
 169.6
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 168.6
 
 
 145.1
 
 
 115.2
 
 
 23.5
 
 
 29.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 751.7
 
 
 642.3
 
 
 442.8
 
 
 109.4
 
 
 199.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating earnings before income taxes
 
 
 157.8
 
 
 137.6
 
 
 119.3
 
 
 20.2
 
 
 18.3
 


 Income taxes (benefits)
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 (0.4
)
 
 0.5
 
 
 4.4
 
 
 (0.9
)


 Operating earnings (losses) attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 1.1
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 (1.3
)
 
 1.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating earnings
 
 $
154.0
 
 $
136.9
 
 $
118.9
 
 $
17.1
 
 $
18.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010  

 Operating Earnings  

        Operating earnings increased primarily due to higher fees driven by higher average AUM as a result of net customer cash flows, market
performance and the HSBC AFORE acquisition; the strengthening of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar and higher earnings in our equity method investment in Brazil despite a reduction
in the economic interest during 2Q 2010. 

 Operating Revenues  

        Premiums in Chile increased $9.6 million primarily due to the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar, which
was partially offset by lower sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. 
        Fees
and other revenues increased primarily due to higher investment management fees driven by higher average AUM in Mexico as a result of the HSBC AFORE acquisition. 
        Net
investment income increased primarily due to higher inflation-based investment returns on average invested assets and cash as a result of higher inflation in Chile, the strengthening
of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar and higher earnings in our equity method investment in Brazil despite a reduction in the economic interest during 2Q 2010. 

 Total Expenses  

        Benefits, claims and settlement expenses in Chile increased $87.7 million primarily due to higher inflation-based interest
crediting rates to customers and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. 
        Operating
expenses increased primarily due to expenses related to the HSBC AFORE acquisition in Mexico, higher compensation expenses across the segment and the strengthening of the Latin
American currencies against the U.S. dollar. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rates for the segment were 3% and 0% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The
effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the presentation of taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments. Specifically, our
share of earnings generated from equity method investments, net of foreign taxes incurred, are reported within net investment income whereas any residual U.S. tax expense or benefit related to equity
method investments is reported in income taxes. Lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions also contributed to the lower effective income tax rates. 
 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009  

 Operating Earnings  

        Operating earnings increased primarily due to the strengthening of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar, higher
investment returns on assets not backing segment insurance products as a result of inflation in Chile during 2010 compared to deflation in 2009 and higher fee revenues driven by higher
average AUM as a result of net customer cash flows and market performance. These increases were partially offset by 2009 expense savings initiatives to align with 
50



 
Table of Contents
2009
revenues and lower earnings in our equity method investment in Brazil as a result of the reduction in our economic interest. 

 Operating Revenues  

        Premiums in Chile increased $15.7 million primarily due to the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar, which
was partially offset by lower sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. 
        Fees
and other revenues in Mexico and Chile collectively increased $25.5 million primarily due to higher investment management fees driven by higher average AUM as a result of
local market performance and net customer cash flows. In addition, fees and other revenues increased due to the strengthening of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar. 
        Net
investment income in Chile increased $169.8 million primarily due to higher inflation-based investment returns on average invested assets and cash as a result of inflation in
2010 compared to deflation in 2009 and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. 

 Total Expenses  

        Benefits, claims and settlement expenses in Chile increased $166.8 million primarily due to higher inflation-based interest
crediting rates to customers and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. 
        Operating
expenses increased primarily due to 2009 expense savings initiatives to align with 2009 revenues, higher DPAC amortization resulting from net unlocking and true-up
adjustments in Mexico and the strengthening of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rate for the segment was 0% for both the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The effective income
tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the presentation of taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments. Specifically, our share of earnings
generated from equity method investments, net of foreign taxes incurred, are reported within net investment income whereas any residual U.S. tax expense or benefit related to equity method investments
is reported in income taxes. Lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions also contributed to the lower effective income tax rate. 
 U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment  
 Individual Life Insurance Trends  
        Our life insurance premiums are influenced by both economic and industry trends. In addition, we continue to shift our marketing
emphasis to universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Due to this shift in marketing emphasis, premiums related to our traditional life insurance products have
declined, while fee revenues from our universal and variable universal life insurance products have grown. 
        The
following table provides a summary of our individual universal and variable universal life insurance fee revenues and our individual traditional life insurance premiums for the years
indicated: 
















For the year ended 
 
Universal and
variable universal life
insurance
fee revenues 
 
Traditional
life insurance
premiums 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 December 31, 2011 (1)
 
 $
515.9
 
$
502.5
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
382.5
 
 
517.9
 


 December 31, 2009
 
 
354.4
 
 
557.3
 








(1)Includes
$48.5 million of fee revenues due to the unlocking of unearned revenue resulting from integrated model changes in our individual life
insurance business. 

 Specialty Benefits Insurance Trends  
        Premium and fee growth for the individual disability line of our specialty benefits insurance business was driven by solid sales and
retention. The group lines experienced a decline between 2009 and 2010 due to decreases in membership of existing employer customers and slightly lower sales. This changed, however, between 2010 and
2011 due to strong sales, increased membership of existing employer customers and stable lapse rates. 
51



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table provides a summary of our specialty benefits insurance premium and fees for the years indicated: 

























 
 
Premium and fees 
 


For the year ended 
 
Group dental and
vision insurance 
 
Group life
insurance 
 
Group
disability
insurance 
 
Individual
disability
insurance 
 
Wellness (1) 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 December 31, 2011
 
 $
558.9
 
 $
319.1
 
 $
274.6
 
 $
216.3
 
 $
8.3
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
 518.9
 
 
 315.0
 
 
 265.6
 
 
 196.5
 
 
 —
 


 December 31, 2009
 
 
 539.9
 
 
 333.2
 
 
 290.8
 
 
 181.6
 
 
 —
 








(1)After
making the decision to exit the group medical insurance business, wellness became part of the specialty benefits division starting January 1,
2011. 

 U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment Summary Financial Data  
        There are several key indicators for earnings growth in our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment. The ability of our distribution channels
to generate new sales and retain existing business drives growth in our block of business, premium revenue and fee revenues. Our earnings growth also depends on our ability to price our products at a
level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products. Factors impacting pricing decisions include competitive
conditions, persistency, our ability to assess and manage trends in mortality and morbidity and our ability to manage operating expenses. 
        The
following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment for the years indicated: 

























 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 
Increase (decrease) 
 


 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
2010 vs. 2009 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
1,724.0
 
 $
1,685.7
 
 $
1,776.6
 
 $
38.3
 
 $
(90.9
)


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 570.7
 
 
 422.7
 
 
 399.2
 
 
 148.0
 
 
 23.5
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 689.7
 
 
 666.7
 
 
 636.8
 
 
 23.0
 
 
 29.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating revenues
 
 
 2,984.4
 
 
 2,775.1
 
 
 2,812.6
 
 
 209.3
 
 
 (37.5
)


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 1,549.5
 
 
 1,718.0
 
 
 1,651.2
 
 
 (168.5
)
 
 66.8
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 207.6
 
 
 218.4
 
 
 239.4
 
 
 (10.8
)
 
 (21.0
)


 Operating expenses
 
 
 909.8
 
 
 553.5
 
 
 620.1
 
 
 356.3
 
 
 (66.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 2,666.9
 
 
 2,489.9
 
 
 2,510.7
 
 
 177.0
 
 
 (20.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating earnings before income taxes
 
 
 317.5
 
 
 285.2
 
 
 301.9
 
 
 32.3
 
 
 (16.7
)


 Income taxes
 
 
 101.6
 
 
 91.5
 
 
 97.8
 
 
 10.1
 
 
 (6.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating earnings
 
 $
215.9
 
 $
193.7
 
 $
204.1
 
 $
22.2
 
 $
(10.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010  

 Operating Earnings  

        Operating earnings increased due to lowering our long-term interest rate assumptions in the prior period in our individual life
insurance business, which impacted reserves, DPAC and other actuarial balances and growth in our specialty benefits, universal life and variable universal life lines of business. 

 Operating Revenues  

        Premiums increased $69.9 million in our specialty benefits insurance business due to strong sales, stabilizing existing case
membership and improved lapse rates. Premiums decreased $31.6 million in our individual life insurance business primarily due to the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of
traditional life insurance business. 
        Fees
and other revenues increased $136.8 million in our individual life insurance business due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business and
the unlocking of unearned revenue associated with integrated model changes. 

 Total Expenses  

        Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $219.1 million in our individual life insurance business primarily due to
integrated model changes in the current period and lowering our long-term interest rate assumptions in the prior period. This was partially offset by a $50.6 million increase resulting from
continued growth in our specialty benefits insurance business. 
52



 
Table of Contents
        Operating
expenses increased due to higher DPAC amortization in our individual life insurance business from the unlocking associated with integrated model changes in the current period
and lower DPAC amortization in the prior period due to lowering our long-term interest rate assumptions, which had partially offsetting impacts on fee revenues and benefit expense. In addition,
operating expenses increased due to growth in our specialty benefits, universal life and variable universal life lines of business. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rate for the segment was 32% for both the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The effective income
tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate as a result of the interest exclusion from taxable income and income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. 
 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009  

 Operating Earnings  

        Operating earnings decreased primarily due to lowering our long-term interest rate assumptions, which impacted reserves, DPAC and other
actuarial balances in our individual life insurance business. 

 Operating Revenues  

        Premiums decreased $47.3 million in our specialty benefits insurance business due to a decrease in membership driven by lapses
exceeding sales during the first half of the year and a slight decline in existing-case covered lives. Premiums decreased $43.6 million in our individual life insurance business primarily due
to the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business. 
        Fees
and other revenues increased $25.7 million in our individual life insurance business due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business. 
        Net
investment income increased primarily due to an increase in average annualized investment yields and, to a lesser extent, an increase in average invested assets. 

 Total Expenses  

        Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $96.2 million in our individual life insurance business as a result of higher
gross claims and larger increases in reserves. While a substantial amount of the higher gross claims are offset by the benefit of reinsurance, under U.S. GAAP we defer much of the benefit of
reinsurance, which causes an increase in reported net benefits in the current period and lower DPAC amortization. Partially offsetting this increase in benefits, claims and settlement expenses was a
decrease of $29.4 million in our specialty benefits insurance business due to a decrease in membership. 
        Dividends
to policyholders decreased $21.0 million, primarily from updating the policyholder dividend scale to reflect the experience of the Closed Block. 
        Operating
expenses decreased $55.4 million in our individual life insurance business primarily related to lower DPAC amortization, which was offset by a corresponding increase in
gross claims. 

 Income Taxes  

        The effective income tax rate for the segment was 32% for both the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The effective income
tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate as a result of the interest exclusion from taxable income and income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. 
53



 
Table of Contents
 Corporate Segment  
 Corporate Segment Summary Financial Data  
        The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate segment for the years indicated: 

























 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 
Increase (decrease) 
 


 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
2010 vs. 2009 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating revenues
 
 $
(189.2
)
 $
(118.9
)
 $
(143.4
)
 $
(70.3
)
 $
24.5
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 (5.2
)
 
 38.0
 
 
 33.4
 
 
 (43.2
)
 
 4.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating losses before income taxes and preferred stock dividends
 
 
 (184.0
)
 
 (156.9
)
 
 (176.8
)
 
 (27.1
)
 
 19.9
 


 Income tax benefits
 
 
 (72.9
)
 
 (61.4
)
 
 (71.4
)
 
 (11.5
)
 
 10.0
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Operating earnings (losses) attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 2.8
 
 
 0.2
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 2.6
 
 
 0.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating losses
 
 $
(146.9
)
 $
(128.7
)
 $
(138.3
)
 $
(18.2
)
 $
9.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010  

 Operating Losses  

        Operating losses increased due to a decrease in earnings on average invested assets for the segment, representing capital that has not
been allocated to any other segment. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in corporate overhead expenses needed to support the exited group medical insurance business and the 2011
transition of wellness and non-medical fee-for-service claim administration businesses, which had operating losses in 2010, from this segment to the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment. 
 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009  

 Operating Losses  

        Operating losses decreased due to an increase in earnings on average invested assets for the segment, representing capital that has not
been allocated to any other segment. This decrease was partially offset by higher interest expense on corporate debt. 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  
        Liquidity and capital resources represent the overall strength of a company and its ability to generate strong cash flows, borrow funds
at a competitive rate and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs. Our legal entity structure has an impact on our ability to meet cash flow needs as an organization. Following is a
simplified organizational structure. 



 Liquidity  
        Our liquidity requirements have been and will continue to be met by funds from consolidated operations as well as the issuance of
commercial paper, common stock, debt or other capital securities and borrowings from credit facilities. We believe that cash flows from these sources are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity
requirements of our operations, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. 
        We
maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed to be adequate to meet anticipated short-term and
long-term payment obligations. We will continue our prudent capital management practice of regularly exploring options available to us to maximize capital flexibility, including accessing the capital
markets and careful attention to and management of expenses. 
54




 










Table of Contents 
        Our liquidity is supported by a portfolio of U.S. government and agency and residential pass-through government-backed securities, of which we held
$4.5 billion as of December 31, 2011, that may be utilized to bolster our liquidity position, as collateral for secured borrowing transactions with various third parties or by disposing
of the securities in the open market if needed. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $11.3 billion, or 98%, of our institutional guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements
cannot be redeemed by contractholders prior to maturity. Our life insurance and annuity liabilities contain provisions limiting early surrenders. 
        As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had short-term credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $725.0 million and
$719.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had $105.2 million and $107.9 million, respectively, of outstanding borrowings related to our credit
facilities, with $24.9 million of assets pledged as support as of December 31, 2011. None of these credit arrangements, other than our commercial paper back-stop facility, are committed
facilities. Due to the financial strength and the strong relationships we have with these providers, as well as the small size of these facilities, we are comfortable that there is a very low risk
that the financial institutions would not be able to fund these facilities. As of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, our credit facilities included a $579.0 million commercial paper
program, of which $50.0 million was outstanding as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010. Our commercial paper program has a back-stop facility to provide 100% support for our commercial
paper program, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The back-stop facility is a five year facility that matures in June 2012. The facility is supported
by fourteen banks, most if not all of which have other relationships with us. We have no reason to believe that our current providers would be unable or unwilling to fund the facility if necessary. We
are in the process of renewing the facility. It will continue to provide 100% support for our commercial paper program. 
        The Holding Companies: Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Financial Services, Inc.    The principal sources of funds
available to our parent
holding company, PFG, to meet its obligations, including the payments of dividends on common stock, debt service and the repurchase of stock, are dividends from subsidiaries as well as its ability to
borrow funds at competitive rates and raise capital to meet operating and growth needs. Dividends from Principal Life, our primary subsidiary, are limited by Iowa law. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life
may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay stockholder
dividends or make any other distribution if such distributions would exceed certain statutory limitations. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for distributions in excess
of these limits. In general, the current statutory limitations are the greater of (i) 10% of Principal Life's statutory policyholder surplus as of the previous year-end or (ii) the
statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Based on these limitations, Principal Life could distribute approximately $507.7 million in 2012. 
        Principal
Life could have paid approximately $509.7 million in statutory dividends in 2011 based on its 2010 statutory financial results without being subject to the limitations
on payment of stockholder dividends. Principal Life distributed paid-in and contributed surplus in the amount of $500.0 million to its parent company in 2011, which counts toward
Principal Life's distribution capacity for the year. In addition, Principal Life requested and received permission from the Commissioner to pay an extraordinary dividend in the amount of
$250.0 million, which was paid by Principal Life to its parent in 2011. 
        Principal
Life could have paid approximately $608.7 million in statutory dividends in 2010 based on its 2009 statutory financial results without being subject to the limitations
on payment of stockholder dividends. No dividends were paid as of December 31, 2010; however, on June 21, 2010, Principal Life distributed paid-in and contributed surplus in
the amount of $300.0 million to its parent company. 
        Principal
Life could have paid approximately $651.3 million in statutory dividends in 2009 based on its 2008 statutory financial results without being subject to the limitations
on payment of stockholder dividends. On March 27, 2009, a $645.0 million ordinary dividend was paid by Principal Life to its parent company from internal sources of liquidity. Following
our second quarter issuance of debt and equity, on May 20, 2009, a $500.0 million capital contribution was made to Principal Life from its parent company. An additional
$300.0 million capital contribution was made to Principal Life from its parent company on December 31, 2009. 
        Operations.    Our primary consolidated cash flow sources are premiums from insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset
management fee
revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments and proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders
and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries,
payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short-term debt and long-term debt. Our investment strategies are generally intended
to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. For a discussion of our investment objectives, strategies and a discussion of duration matching, see "Investments" as
well as Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk." 
         Cash Flows.    Activity, as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, provides relevant information regarding our
sources and uses of cash.
The following discussion of our operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows excludes cash flows attributable to the separate accounts. 
55



 
Table of Contents
        Net
cash provided by operating activities was $ 2,713.3 million, $2,791.7 million and $2,243.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. As an insurance business, we typically generate positive cash flows from operating activities, as premiums collected from our insurance products and income received from our investments
exceed policy acquisition costs, benefits paid, redemptions and operating expenses. These positive cash flows are then invested to support the obligations of our insurance products and required
capital supporting these products. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by the timing of premiums, fees, and investment income received and expenses paid. The decrease in cash
provided by operating activities in 2011 compared to 2010 was the result of a decrease in premiums and other consideration received, partially offset by a decrease in claims, due to our decision to
exit the group medical insurance business. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was also offset by fluctuations in receivables and payables associated with the timing of settlement.
The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was the result of increased cash flows from trading securities as well as an increase in fees and other revenue received. 
        Net
cash used in investing activities was $202.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $27.5 million
and $1,026.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to
purchases of interest in subsidiaries in 2011. The decrease in cash provided by investing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of investments. 
        Net
cash used in financing activities was $1,554.7 million, $3,182.2 million and $3,637.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. The decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2011 compared to 2010 is primarily due to a decrease in net withdrawals of Principal Life general account investment contracts,
partially offset by an increase in cash used to repurchase treasury stock in 2011. The decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily due to a decrease in net
withdrawals of Principal Life general account investment contracts. Net withdrawals were higher in 2009 primarily due to our decision to scale back our investment only business. Also contributing to
the decrease in cash used in financing activities was net proceeds from short-term debt in 2010 compared to net repayments of short-term debt in 2009. These increases were partially offset by cash
received from the issuance of common stock and long-term debt in 2009 with no corresponding activity in 2010. 
         Shelf Registration.    We currently have an effective shelf registration which allows us the ability to issue, in unlimited amounts,
 unsecured senior
debt securities or subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debt, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depository shares, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of PFG, trust
preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts and guarantees by PFG of these trust preferred securities. Our wholly owned subsidiary, PFS, may guarantee, fully and unconditionally or otherwise, our
obligations with respect to any non-convertible securities, other than common stock, described in the shelf registration. In May 2009, we issued common stock and senior debt securities under the shelf
registration. For information on senior notes issued from our shelf registration, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
Note 9, Debt." 
         Short-Term Debt and Long-Term Debt.    For debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes
to Consolidated
Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt." 
         Stockholders' Equity.    Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $25.9 million, $20.6 million and
$1,123.0 million in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        The
following table summarizes our return of capital to common stockholders. 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Dividends to stockholders
 
 $
213.7
 
 $
176.2
 
 $
159.5
 


 Repurchase of common stock
 
 
 556.4
 
 
 2.6
 
 
 4.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total cash returned to stockholders
 
 $
770.1
 
 $
178.8
 
 $
163.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Number of shares repurchased
 
 
 21.1
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 0.3
 




        For additional stockholders' equity information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Note 13, Stockholders' Equity." 
56



 
Table of Contents
 Capitalization  
        The following table summarizes our capital structure. 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Debt:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Short-term debt
 
 $
105.2
 
 $
107.9
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
 1,564.8
 
 
 1,583.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total debt
 
 
 1,670.0
 
 
 1,691.6
 


 Stockholders' equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 9,435.1
 
 
 9,455.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total capitalization excluding accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 $
11,105.1
 
 $
11,147.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Debt to equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 18
%
 
 18
%


 Debt to capitalization excluding accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 15
%
 
 15
%




        As of December 31, 2011, we had $576.2 million of excess capital, consisting of cash and highly liquid assets in the holding
companies available for debt maturities, interest and preferred dividend expenses and other holding company obligations. We continue to maintain sufficient capital levels in Principal Life based on
our current financial strength ratings. 
 Contractual Obligations  
        The following table presents payments due by period for long-term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011. 

























 
 
 
 
Payments due in year ending 
 


Contractual
Obligations (1) 
 
Total
Payments 
 
2012 
 
2013 - 2014 
 
2015 - 2016 
 
2017 and
thereafter 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Contractholder funds (2)
 
 $
64,345.9
 
 $
6,040.6
 
 $
12,208.4
 
 $
7,046.5
 
 $
39,050.4
 


 Future policy benefits and claims (3)
 
 
 34,492.5
 
 
 2,016.6
 
 
 3,101.7
 
 
 2,918.1
 
 
 26,456.1
 


 Long-term debt (4)
 
 
 1,564.8
 
 
 2.7
 
 
 415.9
 
 
 95.1
 
 
 1,051.1
 


 Certificates of deposit (5)
 
 
 909.9
 
 
 647.6
 
 
 171.0
 
 
 91.0
 
 
 0.3
 


 Other long-term liabilities (6)
 
 
 1,803.9
 
 
 1,514.4
 
 
 82.7
 
 
 64.7
 
 
 142.1
 


 Capital leases
 
 
 11.4
 
 
 4.3
 
 
 6.6
 
 
 0.5
 
 
 —
 


 Long-term debt interest
 
 
 1,486.6
 
 
 114.8
 
 
 206.8
 
 
 158.2
 
 
 1,006.8
 


 Operating leases (7)
 
 
 208.0
 
 
 45.8
 
 
 66.3
 
 
 34.1
 
 
 61.8
 


 Purchase obligations (8)
 
 
 573.8
 
 
 543.5
 
 
 18.7
 
 
 11.6
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total contractual obligations
 
 $
105,396.8
 
 $
10,930.3
 
 $
16,278.1
 
 $
10,419.8
 
 $
67,768.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Excludes
short-term liabilities, other policyholder funds, taxes and short-term debt as these are not long-term and/or not contractual in nature. Also
excludes obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans as we do not anticipate contributions will be needed to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our
qualified pension plan. In addition, separate account liabilities are excluded. Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of funds that are separately administered by us. Generally,
the separate account contract owner, rather than us, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of
any other business of ours. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statements of
operations. The separate account obligations will be fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets.
(2)Includes
GICs, funding agreements, individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance and other investment-type contracts. See Item 8. "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 8, Insurance Liabilities" for additional information.  

Amounts
included in the contractholder funds line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the
corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2011. The liability amount in our consolidated statements of financial position
reflects either the account value (in the case of individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance and GICs) or the par value plus accrued interest and other adjustments (in the case of funding
agreements and other investment contracts).  
(3)Amounts
included in the future policy benefits and claims line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash
outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2011. The liability amount
in our consolidated statements of financial position reflects estimated cash payments to policyholders, reductions for expected future premiums, assumptions with regard to the timing of cash payments
and discounting for interest.
(4)For
long-term debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9,
Debt."
(5)Amounts
included in the certificates of deposit line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made, including expected interest payments. Certificates of
deposit are reported as other liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial position. 

57



 
Table of Contents


(6)Other
long-term liabilities include other liabilities reflected in the consolidated statements of financial position that are contractual, non-cancelable
and long-term in nature. The total payments primarily relate to checking and savings deposits as well as premium associated with purchased option contracts where payments are made over the life of the
contract. This line item excludes accruals, short-term items and items not contractual in nature.
(7)As
a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment, office furniture and office equipment under various operating leases.
(8)Purchase
obligations include material contracts where we have a non-cancelable commitment to purchase goods and services in addition to commitments to
originate loans and purchase investments. 

 Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding  
        We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S. employees and certain agents. See Item 8.
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11, Employee and Agent Benefits" for a complete discussion of these plans and their effect on the
consolidated financial statements. 
        We
report the net funded status of our pension and other postretirement plans in the consolidated statements of financial position. The net funded status represents the differences
between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and other postretirement plans. The measurement of the net funded status can vary based upon the
fluctuations in the fair value of the plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for the plans as discussed below. The net underfunded status of the pension and other postretirement benefit
obligation was $427.9 million pre-tax and $207.0 million pre-tax as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Nonqualified pension plan assets are not included as part of the
funding status mentioned above. The nonqualified pension plan assets are held in Rabbi trusts for the benefit of all nonqualified plan participants. The assets held in a Rabbi trust are available to
satisfy the claims of general creditors only in the event of bankruptcy. Therefore, these assets are
fully consolidated in our consolidated statements of financial position and are not reflected in our funded status as they do not qualify as plan assets under U.S. GAAP. The market value of
assets held in these trusts was $281.2 million and $265.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        Our
funding policy for the qualified pension plan is to fund the plan annually in an amount at least equal to the minimum annual contributions required under ERISA and, generally, not
greater than the maximum amount that can be deducted for federal income tax purposes. We do not anticipate contributions will be needed to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our
qualified pension plan. At this time, it is too early to estimate the amount that may be contributed, but it is possible that we may fund the plans in 2012 in the range of
$75-$125 million. This includes funding for both our qualified and nonqualified pension plans. We may contribute to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2012 pending further
analysis. 
 Contractual Commitments  
        In connection with our banking business, we make additional commitments to extend credit, which are agreements to lend to a customer as
long as there is no violation of any conditions established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. A majority
of these commitments are lines of credit and are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash funding requirements. We
evaluate each customer's creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The total commitments to fund loans were $56.3 million as of December 31, 2011. 
        We
have made commitments to fund certain limited partnerships in which we are a limited partner. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of unfunded commitments was
$37.0 million. We are only required to fund additional equity under these commitments when called upon to do so by the general partner; therefore, these commitments are not liabilities on our
consolidated statements of financial position. 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  
        Variable Interest Entities.    We have relationships with various types of special purpose entities and other entities where we have
a variable interest
as described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3, Variable Interest Entities." We have made commitments to fund
certain limited partnerships, as previously discussed in "Contractual Commitments", some of which are classified as unconsolidated variable interest entities ("VIEs"). 
         Guarantees and Indemnifications.    For guarantee and indemnification information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data,
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications" under the caption, "Guarantees and Indemnifications." 
 Financial Strength Rating and Credit Ratings  
        Our ratings are influenced by the relative ratings of our peers/competitors as well as many other factors including our operating and
financial performance, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability management, overall portfolio mix, financial leverage (i.e., debt), risk exposures, operating leverage, ratings and other factors. 
        A.M. Best
Company, Inc., Fitch Rating Ltd., Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's publish financial strength ratings on U.S. life insurance companies that are
indicators of an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. These rating agencies also assign credit ratings on non-life insurance entities, such as PFG and PFS.
Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner, and are important factors in overall funding profile and ability to access external
capital. Such ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. 
58




 










Table of Contents 
        A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's and Standard & Poor's maintain a stable outlook on the U.S. life insurance sector. However, these rating agencies note
that current challenges for the industry such as global sovereign uncertainty, equity market volatility, impact of sustained low interest rates, weakness in the real estate market, lingering
unemployment and weak consumer confidence are putting pressure on the stable outlook. 
        The
financial strength ratings of Principal Life and Principal National Life Insurance Company were affirmed with no change in outlook by Moody's in August 2011 and by A.M. Best
and S&P in December 2011. In June 2011, Fitch affirmed the ratings of Principal Life and Principal National Life Insurance Company and changed the outlook to stable from negative. 
        The
following table summarizes our significant financial strength and debt ratings from the major independent rating organizations. The debt ratings shown are indicative ratings.
Outstanding issuances are rated the same as indicative ratings unless otherwise noted. Actual ratings can differ from indicative ratings based on contractual terms. 

















 
 
A.M. Best 
 
Fitch 
 
Standard & Poor's 
 
Moody's 


 Principal Financial Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Senior Unsecured Debt (1)
 
 
 
 
 
BBB
 
Baa1


 Preferred Stock (2)
 
 
 
 
 
BB+
 
Baa3


 Principal Financial Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Senior Unsecured Debt
 
 
 
 
 
BBB
 
 


 Commercial Paper
 
 
 
 
 
A-2
 
P-2


 Principal Life Insurance Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Insurer Financial Strength
 
A+
 
AA-
 
A
 
Aa3


 Enterprise Risk Management Rating
 
 
 
 
 
Strong
 
 


 Principal National Life Insurance Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Insurer Financial Strength
 
A+
 
AA-
 
A
 
Aa3








(1)Moody's
has rated Principal Financial Group's senior debt issuance "A3"
(2)S&P
has rated Principal Financial Group's preferred stock issuance "BB" 

 Impacts of Income Taxes  
        For income tax information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes." 
 Fair Value Measurement  
        Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels for disclosure
purposes. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority (Level 1) to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and gives the lowest priority (Level 3) to
unobservable inputs. An asset or liability's classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. See Item 8. "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements" for further details, including a reconciliation of changes in Level 3 fair value
measurements. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, 41% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 55% were Level 2 and 4% were Level 3. Excluding separate account assets as of
December 31, 2011, 3% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 96% were Level 2 and 1% were Level 3. 
        As
of December 31, 2010, 43% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 53% were Level 2 and 4% were Level 3. Excluding separate account assets as of
December 31, 2010, 2% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 96% were Level 2 and 2% were Level 3. 
 Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements  
        Net assets (liabilities) measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as of
December 31, 2011, were $4,647.3 million as compared to $4,691.4 million as of December 31, 2010. The slight net decrease was primarily due to net transfers out of
Level 3 and into Level 2 offset in part by unrealized gains on real estate separate account assets. The transfers included certain private corporate bonds we are now able to price using
a matrix valuation approach as well as certain separate account assets for which we are now able to obtain pricing from a recognized third party pricing vendor. 
        Net
assets (liabilities) measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as of December 31, 2010, were $4,691.4 million
as compared to $5,276.5 million as of December 31, 2009. The decrease is primarily related to fixed maturities, available-for-sale and separate account assets. The decrease in fixed
maturities, available-for-sale is primarily the result of our obtaining prices from third party pricing vendors versus relying on broker quotes or internal pricing models for certain structured
securities, resulting in the transfer of those assets out of Level 3 to Level 2. Another large component of the decrease is the result of sales and settlements of certain corporate and
structured securities. Additionally, as a result of our implementation of new authoritative guidance related to the 
59



 
Table of Contents
accounting
for embedded credit derivatives effective July 1, 2010, within the scope of the guidance we reclassified certain securities previously included in fixed maturities,
available-for-sale, to fixed maturities, trading. The decrease in separate account assets is primarily a result of real estate sales. These decreases are partially offset by a net increase in fair
value of Level 3 instruments related to the implementation of new authoritative guidance related to the accounting for VIEs effective January 1, 2010. As a result of the new guidance,
certain previously unconsolidated VIEs were consolidated and certain previously consolidated VIEs were deconsolidated. The fair value of Level 3 assets and liabilities of the newly consolidated
and deconsolidated VIEs is primarily included in the net change for fixed maturities, trading; other investments; derivative liabilities and other liabilities. 
 Investments  
        We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2011, of $148.3 billion, of which $66.2 billion were invested
assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on
assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. 
 Overall Composition of Invested Assets  
        Invested assets as of December 31, 2011, were predominantly high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual
credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of
invested assets are fixed maturities and commercial mortgage loans. The remainder is invested in other
investments, residential mortgage loans, real estate and equity securities. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Carrying amount 
 
% of total 
 
Carrying amount 
 
% of total 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Public
 
 $
35,350.3
 
 
 53
%
 $
35,426.8
 
 
 54
%


 Private
 
 
 14,628.1
 
 
 22
 
 
 14,329.8
 
 
 22
 


 Equity securities
 
 
 481.9
 
 
 1
 
 
 486.8
 
 
 1
 


 Mortgage loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 9,396.6
 
 
 14
 
 
 9,609.0
 
 
 14
 


 Residential
 
 
 1,330.6
 
 
 2
 
 
 1,516.1
 
 
 2
 


 Real estate held for sale
 
 
 44.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 51.9
 
 
 —
 


 Real estate held for investment
 
 
 1,048.1
 
 
 2
 
 
 1,011.6
 
 
 2
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 885.1
 
 
 1
 
 
 903.9
 
 
 1
 


 Other investments
 
 
 2,988.0
 
 
 5
 
 
 2,641.6
 
 
 4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total invested assets
 
 
 66,153.5
 
 
 100
%
 
 65,977.5
 
 
 100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 2,833.9
 
 
 
 
 
 1,877.4
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total invested assets and cash
 
 $
68,987.4
 
 
 
 
 $
67,854.9
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Investment Results  
 Net Investment Income  
        The following table presents the yield and investment income, excluding net realized capital gains and losses, for our invested assets
for the years indicated. We calculate annualized yields using a simple average of asset classes at the beginning and end of the reporting period. The yields for fixed maturities and equity securities
are calculated using amortized cost and cost, respectively. All other yields are calculated using carrying amounts. 








































 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 
Increase (decrease) 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
2010 vs. 2009 
 


 
 
Yield 
 
Amount 
 
Yield 
 
Amount 
 
Yield 
 
Amount 
 
Yield 
 
Amount 
 
Yield 
 
Amount 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities
 
 
 5.5
%
 $
2,660.9
 
 
 5.7
%
 $
2,794.7
 
 
 5.6
%
 $
2,717.2
 
 
 (0.2
)%
 $
(133.8
)
 
 0.1
%
 $
77.5
 


 Equity securities
 
 
 3.1
 
 
 14.9
 
 
 3.0
 
 
 14.2
 
 
 4.2
 
 
 19.3
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 (1.2
)
 
 (5.1
)


 Mortgage loans — commercial
 
 
 5.9
 
 
 558.7
 
 
 6.0
 
 
 589.1
 
 
 5.8
 
 
 617.7
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 (30.4
)
 
 0.2
 
 
 (28.6
)


 Mortgage loans — residential
 
 
 6.4
 
 
 90.5
 
 
 5.2
 
 
 84.2
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 71.2
 
 
 1.2
 
 
 6.3
 
 
 1.2
 
 
 13.0
 


 Real estate
 
 
 6.9
 
 
 74.2
 
 
 5.5
 
 
 57.5
 
 
 3.7
 
 
 35.9
 
 
 1.4
 
 
 16.7
 
 
 1.8
 
 
 21.6
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 6.5
 
 
 58.2
 
 
 6.7
 
 
 60.9
 
 
 6.9
 
 
 62.0
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 (2.7
)
 
 (0.2
)
 
 (1.1
)


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 0.4
 
 
 8.5
 
 
 0.4
 
 
 7.2
 
 
 0.5
 
 
 13.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 1.3
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 (5.8
)


 Other investments
 
 
 (0.3
)
 
 (7.1
)
 
 (0.9
)
 
 (21.8
)
 
 (0.9
)
 
 (24.0
)
 
 0.6
 
 
 14.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 2.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total before investment expenses
 
 
 5.1
 
 
 3,458.8
 
 
 5.3
 
 
 3,586.0
 
 
 5.1
 
 
 3,512.3
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 (127.2
)
 
 0.2
 
 
 73.7
 


 Investment expenses
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 (83.0
)
 
 (0.1
)
 
 (89.5
)
 
 (0.1
)
 
 (111.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 6.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 22.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 5.0
%
 $
3,375.8
 
 
 5.2
%
 $
3,496.5
 
 
 5.0
%
 $
3,400.8
 
 
 (0.2
)%
 $
(120.7
)
 
 0.2
%
 $
95.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




60




 










Table of Contents 
 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010  
        Net investment income decreased due to lower yields and a decrease in average invested assets and cash primarily due to our decision to
scale back our investment only business. These decreases were partially offset by higher inflation-based investment returns on average invested assets, most notably fixed maturities and other
investments, as a result of higher inflation in Chile and the strengthening of Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar. Further offsetting the decline in investment income were gains on
sales of development real estate properties. 
 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009  
        Net investment income increased primarily due to higher inflation-based investment returns on average invested assets, most notably
fixed maturities, related to inflation in Chile during 2010 versus deflation during 2009 and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. In addition, net investment income increased
due to gains on sales of equity real estate. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in average invested assets due to our decision to scale back our investment only business. 
 Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)  
        The following table presents the contributors to net realized capital gains and losses for our invested assets for the years indicated. 

























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increase (decrease) 
 


 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
2010 vs. 2009 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale — credit impairments (1)
 
 $
(184.0
)
 $
(229.0
)
 $
(372.6
)
 $
45.0
 
 $
143.6
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale — other
 
 
 1.9
 
 
 8.9
 
 
 52.9
 
 
 (7.0
)
 
 (44.0
)


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 (6.7
)
 
 17.5
 
 
 49.3
 
 
 (24.2
)
 
 (31.8
)


 Equity securities — credit impairments
 
 
 (3.8
)
 
 3.7
 
 
 (20.5
)
 
 (7.5
)
 
 24.2
 


 Derivatives and related hedge activities (2)
 
 
 (22.4
)
 
 30.8
 
 
 (11.5
)
 
 (53.2
)
 
 42.3
 


 Commercial mortgages
 
 
 (18.7
)
 
 (53.0
)
 
 (120.1
)
 
 34.3
 
 
 67.1
 


 Other gains
 
 
 111.4
 
 
 29.6
 
 
 24.2
 
 
 81.8
 
 
 5.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital losses
 
 $
(122.3
)
 $
(191.5
)
 $
(398.3
)
 $
69.2
 
 $
206.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Includes
credit impairments as well as losses on sales of fixed maturities to reduce credit risk, net of realized credit recoveries on the sale of
previously impaired securities. Credit gains on sales, excluding associated foreign currency fluctuations that are included in derivatives and related hedge activities, were a net gain of
$9.5 million, $15.0 million, and $57.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
(2)Includes
fixed maturities, available-for-sale impairment-related net gain of $0.1 million and net loss of $2.8 million for December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively. 

 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010  
        Net realized capital losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale — credit impairments decreased primarily due to
lower impairments on commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities as a result of improved market conditions. 
        Net
realized capital losses on fixed maturities, trading increased due to mark-to-market losses versus gains resulting from widening of credit spreads in 2011 and tightening of credit
spreads in 2010. 
        Net
realized capital losses on derivatives and related hedge activities increased due to losses versus gains on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, including credit
default swaps due to changes in credit spreads and currency forwards and currency swaps due to changes in exchange rates. 
        Net
realized capital losses on commercial mortgages decreased due to a lower valuation allowance provision in 2011 than in 2010. For additional information, see "U.S. Investment
Operations — Mortgage Loans — Commercial Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance." 
        Other
net realized capital gains increased due to a realized capital gain of $70.9 million in the second quarter of 2011 resulting from the sale of a portion of our interest in
Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc., which is accounted for on the equity method, and a $77.6 million decrease in losses related to the residential mortgage loan loss provision for our bank and
trust services business. In addition, other net realized capital gains in 2010 included an $80.1 million gain in the second quarter resulting from the signing of our Shareholders Agreement with
Banco pertaining to our Brasilprev joint venture. 
 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009  
        Net realized capital losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale — credit impairments decreased primarily due to
lower impairments on corporate securities as a result of improved market conditions and lower net credit losses on sales in 2010 relative to 2009 due to our decision to reduce exposure to BBB rated
securities in 2009, partially offset by 
61



 
Table of Contents
increased
impairments on commercial mortgage-backed securities. Net realized capital gains on fixed maturities, available-for-sale -other decreased due to lower gains on sales in 2010. 
        Net
realized capital gains on fixed maturities, trading decreased due to lower mark-to-market gains on these securities resulting from market liquidity impacts and larger credit spread
tightening in 2009 compared to 2010. 
        Net
realized capital gains on derivatives and related hedge activities increased due to decreased losses on the GMWB embedded derivatives resulting from changes in the spread reflecting
our own creditworthiness. These decreased losses were partially offset by lower gains from fair value hedge ineffectiveness, decreased gains on credit default swaps due to changes in credit spreads
and increased mark-to-market losses on interest rate swaps due to changes in interest rates. 
        Net
realized capital losses on commercial mortgages decreased due to a lower valuation allowance provision in 2010 than in 2009. For additional information, see "U.S. Investment
Operations — Mortgage Loans — Commercial Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance." 
        Other
net realized capital gains included an $80.1 million gain in the second quarter of 2010 resulting from the signing of our Shareholders Agreement with Banco pertaining to our
Brasilprev joint venture. This gain was offset by a $64.7 million increase in our residential mortgage loan loss provision for our bank and trust services business, which primarily related to
the continued deterioration in our home equity portfolio resulting from sustained economic stress. 
 U.S. Investment Operations  
        Of our invested assets, $61.0 billion were held by our U.S. operations as of December 31, 2011. Our U.S. invested assets
are managed primarily by our Principal Global Investors segment. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after-tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect
policyholders' benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing the credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be
redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to two primary sources of investment
risk:


•credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments
of principal and interest and 
•interest rate risk, relating to the market price and/or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield
curves. 

        Our
ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit
risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our Board of Directors, is responsible for establishing all investment policies and approving or
authorizing all investments, except the Executive Committee of the Board must approve any investment transaction exceeding $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2011, there were eleven
members on the Investment Committee, one of whom is a member of our Board of Directors. The remaining members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. 
        We
also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty
prior to maturity at the option of the issuer and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. We assess option risk in all
investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. 
        Our
Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturities we purchase. Teams of security
analysts, organized by industry, analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in RMBS, CMBS, ABS, municipals and below investment grade securities. Our analysts
monitor issuers held in the portfolio on a continuous basis with a formal review documented annually or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and
technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management
aggressiveness of the issuer. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. 
        Our
Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our
investments to determine whether we should re-rate them, employing the following criteria:


•material declines in the issuer's revenues or margins; 
•significant management or organizational changes; 
•significant uncertainty regarding the issuer's industry; 
•debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry-specific thresholds;  
•violation of financial covenants and 
•other business factors that relate to the issuer. 

62



 
Table of Contents
        A
dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our
commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the
underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and substantially all existing
loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. Our lending guidelines are typically 65% or less
loan-to-value ratio and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The following
table presents loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios for our brick and mortar commercial mortgages, excluding Principal Global Investors segment mortgages: 



















 
 
Weighted average loan-to-value ratio 
 
Debt service coverage ratio 


 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 


 New mortgages
 
 
 45
%
 
 44
%
 3.3x
 
 3.5x


 Entire mortgage portfolio
 
 
 60
%
 
 66
%
 2.0x
 
 1.8x




        Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In
addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable
crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk." 
 Overall Composition of U.S. Invested Assets  
        As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturities and commercial mortgage loans. The
remainder is invested in other investments, real estate, residential mortgage loans and equity securities. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following discussion
analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Carrying amount 
 
% of total 
 
Carrying amount 
 
% of total 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Public
 
 $
32,081.2
 
 
 53
%
 $
31,956.6
 
 
 53
%


 Private
 
 
 14,628.1
 
 
 24
 
 
 14,329.8
 
 
 24
 


 Equity securities
 
 
 395.9
 
 
 1
 
 
 424.1
 
 
 1
 


 Mortgage loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 9,386.0
 
 
 15
 
 
 9,599.6
 
 
 16
 


 Residential
 
 
 746.0
 
 
 1
 
 
 877.5
 
 
 1
 


 Real estate held for sale
 
 
 36.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 41.6
 
 
 —
 


 Real estate held for investment
 
 
 1,047.3
 
 
 2
 
 
 1,010.7
 
 
 2
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 861.6
 
 
 1
 
 
 879.7
 
 
 1
 


 Other investments
 
 
 1,783.5
 
 
 3
 
 
 1,486.3
 
 
 2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total invested assets
 
 
 60,966.2
 
 
 100
%
 
 60,605.9
 
 
 100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 2,741.7
 
 
 
 
 
 1,817.2
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total invested assets and cash
 
 $
63,707.9
 
 
 
 
 $
62,423.1
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Fixed Maturities  
        Fixed maturities consist of publicly traded and privately placed bonds, asset-backed securities, redeemable preferred stock and certain
nonredeemable preferred stock. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, were $9.1 billion and $8.7 billion, respectively, of securities subject
to certain holding periods and resale restrictions pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturities include trading portfolios that support investment strategies that
involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of fixed maturities. We held $279.1 million and $274.9 million of these trading securities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. 
63



 
Table of Contents
        Fixed
maturities were diversified by category of issuer, as shown in the following table for the periods indicated. 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Carrying amount 
 
% of total 
 
Carrying amount 
 
% of total 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 U.S. government and agencies
 
 $
1,004.7
 
 
 2
%
 $
929.1
 
 
 2
%


 States and political subdivisions
 
 
 3,041.1
 
 
 7
 
 
 2,826.9
 
 
 6
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 
 676.1
 
 
 1
 
 
 424.2
 
 
 1
 


 Corporate — public
 
 
 19,194.4
 
 
 41
 
 
 19,201.2
 
 
 41
 


 Corporate — private
 
 
 11,920.7
 
 
 26
 
 
 12,065.1
 
 
 26
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 
 3,421.3
 
 
 7
 
 
 3,379.5
 
 
 7
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 3,425.7
 
 
 7
 
 
 3,847.3
 
 
 9
 


 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 
 1,403.8
 
 
 3
 
 
 1,435.4
 
 
 3
 


 Asset-backed securities
 
 
 2,621.5
 
 
 6
 
 
 2,177.7
 
 
 5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities
 
 $
46,709.3
 
 
 100
%
 $
46,286.4
 
 
 100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as
portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
pass-through securities. In addition, our residential collateralized mortgage obligation portfolio offers structural features that allow cash flows to be matched to our liabilities. 
        CMBS
provide varying levels of credit protection, diversification and reduced event risk depending on the securities owned and composition of the loan pool. CMBS are predominantly
comprised of large pool securitizations that are
diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. The risks to any CMBS deal are determined by the credit quality of the underlying loans and how those loans perform over time. Another key
risk is the vintage of the underlying loans and the state of the markets during a particular vintage. In the CMBS market, there is a material difference in the outlook for the performance of loans
originated in 2005 and earlier relative to loans originated in 2006 through 2008. For loans originated prior to 2006, underwriting assumptions were more conservative regarding required debt service
coverage and loan-to-value ratios. For the 2006 through 2008 vintages, real estate values peaked and the underwriting expectations were that values would continue to increase, which makes those loan
values more sensitive to market declines. The 2009 through 2011 vintages represent a return to debt service coverage ratios and loan-to-value ratios that more closely resemble loans originated prior
to 2006. 
        We
purchase ABS to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding ABS are structural and credit
risks. Structural risks include the security's priority in the issuer's capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit
risks involve issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We
actively monitor holdings of ABS to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest
rates or are insulated from such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment
speed for those ABS. In addition, we diversify the risks of ABS by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. 
        The
international exposure held in our U.S. operation's fixed maturities portfolio was 26% and 27% of total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. It is
comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturities. The following table presents the carrying amount of our international exposure for our U.S. operation's fixed maturities portfolio for
the periods indicated. 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 European Union
 
 $
4,132.1
 
 $
4,212.4
 


 United Kingdom
 
 
 2,329.5
 
 
 2,332.4
 


 Australia/New Zealand
 
 
 1,490.1
 
 
 1,539.0
 


 Asia-Pacific
 
 
 1,172.3
 
 
 1,325.5
 


 Latin America
 
 
 868.8
 
 
 790.4
 


 Other countries (1)
 
 
 2,139.8
 
 
 2,313.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
12,132.6$
 
 $
12,512.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Includes
exposure from 14 countries as of December 31, 2011 and 15 countries as of December 31, 2010. 

        International fixed maturities are determined by the country of domicile of the parent entity of an individual asset. All international fixed
maturities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and
industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our
investment policy limits total international fixed maturities 
64



 
Table of Contents
investments
and we are within those internal limits. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our investments in Canada totaled
$1,749.1 million and $1,578.0 million, respectively. 
        Economic
and fiscal conditions in select European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, continue to cause credit concerns particularly to financial
institutions and banks with exposure to the European periphery region. Our exposure to the region within our U.S. investment operations fixed maturities portfolio is modest and manageable,
representing 2.4% and 2.6% of total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Additionally, we did not hold any sovereign debt issuances of the selected countries and had
not bought or sold credit protection on sovereign issuances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        The
fixed maturities within our U.S. operations portfolio with exposure to the region are primarily corporate credit issuances of large multi-national companies where the majority of
revenues are coming from outside the country where the parent company is domiciled. Our experience indicates multinational companies have demonstrated better market price performance and credit
ratings stability. As of December 31, 2011, 97% of our total portfolio exposure consists of investment grade bonds with an average price of 97 (carrying value/amortized cost) and a weighted
average time to maturity of 5 years. 
        The
following table presents the carrying amount of our European periphery zone fixed maturities exposure for the periods indicated: 




























 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


Select European Exposure 
 
Greece 
 
Ireland 
 
Italy 
 
Portugal 
 
Spain 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Non-Sovereign:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Financial institutions
 
 $
—
 
 $
62.1
 
 $
53.7
 
 $
—
 
 $
152.2
 
 $
268.0
 


 Non-financial institutions
 
 
 7.1
 
 
 295.5
 
 
 223.9
 
 
 19.9
 
 
 284.5
 
 
 830.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
7.1
 
 $
357.6
 
 $
277.6
 
 $
19.9
 
 $
436.7
 
 $
1,098.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 




























 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


Select European Exposure 
 
Greece 
 
Ireland 
 
Italy 
 
Portugal 
 
Spain 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Non-Sovereign:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Financial institutions
 
 $
—
 
 $
75.1
 
 $
52.9
 
 $
—
 
 $
133.7
 
 $
261.7
 


 Non-financial institutions
 
 
 47.1
 
 
 337.6
 
 
 248.4
 
 
 33.9
 
 
 260.5
 
 
 927.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
47.1
 
 $
412.7
 
 $
301.3
 
 $
33.9
 
 $
394.2
 
 $
1,189.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        For further details on our International investment operations exposure to these European countries, see "International Investment
Operations — Fixed Maturities Exposure." 
         Fixed Maturities Credit Concentrations.    One aspect of managing credit risk is through industry, issuer and asset class
diversification. Our credit
concentrations are managed to established limits. The following table presents our top ten exposures as of December 31, 2011. 













 
 
Amortized cost 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 
 
 $
205.6
 


 AT&T Inc. 
 
 
 199.3
 


 General Electric Co. 
 
 
 192.4
 


 JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
 
 
 185.0
 


 Bank of America Corp. (1)
 
 
 182.9
 


 Credit Suisse Group AG (1)
 
 
 171.7
 


 Wells Fargo & Co. (1)
 
 
 171.0
 


 Verizon Communications Inc. 
 
 
 154.4
 


 Republic of Korea
 
 
 151.1
 


 Prudential Financial Inc. 
 
 
 146.8
 


 
 
 
 


 Total top ten exposures
 
 $
1,760.2
 


 
 
 
 








(1)Includes
actual counterparty exposure. 

        Fixed Maturities Valuation and Credit Quality.    Valuation techniques for the fixed maturities portfolio vary by security type and
the availability of
market data. The use of different pricing techniques and their assumptions could produce different financial results. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements" for further details regarding our pricing methodology. Once prices are determined, they are reviewed by analysts for
reasonableness based on asset class and observable market data. In addition, investment analysts who are familiar with specific securities review prices for reasonableness through direct interaction
with external sources, review of recent trade activity or use of internal models. All fixed maturities placed on 
65



 
Table of Contents
the
"watch list" are periodically analyzed by investment analysts or analysts that focus on troubled securities ("Workout Group"). This group then meets with the Chief Investment Officer and the
Portfolio Managers to determine reasonableness of prices. The valuation of impaired bonds for which there is no quoted price is typically based on the present value of the future cash flows expected
to be received. Although we believe these values reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any) and other
market factors involve qualitative and unobservable inputs. 
        The
Securities Valuation Office ("SVO") of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") monitors the bond investments of insurers for regulatory capital and reporting
purposes and, when required, assigns securities to one of six investment categories. For certain bonds, the NAIC designations closely mirror the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations'
("NRSRO") credit ratings. For most corporate bonds, NAIC designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated
"Baa3" or higher by Moody's, or "BBB-" or higher by Standard & Poor's. NAIC designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment
grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moody's, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poor's. 
        However,
for loan-backed and structured securities, as defined by the NAIC, the NAIC rating is not always equivalent to an NRSRO rating as described below. For non-agency RMBS, PIMCO
Advisors models and assigns the NAIC ratings. For CMBS, Blackrock Solutions undertakes the modeling and assignment of those NAIC ratings. Other loan-backed and structured securities may be subject to
an intrinsic price matrix as provided by the NAIC. This may result in a final designation being higher or lower than the NRSRO credit rating. 
        The
following table presents our total fixed maturities by NAIC designation and the equivalent ratings of the NRSROs as of the periods indicated as well as the percentage, based on fair
value, that each designation comprises. 






























 
 
 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


NAIC
Rating



 
Rating Agency
Equivalent 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
% of total
carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
% of total
carrying
amount 
 


 
 
 
 
($ in millions)
 


 1
 
  AAA/AA/A
 
 $
26,802.2
 
 $
28,115.1
 
 
 60
%
 $
26,765.7
 
 $
27,433.1
 
 
 59
%


 2
 
  BBB
 
 
 14,570.4
 
 
 15,195.9
 
 
 33
 
 
 14,445.7
 
 
 15,027.8
 
 
 33
 


 3
 
  BB
 
 
 2,537.5
 
 
 2,405.8
 
 
 5
 
 
 2,599.5
 
 
 2,460.0
 
 
 5
 


 4
 
  B
 
 
 759.1
 
 
 582.3
 
 
 1
 
 
 883.6
 
 
 739.1
 
 
 2
 


 5
 
  CCC and lower
 
 
 329.4
 
 
 255.5
 
 
 1
 
 
 567.1
 
 
 451.5
 
 
 1
 


 6
 
  In or near default
 
 
 273.4
 
 
 154.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 329.0
 
 
 174.9
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
     Total fixed maturities
 
 $
45,272.0
 
 $
46,709.3
 
 
 100
%
 $
45,590.6
 
 $
46,286.4
 
 
 100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Fixed maturities include 13 securities with an amortized cost of $149.7 million, gross gains of $6.9 million, gross losses of
$0.3 million and a carrying amount of $156.3 million as of December 31, 2011, that are still pending a review and assignment of a rating by the SVO. Due to the timing of when
fixed maturities are purchased, legal documents are filed and the review by the SVO is completed, there will always be securities in our portfolio that are unrated over a reporting period. In these
instances, an equivalent rating is assigned based on our fixed income analyst's assessment. 
         Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities and Home Equity Asset-Backed Securities Portfolios.    As of December 31, 2011, based on
amortized cost,
55% of our CMBS portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 41% was issued in 2005 or before and 15% of our ABS home equity portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 87% was issued in 2005 or before. 
        The
following tables present our exposure by credit quality and year of issuance ("vintage") for our CMBS portfolio as of the periods indicated. 














































 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
AAA 
 
AA 
 
A 
 
BBB 
 
BB+ and Below 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 2003 & Prior
 
 $
147.0
 
 $
142.3
 
 $
81.3
 
 $
81.4
 
 $
72.2
 
 $
70.2
 
 $
94.6
 
 $
85.2
 
 $
117.8
 
 $
79.9
 
 $
512.9
 
 $
459.0
 


 2004
 
 
 146.5
 
 
 149.6
 
 
 56.8
 
 
 56.9
 
 
 45.2
 
 
 41.6
 
 
 25.1
 
 
 18.8
 
 
 79.4
 
 
 54.7
 
 
 353.0
 
 
 321.6
 


 2005
 
 
 362.0
 
 
 392.4
 
 
 43.5
 
 
 48.0
 
 
 18.3
 
 
 17.1
 
 
 77.5
 
 
 61.6
 
 
 225.0
 
 
 128.7
 
 
 726.3
 
 
 647.8
 


 2006
 
 
 203.4
 
 
 209.2
 
 
 4.8
 
 
 5.6
 
 
 58.6
 
 
 62.9
 
 
 14.6
 
 
 14.5
 
 
 151.9
 
 
 89.9
 
 
 433.3
 
 
 382.1
 


 2007
 
 
 292.2
 
 
 288.9
 
 
 22.8
 
 
 25.1
 
 
 152.7
 
 
 165.2
 
 
 300.8
 
 
 306.6
 
 
 637.2
 
 
 347.8
 
 
 1,405.7
 
 
 1,133.6
 


 2008
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 15.0
 
 
 16.3
 
 
 33.1
 
 
 36.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 38.1
 
 
 32.7
 
 
 86.2
 
 
 85.4
 


 2009
 
 
 123.6
 
 
 127.5
 
 
 16.1
 
 
 16.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 139.7
 
 
 143.8
 


 2010
 
 
 76.2
 
 
 80.8
 
 
 7.7
 
 
 7.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 83.9
 
 
 88.4
 


 2011
 
 
 165.3
 
 
 164.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 165.3
 
 
 164.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
1,516.2
 
 $
1,554.7
 
 $
248.0
 
 $
257.2
 
 $
380.1
 
 $
393.4
 
 $
512.6
 
 $
486.7
 
 $
1,249.4
 
 $
733.7
 
 $
3,906.3
 
 $
3,425.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




66




 










Table of Contents 














































 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
AAA 
 
AA 
 
A 
 
BBB 
 
BB+ and Below 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 2003 & Prior
 
 $
372.4
 
 $
368.5
 
 $
119.9
 
 $
120.8
 
 $
140.6
 
 $
136.5
 
 $
149.1
 
 $
138.9
 
 $
118.4
 
 $
77.3
 
 $
900.4
 
 $
842.0
 


 2004
 
 
 262.6
 
 
 270.5
 
 
 58.4
 
 
 58.3
 
 
 52.1
 
 
 46.3
 
 
 50.3
 
 
 33.6
 
 
 71.5
 
 
 51.9
 
 
 494.9
 
 
 460.6
 


 2005
 
 
 411.0
 
 
 439.3
 
 
 28.6
 
 
 30.8
 
 
 25.3
 
 
 20.4
 
 
 92.8
 
 
 75.3
 
 
 214.2
 
 
 120.4
 
 
 771.9
 
 
 686.2
 


 2006
 
 
 216.3
 
 
 216.7
 
 
 9.0
 
 
 11.0
 
 
 75.0
 
 
 78.6
 
 
 19.1
 
 
 19.7
 
 
 171.2
 
 
 81.1
 
 
 490.6
 
 
 407.1
 


 2007
 
 
 376.8
 
 
 374.2
 
 
 65.7
 
 
 70.3
 
 
 179.8
 
 
 191.4
 
 
 278.4
 
 
 280.2
 
 
 648.1
 
 
 317.5
 
 
 1,548.8
 
 
 1,233.6
 


 2008
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 15.0
 
 
 15.7
 
 
 32.9
 
 
 35.8
 
 
 11.8
 
 
 9.6
 
 
 31.2
 
 
 19.3
 
 
 90.9
 
 
 80.4
 


 2009
 
 
 91.3
 
 
 95.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 91.3
 
 
 95.0
 


 2010
 
 
 37.9
 
 
 39.0
 
 
 3.3
 
 
 3.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 41.2
 
 
 42.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
1,768.3
 
 $
1,803.2
 
 $
299.9
 
 $
310.3
 
 $
505.7
 
 $
509.0
 
 $
601.5
 
 $
557.3
 
 $
1,254.6
 
 $
667.5
 
 $
4,430.0
 
 $
3,847.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The following tables present our exposure by credit quality and vintage for our ABS home equity portfolio supported by subprime first lien
mortgages as of the periods indicated. 














































 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
AAA 
 
AA 
 
A 
 
BBB 
 
BB+ and Below 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 2003 & Prior
 
 $
12.3
 
 $
12.3
 
 $
7.3
 
 $
7.0
 
 $
12.7
 
 $
12.0
 
 $
61.2
 
 $
54.8
 
 $
102.7
 
 $
77.1
 
 $
196.2
 
 $
163.2
 


 2004
 
 
 1.5
 
 
 1.4
 
 
 12.6
 
 
 11.9
 
 
 8.4
 
 
 7.8
 
 
 2.1
 
 
 2.1
 
 
 47.1
 
 
 38.3
 
 
 71.7
 
 
 61.5
 


 2005
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 3.0
 
 
 3.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 67.8
 
 
 43.3
 
 
 70.8
 
 
 46.4
 


 2006
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 14.9
 
 
 9.5
 
 
 14.9
 
 
 9.5
 


 2007
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 37.2
 
 
 27.8
 
 
 37.2
 
 
 27.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
13.8
 
 $
13.7
 
 $
22.9
 
 $
22.0
 
 $
21.1
 
 $
19.8
 
 $
63.3
 
 $
56.9
 
 $
269.7
 
 $
196.0
 
 $
390.8
 
 $
308.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 














































 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
AAA 
 
AA 
 
A 
 
BBB 
 
BB+ and Below 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
amount 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 2003 & Prior
 
 $
34.2
 
 $
33.7
 
 $
55.1
 
 $
50.5
 
 $
8.2
 
 $
7.4
 
 $
52.8
 
 $
45.0
 
 $
64.8
 
 $
48.0
 
 $
215.1
 
 $
184.6
 


 2004
 
 
 27.7
 
 
 26.0
 
 
 4.3
 
 
 4.2
 
 
 25.5
 
 
 21.8
 
 
 11.9
 
 
 11.0
 
 
 5.2
 
 
 4.5
 
 
 74.6
 
 
 67.5
 


 2005
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 3.1
 
 
 3.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 2.0
 
 
 1.4
 
 
 74.1
 
 
 54.6
 
 
 79.2
 
 
 59.2
 


 2006
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 15.7
 
 
 11.0
 
 
 15.7
 
 
 11.0
 


 2007
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 47.5
 
 
 37.9
 
 
 47.5
 
 
 37.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
61.9
 
 $
59.7
 
 $
62.5
 
 $
57.9
 
 $
33.7
 
 $
29.2
 
 $
66.7
 
 $
57.4
 
 $
207.3
 
 $
156.0
 
 $
432.1
 
 $
360.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Fixed Maturities Watch List.    We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturities through the designation of
"problem securities,"
"potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and/or interest payments are
in default or where default is perceived to be imminent in the near term, or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define
potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the
present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem
involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed
maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrower's financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that
restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual
cash flows. If the present value of the restructured cash flows is less than the current cost of the asset being restructured, a realized capital loss is recorded in net income and a new cost basis is
established. 
67



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturities portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the periods
indicated. 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Total fixed maturities (public and private)
 
 $
46,709.3
 
 $
46,286.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Problem fixed maturities (1)
 
 $
343.5
 
 $
378.7
 


 Potential problem fixed maturities
 
 
 166.3
 
 
 237.6
 


 Restructured problem fixed maturities
 
 
 14.6
 
 
 17.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities
 
 $
524.4
 
 $
633.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities as a percent of total fixed maturities
 
 
 1.12
%
 
 1.37
%








(1)The
problem fixed maturities carrying amount is net of other-than-temporary impairment losses. 

        Fixed Maturities Impairments.    We have a process in place to identify securities that could potentially have a credit or
interest-related impairment
that is other than temporary. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers' credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions and
other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and cash flow
projections as indicators of credit issues. 
        Each
reporting period, a group of individuals including the Chief Investment Officer, our Portfolio Managers, members of our Workout Group and representatives from Investment Accounting
review all securities to determine whether an other-than-temporary decline in value exists and whether losses should be recognized. The analysis focuses on each issuer's ability to service its debts
in a timely fashion. Formal documentation of the analysis and our decision is approved by management. 
        We
consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest-related impairment of a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances
considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to
capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; (4) for structured securities, the adequacy of the expected cash flows and (5) our intent to sell
the security or whether it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. To the extent we
determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, an impairment loss is recognized. For additional details, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments." 
        We
would not consider a security with unrealized losses to be other than temporarily impaired when it is not our intent to sell the security, it is not more likely than not that we would
be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost, which may be maturity, and we expect to recover the amortized cost basis. However, we do sell securities under certain
circumstances, such as when we have evidence of a change in the issuer's creditworthiness, when we anticipate poor relative future performance of securities, when a change in regulatory requirements
modifies what constitutes a permissible investment or the maximum level of investments held or when there is an increase in capital requirements or a change in risk weights of debt securities. Sales
generate both gains and losses. 
        There
are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring credit impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks
and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuer's ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that
issuer, (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated, (3) the risk that our investment professionals are
making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and
circumstances lead us to change our intent to not sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. 
        The
net realized loss relating to other-than-temporary credit impairments and credit related sales of fixed maturities was $186.7 million, $244.7 million, and
$428.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
68




 










Table of Contents 
 Fixed Maturities Available-for-Sale  
        The following tables present our fixed maturities available-for-sale by industry category and the associated gross unrealized gains and
losses, including other-than-temporary impairment losses reported in AOCI, as of the periods indicated. 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Gross
unrealized
gains 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Finance — Banking
 
 $
4,520.7
 
 $
79.9
 
 $
445.5
 
 $
4,155.1
 


 Finance — Brokerage
 
 
 381.0
 
 
 15.4
 
 
 6.7
 
 
 389.7
 


 Finance — Finance Companies
 
 
 216.2
 
 
 8.9
 
 
 4.7
 
 
 220.4
 


 Finance — Financial Other
 
 
 532.4
 
 
 55.5
 
 
 1.1
 
 
 586.8
 


 Finance — Insurance
 
 
 2,966.3
 
 
 227.2
 
 
 73.0
 
 
 3,120.5
 


 Finance — REITS
 
 
 1,015.2
 
 
 28.3
 
 
 22.0
 
 
 1,021.5
 


 Industrial — Basic Industry
 
 
 1,656.6
 
 
 135.3
 
 
 5.4
 
 
 1,786.5
 


 Industrial — Capital Goods
 
 
 2,133.0
 
 
 146.8
 
 
 14.3
 
 
 2,265.5
 


 Industrial — Communications
 
 
 2,033.2
 
 
 179.9
 
 
 23.8
 
 
 2,189.3
 


 Industrial — Consumer Cyclical
 
 
 1,606.7
 
 
 130.5
 
 
 12.4
 
 
 1,724.8
 


 Industrial — Consumer Non-Cyclical
 
 
 3,084.0
 
 
 286.3
 
 
 3.7
 
 
 3,366.6
 


 Industrial — Energy
 
 
 1,978.4
 
 
 220.9
 
 
 1.2
 
 
 2,198.1
 


 Industrial — Other
 
 
 596.1
 
 
 32.5
 
 
 3.9
 
 
 624.7
 


 Industrial — Technology
 
 
 851.3
 
 
 57.7
 
 
 9.3
 
 
 899.7
 


 Industrial — Transportation
 
 
 626.2
 
 
 45.7
 
 
 10.3
 
 
 661.6
 


 Utility — Electric
 
 
 2,709.6
 
 
 276.0
 
 
 18.9
 
 
 2,966.7
 


 Utility — Natural Gas
 
 
 1,034.2
 
 
 100.2
 
 
 1.8
 
 
 1,132.6
 


 Utility — Other
 
 
 197.1
 
 
 20.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 217.2
 


 FDIC guaranteed
 
 
 80.0
 
 
 0.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 80.6
 


 Government guaranteed
 
 
 1,219.0
 
 
 107.8
 
 
 7.8
 
 
 1,319.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total corporate securities
 
 
 29,437.2
 
 
 2,155.5
 
 
 665.8
 
 
 30,926.9
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 

3,130.8
 
 

185.6
 
 

0.7
 
 

3,315.7
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 3,894.3
 
 
 117.0
 
 
 597.6
 
 
 3,413.7
 


 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 
 1,408.1
 
 
 32.0
 
 
 51.5
 
 
 1,388.6
 


 Asset-backed securities — Home equity (1)
 
 
 390.8
 
 
 0.2
 
 
 82.6
 
 
 308.4
 


 Asset-backed securities — All other
 
 
 1,808.0
 
 
 68.1
 
 
 2.9
 
 
 1,873.2
 


 Collateralized debt obligations — Credit
 
 
 82.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 34.4
 
 
 48.4
 


 Collateralized debt obligations — CMBS
 
 
 98.7
 
 
 1.6
 
 
 18.5
 
 
 81.8
 


 Collateralized debt obligations — Loans
 
 
 203.2
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 8.8
 
 
 194.7
 


 Collateralized debt obligations — ABS
 
 
 15.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 1.1
 
 
 13.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities
 
 
 11,031.7
 
 
 404.8
 
 
 798.1
 
 
 10,638.4
 


 U.S. government and agencies
 
 

772.3
 
 

32.8
 
 

—
 
 

805.1
 


 States and political subdivisions
 
 
 2,670.0
 
 
 218.2
 
 
 5.5
 
 
 2,882.7
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 
 580.7
 
 
 96.3
 
 
 0.9
 
 
 676.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
44,491.9
 
 $
2,907.6
 
 $
1,470.3
 
 $
45,929.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)This
exposure is all related to sub-prime mortgage loans. 

69



 
Table of Contents






















 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Gross
unrealized
gains 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Finance — Banking
 
$
4,598.3
 
$
110.2
 
$
279.2
 
$
4,429.3
 


 Finance — Brokerage
 
 
418.4
 
 
16.8
 
 
2.6
 
 
432.6
 


 Finance — Finance Companies
 
 
267.3
 
 
11.2
 
 
4.5
 
 
274.0
 


 Finance — Financial Other
 
 
446.6
 
 
36.1
 
 
2.3
 
 
480.4
 


 Finance — Insurance
 
 
2,723.4
 
 
109.7
 
 
73.3
 
 
2,759.8
 


 Finance — REITS
 
 
1,210.6
 
 
33.7
 
 
27.8
 
 
1,216.5
 


 Industrial — Basic Industry
 
 
1,750.4
 
 
107.7
 
 
5.1
 
 
1,853.0
 


 Industrial — Capital Goods
 
 
2,262.3
 
 
137.8
 
 
7.3
 
 
2,392.8
 


 Industrial — Communications
 
 
2,184.4
 
 
163.4
 
 
11.9
 
 
2,335.9
 


 Industrial — Consumer Cyclical
 
 
1,616.3
 
 
109.9
 
 
10.9
 
 
1,715.3
 


 Industrial — Consumer Non-Cyclical
 
 
3,147.4
 
 
240.0
 
 
20.4
 
 
3,367.0
 


 Industrial — Energy
 
 
2,069.5
 
 
166.7
 
 
5.0
 
 
2,231.2
 


 Industrial — Other
 
 
657.6
 
 
36.6
 
 
5.5
 
 
688.7
 


 Industrial — Technology
 
 
793.8
 
 
42.0
 
 
5.8
 
 
830.0
 


 Industrial — Transportation
 
 
679.7
 
 
39.9
 
 
11.3
 
 
708.3
 


 Utility — Electric
 
 
2,608.4
 
 
169.3
 
 
19.5
 
 
2,758.2
 


 Utility — Natural Gas
 
 
1,073.2
 
 
75.1
 
 
3.4
 
 
1,144.9
 


 Utility — Other
 
 
156.6
 
 
15.5
 
 
—
 
 
172.1
 


 FDIC guaranteed
 
 
95.6
 
 
2.0
 
 
—
 
 
97.6
 


 Government guaranteed
 
 
1,158.0
 
 
101.6
 
 
5.9
 
 
1,253.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total corporate securities
 
 
29,917.8
 
 
1,725.2
 
 
501.7
 
 
31,141.3
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 

3,047.8
 
 

122.1
 
 

5.9
 
 

3,164.0
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
4,424.9
 
 
118.0
 
 
700.7
 
 
3,842.2
 


 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 
1,427.7
 
 
28.6
 
 
50.8
 
 
1,405.5
 


 Asset-backed securities — Home equity (1)
 
 
432.1
 
 
0.6
 
 
72.5
 
 
360.2
 


 Asset-backed securities — All other
 
 
1,325.1
 
 
24.5
 
 
1.2
 
 
1,348.4
 


 Collateralized debt obligations — Credit
 
 
90.8
 
 
—
 
 
36.4
 
 
54.4
 


 Collateralized debt obligations — CMBS
 
 
113.8
 
 
0.4
 
 
36.8
 
 
77.4
 


 Collateralized debt obligations — Loans
 
 
141.2
 
 
0.8
 
 
6.6
 
 
135.4
 


 Collateralized debt obligations — ABS
 
 
34.7
 
 
0.5
 
 
9.4
 
 
25.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities
 
 
11,038.1
 
 
295.5
 
 
920.3
 
 
10,413.3
 


 U.S. government and agencies
 
 

748.5
 
 

21.0
 
 

0.2
 
 

769.3
 


 States and political subdivisions
 
 
2,615.0
 
 
64.7
 
 
23.3
 
 
2,656.4
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 
389.3
 
 
34.9
 
 
—
 
 
424.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
$
44,708.7
 
$
2,141.3
 
$
1,445.5
 
$
45,404.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)This
exposure is all related to sub-prime mortgage loans. 

        Of the $1,470.3 million in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2011, there were $7.1 million in losses attributed to
securities scheduled to mature in one year or less, $113.6 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between one to five years, $79.0 million attributed to securities
scheduled to mature between five to ten years, $472.5 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature after ten years and $798.1 million related to mortgage-backed and other ABS
that are not classified by maturity year. As of December 31, 2011, we were in a $1,437.3 million net unrealized gain position as compared to a $695.8 million net unrealized gain
position as of December 31, 2010. Of the $741.5 million increase in net unrealized gains for the year ended December 31, 2011, an approximate $2.2 billion net unrealized
gain can be attributed to an approximate 98 basis points decrease in interest rates offset in part by net unrealized losses related to other market factors, primarily from widening of credit spreads. 
         Fixed Maturities Available-for-Sale Unrealized Losses.    We believe that our long-term fixed maturities portfolio is well
diversified among industry
types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year, we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturities. Our current policy is to limit the
percentage of cash flow invested in below investment grade assets to 10% of cash flow. During 2011, we did not actively increase our investment in available-for-sale below investment grade assets.
While Principal Life's general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to no more than 10% of the
total fixed maturities portfolios. 
        We
invest in privately placed fixed maturities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality
public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable,
a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. 
70



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table presents our fixed maturities available-for-sale by investment grade and below investment grade and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, including
other-than-temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, as of the periods indicated. 


































 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Gross
unrealized
gains 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Gross
unrealized
gains 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Investment grade:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Public
 
 $
28,497.9
 
 $
1,989.8
 
 $
435.0
 
 $
30,052.7
 
 $
28,496.5
 
 $
1,429.0
 
 $
394.5
 
 $
29,531.0
 


 Private
 
 
 12,298.2
 
 
 757.4
 
 
 373.8
 
 
 12,681.8
 
 
 12,071.9
 
 
 621.4
 
 
 406.4
 
 
 12,286.9
 


 Below investment grade:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Public
 
 
 1,834.4
 
 
 21.3
 
 
 365.1
 
 
 1,490.6
 
 
 2,087.8
 
 
 39.1
 
 
 305.3
 
 
 1,821.6
 


 Private
 
 
 1,861.4
 
 
 139.1
 
 
 296.4
 
 
 1,704.1
 
 
 2,052.5
 
 
 51.8
 
 
 339.3
 
 
 1,765.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
44,491.9
 
 $
2,907.6
 
 $
1,470.3
 
 $
45,929.2
 
 $
44,708.7
 
 $
2,141.3
 
 $
1,445.5
 
 $
45,404.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other-than-temporary impairment losses reported in
OCI, on investment grade fixed maturities available-for-sale by aging category as of the periods indicated. 




























 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Public 
 
Private 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Three months or less
 
 $
897.5
 
 $
14.1
 
 $
472.0
 
 $
4.9
 
 $
1,369.5
 
 $
19.0
 


 Greater than three to six months
 
 
 1,022.9
 
 
 33.7
 
 
 747.1
 
 
 24.0
 
 
 1,770.0
 
 
 57.7
 


 Greater than six to nine months
 
 
 420.3
 
 
 40.7
 
 
 337.4
 
 
 20.2
 
 
 757.7
 
 
 60.9
 


 Greater than nine to twelve months
 
 
 61.8
 
 
 5.5
 
 
 65.2
 
 
 3.4
 
 
 127.0
 
 
 8.9
 


 Greater than twelve to twenty-four months
 
 
 135.0
 
 
 15.8
 
 
 184.5
 
 
 20.5
 
 
 319.5
 
 
 36.3
 


 Greater than twenty-four to thirty-six months
 
 
 65.7
 
 
 16.3
 
 
 30.0
 
 
 5.5
 
 
 95.7
 
 
 21.8
 


 Greater than thirty-six months
 
 
 1,122.5
 
 
 308.9
 
 
 1,138.0
 
 
 295.3
 
 
 2,260.5
 
 
 604.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
3,725.7
 
 $
435.0
 
 $
2,974.2
 
 $
373.8
 
 $
6,699.9
 
 $
808.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 




























 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Public 
 
Private 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Three months or less
 
$
2,534.3
 
$
45.9
 
$
999.8
 
$
21.9
 
$
3,534.1
 
$
67.8
 


 Greater than three to six months
 
 
157.9
 
 
6.8
 
 
59.3
 
 
1.4
 
 
217.2
 
 
8.2
 


 Greater than six to nine months
 
 
186.3
 
 
5.5
 
 
65.1
 
 
2.1
 
 
251.4
 
 
7.6
 


 Greater than nine to twelve months
 
 
103.3
 
 
3.4
 
 
5.1
 
 
0.1
 
 
108.4
 
 
3.5
 


 Greater than twelve to twenty-four months
 
 
92.0
 
 
19.6
 
 
81.7
 
 
10.7
 
 
173.7
 
 
30.3
 


 Greater than twenty-four to thirty-six months
 
 
541.6
 
 
86.1
 
 
437.0
 
 
89.4
 
 
978.6
 
 
175.5
 


 Greater than thirty-six months
 
 
1,440.9
 
 
227.2
 
 
1,485.5
 
 
280.8
 
 
2,926.4
 
 
508.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
$
5,056.3
 
$
394.5
 
$
3,133.5
 
$
406.4
 
$
8,189.8
 
$
800.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other-than-temporary impairment losses reported in
OCI, on below investment grade fixed maturities available-for-sale by aging category as of the periods indicated. 




























 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Public 
 
Private 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Three months or less
 
 $
123.4
 
 $
3.6
 
 $
72.3
 
 $
6.3
 
 $
195.7
 
 $
9.9
 


 Greater than three to six months
 
 
 71.3
 
 
 8.1
 
 
 165.4
 
 
 12.4
 
 
 236.7
 
 
 20.5
 


 Greater than six to nine months
 
 
 74.3
 
 
 11.5
 
 
 30.8
 
 
 1.9
 
 
 105.1
 
 
 13.4
 


 Greater than nine to twelve months
 
 
 16.9
 
 
 9.5
 
 
 29.5
 
 
 1.6
 
 
 46.4
 
 
 11.1
 


 Greater than twelve to twenty-four months
 
 
 42.2
 
 
 11.8
 
 
 18.9
 
 
 4.4
 
 
 61.1
 
 
 16.2
 


 Greater than twenty-four to thirty-six months
 
 
 17.9
 
 
 3.6
 
 
 1.3
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 19.2
 
 
 3.9
 


 Greater than thirty-six months
 
 
 693.0
 
 
 317.0
 
 
 483.5
 
 
 269.5
 
 
 1,176.5
 
 
 586.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
1,039.0
 
 $
365.1
 
 $
801.7
 
 $
296.4
 
 $
1,840.7
 
 $
661.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




71




 










Table of Contents 




























 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Public 
 
Private 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Three months or less
 
$
70.1
 
$
1.0
 
$
70.9
 
$
4.6
 
$
141.0
 
$
5.6
 


 Greater than three to six months
 
 
15.1
 
 
0.3
 
 
8.9
 
 
0.1
 
 
24.0
 
 
0.4
 


 Greater than six to nine months
 
 
7.2
 
 
1.1
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
7.2
 
 
1.1
 


 Greater than nine to twelve months
 
 
32.0
 
 
1.2
 
 
11.5
 
 
0.6
 
 
43.5
 
 
1.8
 


 Greater than twelve to twenty-four months
 
 
5.9
 
 
1.9
 
 
0.2
 
 
0.1
 
 
6.1
 
 
2.0
 


 Greater than twenty-four to thirty-six months
 
 
233.9
 
 
43.9
 
 
175.1
 
 
89.0
 
 
409.0
 
 
132.9
 


 Greater than thirty-six months
 
 
807.4
 
 
255.9
 
 
495.8
 
 
244.9
 
 
1,303.2
 
 
500.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
$
1,171.6
 
$
305.3
 
$
762.4
 
$
339.3
 
$
1,934.0
 
$
644.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other-than-temporary impairment losses reported in
OCI, on fixed maturities available-for-sale where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of the periods indicated. 




























 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Problem, potential
problem, and
restructured 
 
All other fixed
maturity securities 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Three months or less
 
 $
42.4
 
 $
14.0
 
 $
231.7
 
 $
75.5
 
 $
274.1
 
 $
89.5
 


 Greater than three to six months
 
 
 74.4
 
 
 32.2
 
 
 587.3
 
 
 263.9
 
 
 661.7
 
 
 296.1
 


 Greater than six to nine months
 
 
 18.2
 
 
 11.6
 
 
 77.6
 
 
 47.2
 
 
 95.8
 
 
 58.8
 


 Greater than nine to twelve months
 
 
 3.5
 
 
 1.6
 
 
 6.9
 
 
 8.5
 
 
 10.4
 
 
 10.1
 


 Greater than twelve months
 
 
 171.9
 
 
 262.4
 
 
 452.8
 
 
 387.6
 
 
 624.7
 
 
 650.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
310.4
 
 $
321.8
 
 $
1,356.3
 
 $
782.7
 
 $
1,666.7
 
 $
1,104.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 




























 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Problem, potential
problem, and
restructured 
 
All other fixed
maturity securities 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
amount 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Three months or less
 
 $
39.6
 
 $
11.1
 
 $
57.7
 
 $
16.5
 
 $
97.3
 
 $
27.6
 


 Greater than three to six months
 
 
 0.9
 
 
 1.1
 
 
 15.1
 
 
 4.9
 
 
 16.0
 
 
 6.0
 


 Greater than six to nine months
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 113.8
 
 
 33.3
 
 
 113.9
 
 
 33.3
 


 Greater than nine to twelve months
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Greater than twelve months
 
 
 251.4
 
 
 403.6
 
 
 792.8
 
 
 529.4
 
 
 1,044.2
 
 
 933.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
292.0
 
 $
415.8
 
 $
979.4
 
 $
584.1
 
 $
1,271.4
 
 $
999.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Mortgage Loans  
        Mortgage loans consist of commercial mortgage loans on real estate and residential mortgage loans. The carrying amount of our
commercial mortgage loan portfolio was $9,386.0 million and $9,599.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The carrying amount of our residential mortgage loan
portfolio was $746.0 million and $877.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        Commercial Mortgage Loans.    We generally report commercial mortgage loans on real estate at cost adjusted for amortization of
premiums and accrual of
discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. 
        Commercial
mortgage loans play an important role in our investment strategy by:


•providing strong risk-adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives;  
•enhancing total returns and 
•providing strategic portfolio diversification. 

        As
a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages originated with conservative loan-to-value
ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. 
72



 
Table of Contents
        Our
commercial mortgage loan portfolio consists primarily of non-recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised primarily of
credit oriented retail properties, office properties and general-purpose industrial properties. 
        Our
commercial mortgage loan portfolio is diversified by geography and specific collateral property type. Commercial mortgage lending in the state of California accounted for 22% of our
commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may
affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we
obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the building's design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that
is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses, by building and geographic fault lines, the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio
might suffer under a variety of seismic events. 
        The
typical borrower in our commercial loan portfolio is a single purpose entity or single asset entity. As of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, 30% of the commercial mortgage loan
portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding was 975 and 1,033 as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $9.7 million and $9.4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. 
         Commercial Mortgage Loan Credit Monitoring.    For further details on monitoring and management of our commercial mortgage loan
portfolio, see
Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments — Mortgage Loan Credit Monitoring." 
        We
categorize loans that are 60 days or more delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure and loans with borrowers or credit tenants in bankruptcy that are delinquent as "problem"
loans. Valuation allowances or charge-offs have been recognized on most problem loans. We categorize loans that are delinquent less than 60 days where the default is expected to be cured and
loans with borrowers or credit tenants in bankruptcy that are current as "potential problem" loans. The decision whether to classify a loan delinquent less than 60 days as a potential problem
involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original note rate
has been reduced below market and loans for which the principal has been reduced as "restructured" loans. We also consider loans that are refinanced more than one year beyond the original maturity or
call date at below market rates as restructured. 
        There
was a significant increase in the level of problem, potential problem, and restructured commercial mortgages during 2009 due to the impact of the U.S. recession on commercial real
estate, peaking at year-end 2009. There was a decrease in the level of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages during 2011 primarily due to loan payoffs, foreclosures, and
improvement in collateral occupancies and values. The South Atlantic, Pacific, and East North Central regions accounted for over 90% of the problem, potential problem and restructured commercial
mortgages as of December 31, 2011. The South Atlantic region accounted for the majority of the problem, potential problem, and restructured commercial mortgages as of December 31, 2010.
Office and apartment properties accounted for 60% of the problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as of December 31, 2011. Apartments and industrial properties accounted
for over half of the problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as of December 31, 2010. 
        The
following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the
periods indicated. 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Total commercial mortgages
 
 $
9,386.0
 
 $
9,599.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Problem commercial mortgages (1)
 
 $
112.7
 
 $
35.7
 


 Potential problem commercial mortgages
 
 
 152.8
 
 
 317.7
 


 Restructured problem commercial mortgages
 
 
 7.5
 
 
 7.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages
 
 $
273.0
 
 $
360.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial mortgages
 
 
 2.91
%
 
 3.76
%








(1)Includes
$13.5 million of commercial mortgage loans in foreclosure as of December 31, 2010. 

        Commercial Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance.    The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans includes loan specific
reserves for loans that
are deemed to be impaired as well as reserves for pools of loans with similar characteristics where a property risk or market specific risk has not been identified but for which we anticipate a loss
may occur. For further details on the commercial mortgage valuation allowance, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
Note 4, Investments — Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance." 
        The
valuation allowance decreased $15.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and decreased $51.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The
decrease in the level of valuation allowance during 2011 was related to the 
73



 
Table of Contents
same
market factors as those causing the decrease in the level of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages during the year ended December 31, 2011. The decrease in the
level of valuation allowance during 2010 was primarily related to loan write downs, payoffs and loan sales and the related release of valuation allowance, which is partially offset by current period
provisions. The South Atlantic region accounted for the highest level of reserves at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        The
following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated. 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Balance, beginning of period
 
 $
80.6
 
 $
132.5
 


 Provision
 
 
 17.0
 
 
 54.1
 


 Charge-offs
 
 
 (32.9
)
 
 (106.0
)


 Recoveries
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, end of period
 
 $
64.8
 
 $
80.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves
 
 
 0.69
%
 
 0.83
%




         Residential Mortgage Loans.    The residential mortgage loan portfolio is composed of home equity mortgages with an amortized cost
of
$611.0 million and $719.3 million and first lien mortgages with an amortized cost of $171.0 million and $195.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, primarily held by our Bank and Trust Services business. The home equity loans are generally second lien mortgages made up of closed-end loans and lines of credit. Non-performing
residential mortgage loans, which are defined as loans 90 days or greater delinquent plus non-accrual loans, totaled $24.0 million as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010. We
establish the residential mortgage loan valuation allowance at levels considered adequate to absorb probable losses within the portfolio based on management's evaluation of the size and current risk
characteristics of the portfolio. Such evaluation considers numerous factors, including, but not limited to net charge-off trends, loss forecasts, collateral values, geographic location, borrower
credit scores, delinquency rates, industry condition and economic trends. The changes in the valuation allowance are reported in net realized capital gains (losses) on our consolidated statements of
operations. 
        Our
residential mortgage loan portfolio, and in particular our home equity loan portfolio, experienced an increase in loss severity from sustained elevated levels of unemployment along
with continued depressed collateral values in 2010. While these factors continued to drive charge-offs in 2011, losses declined from the prior year due to declining loan balances. The following table
represents our residential mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated. 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Balance, beginning of period
 
 $
37.7
 
 $
28.7
 


 Provision
 
 
 28.5
 
 
 97.6
 


 Charge-offs
 
 
 (33.4
)
 
 (89.7
)


 Recoveries
 
 
 3.2
 
 
 1.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, end of period
 
 $
36.0
 
 $
37.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves
 
 
 4.6
%
 
 4.1
%




 Real Estate  
        Real estate consists primarily of commercial equity real estate. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the carrying amount of our
equity real estate investment was $1,083.9 million, or 2%, and $1,052.3 million, or 2%, of U.S. invested assets, respectively. Our commercial equity real estate is held in the form of
wholly owned real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and majority owned interests in real estate joint ventures. 
        Equity
real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale." Real estate held for investment totaled $1,047.3 million and
$1,010.7 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as net realized losses and, accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated
results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were no such impairment adjustments. 
        The
carrying amount of real estate held for sale was $36.6 million and $41.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There were no valuation
allowances as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We
establish a valuation allowance subject to periodic revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less
associated selling costs. 
        We
use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic
and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. 
74



 
Table of Contents
        Equity
real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic, West South Central and Pacific regions of the United States
as of December 31, 2011. By property type, there is a concentration in office, industrial and retail that represented approximately 77% of the equity real estate portfolio as of
December 31, 2011. 
 Other Investments  
        Our other investments totaled $1,783.5 million as of December 31, 2011, compared to $1,486.3 million as of
December 31, 2010. Derivative assets accounted for $1,156.5 million and $1,058.5 million in other investments as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The remaining
invested assets primarily include equity method investments, which include real estate properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. 
 International Investment Operations  
        Of our invested assets, $5.2 billion were held by our Principal International segment as of December 31, 2011. The assets
are managed by either our Principal Global Investors segment or by the local Principal International affiliate. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own
investment policies. As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, were fixed maturities, other investments,
residential mortgage loans and equity securities. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following table excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Carrying amount 
 
% of total 
 
Carrying amount 
 
% of total 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities — Public
 
 $
3,269.1
 
 
 63
%
 $
3,470.2
 
 
 65
%


 Equity securities
 
 
 86.0
 
 
 2
 
 
 62.7
 
 
 1
 


 Mortgage loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 10.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 9.4
 
 
 —
 


 Residential
 
 
 584.6
 
 
 11
 
 
 638.6
 
 
 12
 


 Real estate held for sale
 
 
 8.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 10.3
 
 
 —
 


 Real estate held for investment
 
 
 0.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.9
 
 
 —
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 23.5
 
 
 1
 
 
 24.2
 
 
 —
 


 Other investments
 
 
 1,204.5
 
 
 23
 
 
 1,155.3
 
 
 22
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total invested assets
 
 
 5,187.3
 
 
 100
%
 
 5,371.6
 
 
 100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 92.2
 
 
 
 
 
 60.2
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total invested assets and cash
 
 $
5,279.5
 
 
 
 
 $
5,431.8
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Investments in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $669.7 million and $507.5 million, respectively,
of other investments as of December 31, 2011. Investments in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $667.0 million and $443.1 million, respectively,
of other investments as of December 31,
2010. The remaining other investments as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, are primarily related to derivative assets and seed money investments. 
 Fixed Maturities Exposure  
        Economic and fiscal conditions in select European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, continue to cause
credit concerns particularly to financial institutions and banks with exposure to the European periphery region. Our exposure to the region within our International investment operations fixed
maturities portfolio is manageable, representing 7.7% and 8.8% of our total International invested assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Portfolio holdings with exposure to
this region consist of fixed maturities issued in the same countries as our International operations by local subsidiaries of the European parent. Nearly all of the exposure is to bonds issued in
Chile. In addition, we did not hold any sovereign debt issuances of the selected countries and had not bought or sold credit protection on sovereign issuances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        Financial
sector exposure is to local subsidiary banks, subject to local capital requirements and banking regulation. The current financial exposure carries an average AAA local rating
from S&P and the average time to maturity is 19 years. Non-financial sector exposure consists primarily of infrastructure bonds, which are backed by the project itself, often with minimum
revenue guarantees from the government. The current non-financial exposure carries an average AA local rating from S&P. The current Italian exposure has an average time to maturity of 15 years.
In addition, the current Spanish exposure has an average time to maturity of 14 years. As of December 31, 2011, our total portfolio exposure had an average price of 107 (carrying
value/amortized cost). 
75



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table presents the carrying amount of our European periphery zone fixed maturities exposure for the periods indicated. 




























 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


Select European Exposure 
 
Italy 
 
Spain 
 
Total 
 
Italy 
 
Spain 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Non-Sovereign:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Financial institutions
 
 $
—
 
 $
241.5
 
 $
241.5
 
 $
—
 
 $
286.4
 
 $
286.4
 


 Non-financial institutions
 
 
 52.5
 
 
 112.4
 
 
 164.9
 
 
 53.3
 
 
 137.0
 
 
 190.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
52.5
 
 $
353.9
 
 $
406.4
 
 $
53.3
 
 $
423.4
 
 $
476.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        For further details on our U.S. investment operations exposure to these European countries, see "U.S. Investment Operations —
Fixed Maturities." 
76




 











Table of Contents 
 
    Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     
 Market Risk Exposures and Risk Management  
        Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk
exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. 
        We
enter into market-sensitive instruments primarily for purposes other than trading. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall
market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches:


•rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; 
•control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities or 
•use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected
to be purchased. 

 Interest Rate Risk  
        Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. One source of interest rate
risk is the inherent difficulty in obtaining assets that mature or have their rate reset at the exact same time as the liabilities they support. Assets may have to be reinvested or sold in the future
to meet the liability cash flows in unknown interest rate environments. Secondly, there may be timing differences between when new liabilities are priced and when assets are purchased or procured that
can cause fluctuations in profitability if interest rates move materially in the interim. A third source of interest rate risk is the prepayment options embedded within asset and liability contracts
that can alter the cash flow profiles from what was originally expected. 
        One
of the measures we use to quantify our exposure to interest rate risk is duration. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cash flows. These cash flows are discounted
to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re-calculating
these cash flows, re-determining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. 
        We
manage interest rate risks in a number of ways. Differences in durations between assets and liabilities are measured and kept within acceptable tolerances. Derivatives are also
commonly used to mitigate interest rate risk due to cash flow mismatches and timing differences. Prepayment risk is controlled by limiting our exposure to investments that are prepayable without
penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer. We also require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk the issuer will exercise such option. Prepayment risk is also
controlled by limiting the sales of liabilities with features such as puts or other options that can be exercised against the company at inopportune times. For example, as of December 31, 2011,
approximately $11.3 billion, or 98%, of our institutional GICs and funding agreements cannot be redeemed by contractholders prior to maturity. 
        We
are also exposed to interest rate risk based upon the discount rate assumption used for purposes of valuing our pension and other post retirement benefit obligations. For further
discussion of interest rate risk associated with these
obligations, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates — Benefit Plans." 
         Duration-Managed.    Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities
in our
Retirement and Investor Services segment. We actively manage the duration of assets and liabilities in these products by minimizing the difference between the two. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration-managed portfolio was -0.35, as compared to -0.28
as of December 31, 2010. This duration gap indicates that, as of December 31, 2011, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the
fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines indicate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios should be within
+/-0.25. As of December 31, 2011, the mismatch exceeds our duration gap guideline due to temporary asset and liability spread mismatches. However, our cash flow studies
reflect our general practice to hold assets and liabilities to maturity and indicate that the interest rate risk is sufficiently managed. The value of the assets in this portfolio was
$26,811.6 million and $26,601.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
         Duration-Monitored.    For products such as whole life insurance and term life insurance that are less sensitive to interest rate risk,
and for other
products such as individual fixed deferred annuities, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of
policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2011, the weighted-average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was -3.03, as compared to
-1.54 as of December 31, 2010. This duration gap indicates that, as of December 31, 2011, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less
than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The 
77



 
Table of Contents
value
of the assets in these portfolios was $25,650.8 million and $24,720.0 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        Non Duration-Managed.    We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes most of the actual investment
performance of
the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage the duration
of this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $5,400.0 million and $5,167.8 million as of December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. 
        Using
the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2011, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates increases the net fair value of
our portfolio by approximately $871.9 million, compared with an estimated $455.4 million increase as of December 31, 2010. The following table details the estimated changes by
risk management strategy. The table also gives the weighted-average duration of the asset portfolio for each category, and the net duration gap (i.e., the weighted-average difference between the asset
and liability durations). 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


Risk Management Strategy 
 
Value of
total assets 
 
Duration
of assets 
 
Net
duration
gap 
 
Net
fair value
change 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
(in millions)
 


 Primary duration-managed
 
 $
26,811.6
 
 
 3.59
 
 
 (0.35
)
 $
93.8
 


 Duration-monitored
 
 
 25,650.8
 
 
 4.18
 
 
 (3.03
)
 
 778.1
 


 Non duration-managed
 
 
 5,400.0
 
 
 3.97
 
 
 N/A
 
 
 N/A
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
57,862.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
871.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to
demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that
illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our portfolio exposures at a point in time
and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio transactions in response to new business, management's assessment of changing
market conditions and available investment opportunities. 
        See
Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates — Valuation and Impairment of Fixed Income Investments" for additional discussion of the impact interest rate increases would have on fixed maturities, available-for-sale. 
         Debt Issued and Outstanding.    The primary risk for our long-term borrowings is interest rate risk at the time of maturity or early
redemption, when we
may be required to refinance these obligations. We continue to monitor the interest rate environment and to evaluate refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. 
        The
aggregate fair value of long-term debt, excluding accrued interest, was $1,750.7 million and $1,756.3 million, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As
of December 31, 2011, a 100 basis point immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $129.1 million, as compared to an estimated
$143.1 million increase as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates would decrease the fair value of debt by
approximately $118.1 million, as compared to an estimated $128.4 million decrease as of December 31, 2010. Debt is not recorded at fair value on the consolidated statements of
financial position. 
        Our
selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis
point immediate, parallel increase or decrease does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of
such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our long-term debt obligations at a point in time and may not be
representative of future obligations. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing changes to our outstanding long-term debt obligations. 
        For
additional information regarding our debt, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt." 
         Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk.    We use or have previously used various derivative financial instruments to manage our
exposure to
fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, interest rate collars, swaptions, futures and options. We use interest rate swaps and futures contracts to hedge changes in interest
rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in
anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the
sensitivity to the interest rate of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. We use interest rate collars to manage interest rate risk related to guaranteed minimum interest
rate liabilities in our individual annuities contracts. We purchase swaptions to offset existing exposures. Occasionally, we have sold a callable investment-type agreement and used written interest
rate swaptions to transform the callable liability into a fixed term liability. 
78



 
Table of Contents
        Derivatives
in our portfolio with interest rate sensitivity were in a net liability position with a fair value of $424.6 million and $309.9 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The following table shows the interest rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of
ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. 

























 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair value (no accrued interest) 
 


 
 
Notional amount 
 
Weighted average
term (years) (1) 
 
-100 basis point
change 
 
No change 
 
+100 basis point
change 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Interest rate swaps
 
 $
19,498.3
 
 
 5.18
 
 $
(408.9
)
 $
(459.8
)
 $
(501.3
)


 Futures (2)
 
 
 522.0
 
 
 0.25
 
 
 (35.9
)
 
 (3.3
)
 
 29.1
 


 Interest rate collars
 
 
 500.0
 
 
 11.15
 
 
 70.5
 
 
 38.5
 
 
 20.2
 


 Swaptions
 
 
 68.5
 
 
 0.16
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
20,588.8
 
 
 
 
 $
(374.3
)
 $
(424.6
)
 $
(452.0
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







(1)Based
on maturity date.
(2)We
use U.S. Treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. 
        Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to determine
potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that
illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our derivative portfolio exposures at a
point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing derivative transactions. 
 Foreign Currency Risk  
        Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
This risk arises from foreign currency-denominated funding agreements issued to nonqualified institutional investors in the international market, foreign currency-denominated fixed maturities and our
international operations. 
        We
estimate that as of December 31, 2011, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no material
change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above because we effectively hedge foreign currency denominated instruments to minimize exchange rate impacts,
which is consistent with our estimate as of December 31, 2010. However, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates do affect the translation of operating earnings and equity of our
international operations into our consolidated financial statements. 
        For
our Principal International segment, we estimate that a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we were exposed would have resulted
in a $171.6 million, or 10%, reduction in the total equity excluding noncontrolling interests of our international operations as of December 31, 2011, as compared to an estimated
$161.6 million, or 10%, reduction as of December 31, 2010. We estimate that a 10% unfavorable change in the average foreign currency exchange rates to which we were exposed through our
international operations would have resulted in a $16.9 million, or 11%, reduction in the operating earnings of our international operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, as
compared to an estimated $14.8 million, or 11%, reduction for the year ended December 31, 2010. 
        The
selection of a 10% immediate unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of
the potential impact of such an event. These exposures will change as a result of a change in the size and mix of our foreign operations. 
         Use of Derivatives to Manage Foreign Currency Risk.    The foreign currency risk on funding agreements and fixed maturities is mitigated
by using
currency swaps that swap the foreign currency interest and principal payments to our functional currency. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign-denominated
liabilities was $2,454.3 million and $2,995.4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with
foreign-denominated fixed maturities was $1,390.1 million and $1,558.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        With
regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable
to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to economically hedge the resulting risks. Our operations in Chile had currency swaps with a notional amount of $75.4 million
and $61.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which were used to swap cash flows on U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to a local currency. Chile also utilized currency
forwards with a notional amount of $147.3 million and $72.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, in order to mitigate currency exposure related to bonds
denominated in currencies other than Chilean pesos. 
79



 
Table of Contents
        Additionally,
from time to time we take measures to hedge our net equity investments in our foreign subsidiaries from currency risks. There were no outstanding net equity investment
hedges in 2011 or 2010. 
 Equity Risk  
        Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of our equity securities was $481.9 million and $486.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, a 10% decline in the value
of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $48.2 million, as compared to an estimated unrealized loss of $48.7 million as of December 31, 2010. 
        We
are also exposed to the risk that asset-based fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to change in investment prices and the risk that asset management
fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. We estimate that an immediate 10% decline in the Standard & Poor's index, followed by a 2% per quarter increase would reduce our
annual operating earnings by approximately four to six percent. The risk of decreased asset-based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for
amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and other actuarial balances. For further discussion, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances." 
        The
selection of a 10% unfavorable change in the equity markets should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential
impact of such an event. Our exposure will change as a result of changes in our mix of business. 
        We
also have equity risk associated with (1) fixed deferred annuity contracts that credit interest to customers based on changes in an external equity index; (2) variable
annuity contracts that have a GMWB rider that allows the customer to receive at least the principal deposit back through withdrawals of a specified annual amount, even if the account value is reduced
to zero; (3) variable annuity contacts that have a GMDB that allows the death benefit to be paid, even if the account value has fallen below the GMDB amount; (4) investment-type
contracts in which the return is tied to an external equity index and (5) investment-type contracts in which the return is subject to minimum contractual guarantees. We are also subject to
equity risk based upon the assets that support our benefit plans. For further discussion of equity risk associated with these plans, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Benefit Plans." 
        Use of Derivatives to Manage Equity Risk.    We economically hedge the fixed deferred annuity product, where the interest credited is
linked to an
external equity index, by purchasing options that match the product's profile. We economically hedge the GMWB exposure, which includes interest rate risk and equity risk, using futures, options and
interest rate swaps. We economically hedge the investment contract exposure to an external equity index using equity call options. 
        The
fair value of both the GMWB embedded derivative and associated hedging instruments are sensitive to financial market conditions and the variance related to the change in fair value
of these items for a given period is largely dependent on market conditions at the end of the period. We recognized a pre-tax gain (loss) on the derivatives used to economically hedge our GMWB market
risk of $166.6 million and $(21.2) million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We recognized a pre-tax gain (loss) on the change in fair value of the
GMWB embedded derivative that is primarily related to market risk impacts (excluding spread reflecting our own creditworthiness), of $(227.1) million and $16.2 million for the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Additionally, we recognized a pre-tax gain (loss) on the change in value of the GMWB liability related to other factors, of $95.6 million
and $(13.7) million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to incorporating a spread reflecting our own creditworthiness. We reflect the actual
and expected changes in value of the GMWB embedded derivative and the associated hedging instruments in our estimated gross profits, which resulted in a pre-tax increase in DPAC amortization of
$37.7 million and $9.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 Credit Risk  
        Credit risk relates to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal
and interest. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations — Investments" for additional information about credit risk. 
        Use of Derivatives to Diversify or Hedge Credit Risk.    We purchase credit default swaps to hedge credit exposures in our investment
portfolio. We sell
credit default swaps to offer credit protection to investors. When selling credit protection, if there is an event of default by the referenced name, we are obligated to pay the counterparty the
referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced security. For further information on credit derivatives sold, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments" under the caption, "Credit Derivatives Sold." 
        We
economically hedged credit exposure in our portfolio by purchasing credit default swaps with a notional amount of $607.0 million and $374.5 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We had credit exposure through credit default swaps with a notional amount of $147.4 million and $140.0 million as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, 
80



 
Table of Contents
respectively,
by investing in various tranches of synthetic collateralized debt obligations. In addition, we sold credit default swaps creating replicated assets with a notional amount of
$775.9 million and $967.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 Derivative Counterparty Risk  
        In conjunction with our use of derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that the counterparty fails to perform the
terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by:


•obtaining approval of all new counterparties by the Investment Committee;  
•establishing exposure limits that take into account non-derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as
derivative exposure; 
•performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a
long-term basis; 
•diversifying our risk across numerous approved counterparties; 
•implementing credit support annex (collateral) agreements ("CSAs") with majority of counterparties to further limit
counterparty exposures, which provide for netting of exposures; 
•limiting exposure to A+ credit or better for counterparties without CSAs;  
•conducting stress-test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction and  
•daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings, exposures and associated collateral levels. 

        We
believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is manageable. For further information on derivatives, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments." 
        Based
on our accounting policy, our disclosed exposure measures the fair value of derivatives that have become favorable to us and, therefore, is a combined credit exposure if all of the
involved counterparties failed to fulfill their obligations. In the hypothetical scenario where all of our counterparties fail to fulfill their obligations, our exposure would be
$1,245.1 million; however, including collateral received our exposure would be reduced to $1,008.1 million at December 31, 2011. For further information on derivative exposure,
see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments" under the caption, "Exposure." 
        We
manage our exposure on a net basis, whereby we net positive and negative exposures for each counterparty with agreements in place. Netting positive and negative exposures would yield
an exposure of $276.7 million, which is reduced to $39.7 million with pledged collateral at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we held total collateral of
$237.0 million in the form of cash and securities and we posted $502.4 million in cash and securities as collateral to our counterparties. We have not incurred any material losses on
derivative financial instruments due to counterparty nonperformance. As a result of our management of our counterparty risk and the collateralization of our derivative portfolio, any deterioration in
our derivative counterparties' credit would not materially impact our financial statements as of December 31, 2011. 
81




 











Table of Contents 
    Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     
 












 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
83


 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
84


 Audited Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 


 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
 
85


 Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
86


 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
 
87


 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
89


 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
90





82




 










Table of Contents 
 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
The
Board of Directors and Stockholders
Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
        We
have audited Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("the COSO criteria"). Management of Principal Financial
Group, Inc. ("the Company") is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit. 
        We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
        Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        In
our opinion, Principal Financial Group, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the
COSO criteria. 
        We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statements of financial position of Principal
Financial Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011, and our report dated February 15, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 











 
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP          


 Des Moines, Iowa
February 15, 2012

 

 




83



 
Table of Contents
 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
The
Board of Directors and Stockholders
Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
        We
have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("the Company") as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
        We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Principal Financial Group, Inc. at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. 
        As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in response to new accounting standards, the Company changed its methods of accounting for credit derivatives
embedded in beneficial interests in securitized financial assets effective July 1, 2010; for variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010 and for other-than-temporary impairments
on debt securities and for the treatment of noncontrolling interests effective January 1, 2009. 
        We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and
our report dated February 15, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 











 
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP          


 Des Moines, Iowa
February 15, 2012
 

 




84




 










Table of Contents 
 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position  
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale (2011 and 2010 include $214.2 million and $257.9 million related to consolidated variable interest
entities)
 
 $
49,006.7
 
 $
48,636.3
 


 Fixed maturities, trading (2011 and 2010 include $132.4 million and $131.4 million related to consolidated variable interest entities)

 
 
 971.7
 
 
 1,120.3
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 77.1
 
 
 169.9
 


 Equity securities, trading (2011 and 2010 include $207.6 million and $158.6 million related to consolidated variable interest entities)

 
 
 404.8
 
 
 316.9
 


 Mortgage loans
 
 
 10,727.2
 
 
 11,125.1
 


 Real estate
 
 
 1,092.9
 
 
 1,063.5
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 885.1
 
 
 903.9
 


 Other investments (2011 and 2010 include $97.8 million and $128.7 million related to consolidated variable interest entities, of which
$97.5 million and $128.3 million are measured at fair value under the fair value option)
 
 
 2,988.0
 
 
 2,641.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total investments
 
 
 66,153.5
 
 
 65,977.5
 


 Cash and cash equivalents (2011 and 2010 include $317.7 million and $100.0 million related to consolidated variable interest entities)

 
 
 2,833.9
 
 
 1,877.4
 


 Accrued investment income
 
 
 615.2
 
 
 666.1
 


 Premiums due and other receivables
 
 
 1,245.2
 
 
 1,063.0
 


 Deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
 3,313.5
 
 
 3,529.8
 


 Property and equipment
 
 
 457.2
 
 
 458.7
 


 Goodwill
 
 
 482.3
 
 
 345.4
 


 Other intangibles
 
 
 890.6
 
 
 834.6
 


 Separate account assets
 
 
 71,364.4
 
 
 69,555.3
 


 Other assets
 
 
 942.2
 
 
 1,323.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
148,298.0
 
 $
145,631.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Contractholder funds
 
 $
37,676.4
 
 $
37,301.1
 


 Future policy benefits and claims
 
 
 20,207.9
 
 
 20,046.3
 


 Other policyholder funds
 
 
 543.7
 
 
 592.2
 


 Short-term debt
 
 
 105.2
 
 
 107.9
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
 1,564.8
 
 
 1,583.7
 


 Income taxes currently payable
 
 
 3.1
 
 
 6.2
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
 533.4
 
 
 409.9
 


 Separate account liabilities
 
 
 71,364.4
 
 
 69,555.3
 


 Other liabilities (2011 and 2010 include $565.2 million and $433.6 million related to consolidated variable interest entities, of which
$88.4 million and $114.5 million are measured at fair value under the fair value option)
 
 
 6,286.1
 
 
 6,143.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 138,285.0
 
 
 135,746.1
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Series A preferred stock, par value $.01 per share with liquidation preference of $100 per share — 3.0 million shares authorized,
issued and outstanding in 2011 and 2010
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Series B preferred stock, par value $.01 per share with liquidation preference of $25 per share — 10.0 million shares authorized,
issued and outstanding in 2011 and 2010
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 0.1
 


 Common stock, par value $.01 per share — 2,500.0 million shares authorized, 450.3 million and 448.5 million shares issued, and
301.1 million and 320.4 million shares outstanding in 2011 and 2010
 
 
 4.5
 
 
 4.5
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
 9,634.7
 
 
 9,563.8
 


 Retained earnings
 
 
 5,077.5
 
 
 4,612.3
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 201.9
 
 
 272.4
 


 Treasury stock, at cost (149.2 million and 128.1 million shares in 2011 and 2010)
 
 
 (5,281.7
)
 
 (4,725.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity attributable to Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 
 
 9,637.0
 
 
 9,727.8
 


 Noncontrolling interest
 
 
 376.0
 
 
 157.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
 10,013.0
 
 
 9,885.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
 $
148,298.0
 
 $
145,631.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes.  
85




 










Table of Contents 
 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Consolidated Statements of Operations  



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions, except per share data)
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
2,891.0
 
 $
3,555.5
 
 $
3,750.6
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 2,565.1
 
 
 2,298.1
 
 
 2,096.0
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 3,375.8
 
 
 3,496.5
 
 
 3,400.8
 


 Net realized capital gains, excluding impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 75.0
 
 
 48.7
 
 
 54.9
 


 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 (147.6
)
 
 (296.3
)
 
 (714.1
)


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale reclassified to (from) other comprehensive income
 
 
 (49.7
)
 
 56.1
 
 
 260.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 (197.3
)
 
 (240.2
)
 
 (453.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital losses
 
 
 (122.3
)
 
 (191.5
)
 
 (398.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 8,709.6
 
 
 9,158.6
 
 
 8,849.1
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 4,454.1
 
 
 5,338.4
 
 
 5,334.5
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 210.2
 
 
 219.9
 
 
 242.2
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 3,057.7
 
 
 2,759.0
 
 
 2,526.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 7,722.0
 
 
 8,317.3
 
 
 8,103.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income before income taxes
 
 
 987.6
 
 
 841.3
 
 
 745.8
 


 Income taxes
 
 
 236.4
 
 
 124.1
 
 
 100.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 751.2
 
 
 717.2
 
 
 645.7
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 36.2
 
 
 17.9
 
 
 23.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 
 
 715.0
 
 
 699.3
 
 
 622.7
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
682.0
 
 $
666.3
 
 $
589.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Earnings per common share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic earnings per common share
 
 $
2.17
 
 $
2.08
 
 $
1.98
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted earnings per common share
 
 $
2.15
 
 $
2.06
 
 $
1.97
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes.  
86




 










Table of Contents 
 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity  





































 
 
Series A preferred
stock 
 
Series B preferred
stock 
 
Common
stock 
 
Additional
paid-in
capital 
 
Retained
earnings 
 
Accumulated
other
comprehensive
income (loss) 
 
Treasury
stock 
 
Noncontrolling
interest 
 
Total
stockholders'
equity 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Balances at January 1, 2009
 
$
—
 
$
0.1
 
$
3.9
 
$
8,376.5
 
$
3,722.5
 
$
(4,911.6
)
$
(4,718.6
)
$
96.5
 
$
2,569.3
 


 Common stock issued
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
0.6
 
 
1,122.4
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,123.0
 


 Stock-based compensation and additional related tax benefits
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
39.9
 
 
(1.9
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
38.0
 


 Treasury stock acquired, common
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(4.1
)
 
—
 
 
(4.1
)


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(159.5
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(159.5
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.0
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.0
)


 Distributions to noncontrolling interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(7.1
)
 
(7.1
)


 Contributions from noncontrolling interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
10.1
 
 
10.1
 


 Purchase of subsidiary shares from noncontrolling interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(45.9
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
0.2
 
 
(45.7
)


 Effects of reclassifying noncredit component of previously recognized impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
9.9
 
 
(9.9
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
622.7
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
23.0
 
 
645.7
 


 Net unrealized gains, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,693.1
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,693.1
 


 Noncredit component of impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(152.9
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(152.9
)


 Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of related income taxes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
168.2
 
 
—
 
 
0.2
 
 
168.4
 


 Unrecognized postretirement benefit obligation, net of related income taxes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
171.1
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
171.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,525.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2009
 
 
—
 
 
0.1
 
 
4.5
 
 
9,492.9
 
 
4,160.7
 
 
(1,042.0
)
 
(4,722.7
)
 
122.9
 
 
8,016.4
 


 Common stock issued
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
20.6
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
20.6
 


 Stock-based compensation and additional related tax benefits
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
50.3
 
 
(2.4
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
47.9
 


 Treasury stock acquired, common
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(2.6
)
 
—
 
 
(2.6
)


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(176.2
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(176.2
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.0
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.0
)


 Distributions to noncontrolling interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(7.8
)
 
(7.8
)


 Contributions from noncontrolling interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
24.0
 
 
24.0
 


 Effects of implementation of accounting change related to variable interest entities, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(10.7
)
 
10.7
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Effects of electing fair value option for fixed maturities upon implementation of accounting change related to embedded credit derivatives, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(25.4
)
 
25.4
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
699.3
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
17.9
 
 
717.2
 


 Net unrealized gains, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,070.6
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,070.6
 


 Noncredit component of impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.5
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.5
)


 Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of related income taxes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
33.2
 
 
—
 
 
0.2
 
 
33.4
 


 Unrecognized postretirement benefit obligation, net of related income taxes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
208.0
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
208.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,995.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2010
 
$
—
 
$
0.1
 
$
4.5
 
$
9,563.8
 
$
4,612.3
 
$
272.4
 
$
(4,725.3
)
$
157.2
 
$
9,885.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




87



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity — (continued) 






































 
 
Series A preferred
stock 
 
Series B preferred
stock 
 
Common
stock 
 
Additional
paid-in
capital 
 
Retained
earnings 
 
Accumulated
other
comprehensive
income (loss) 
 
Treasury
stock 
 
Noncontrolling
interest 
 
Total
stockholders'
equity 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Balances at January 1, 2011  
 
 $
—
 
 $
0.1
 
 $
4.5
 
 $
9,563.8
 
 $
4,612.3
 
 $
272.4
 
 $
(4,725.3
)
 $
157.2
 
 $
9,885.0
 


 Common stock issued
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 25.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 25.9
 


 Stock-based compensation and additional related tax benefits
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 47.0
 
 
 (3.1
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 43.9
 


 Treasury stock acquired, common
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (556.4
)
 
 —
 
 
 (556.4
)


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (213.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (213.7
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (33.0
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (33.0
)


 Distributions to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (9.8
)
 
 (9.8
)


 Contributions from noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 196.7
 
 
 196.7
 


 Purchase of subsidiary shares from noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (2.0
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (3.7
)
 
 (5.7
)


 Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 715.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 36.2
 
 
 751.2
 


 Net unrealized gains, net
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 213.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 213.7
 


 Noncredit component of impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale, net
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 31.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 31.4
 


 Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of related income taxes
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (142.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 (0.6
)
 
 (143.3
)


 Unrecognized postretirement benefit obligation, net of related income taxes
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (172.9
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (172.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 680.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2011  
 
 $
—
 
 $
0.1
 
 $
4.5
 
 $
9,634.7
 
 $
5,077.5
 
 $
201.9
 
 $
(5,281.7
)
 $
376.0
 
 $
10,013.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes.  
88




 










Table of Contents 
 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 $
751.2
 
 $
717.2
 
 $
645.7
 


 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
 538.0
 
 
 205.9
 
 
 92.2
 


 Additions to deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
 (520.5
)
 
 (496.3
)
 
 (482.4
)


 Accrued investment income
 
 
 50.9
 
 
 25.8
 
 
 58.8
 


 Net cash flows for trading securities
 
 
 110.8
 
 
 188.3
 
 
 (127.4
)


 Premiums due and other receivables
 
 
 (220.4
)
 
 (9.6
)
 
 (126.9
)


 Contractholder and policyholder liabilities and dividends
 
 
 1,090.7
 
 
 1,384.2
 
 
 1,530.9
 


 Current and deferred income taxes
 
 
 51.3
 
 
 60.9
 
 
 65.7
 


 Net realized capital losses
 
 
 122.3
 
 
 191.5
 
 
 398.3
 


 Depreciation and amortization expense
 
 
 115.8
 
 
 164.7
 
 
 138.5
 


 Mortgage loans held for sale, acquired or originated
 
 
 (132.3
)
 
 (60.6
)
 
 (61.2
)


 Mortgage loans held for sale, sold or repaid, net of gain
 
 
 82.0
 
 
 61.2
 
 
 75.4
 


 Real estate acquired through operating activities
 
 
 (37.4
)
 
 —
 
 
 (19.8
)


 Real estate sold through operating activities
 
 
 141.8
 
 
 121.6
 
 
 5.2
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
 43.4
 
 
 47.6
 
 
 37.2
 


 Other
 
 
 525.7
 
 
 189.3
 
 
 12.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net adjustments
 
 
 1,962.1
 
 
 2,074.5
 
 
 1,597.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
 
 2,713.3
 
 
 2,791.7
 
 
 2,243.0
 


 Investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases
 
 
 (6,742.4
)
 
 (7,187.9
)
 
 (7,933.3
)


 Sales
 
 
 980.7
 
 
 1,684.6
 
 
 3,439.8
 


 Maturities
 
 
 5,760.8
 
 
 5,161.3
 
 
 4,568.1
 


 Mortgage loans acquired or originated
 
 
 (1,484.9
)
 
 (1,272.0
)
 
 (586.5
)


 Mortgage loans sold or repaid
 
 
 1,793.1
 
 
 1,798.0
 
 
 1,704.4
 


 Real estate acquired
 
 
 (129.9
)
 
 (53.8
)
 
 (62.2
)


 Net purchases of property and equipment
 
 
 (56.9
)
 
 (21.5
)
 
 (26.2
)


 Purchases of interest in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
 
 
 (270.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (45.7
)


 Net change in other investments
 
 
 (52.1
)
 
 (81.2
)
 
 (31.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
 (202.1
)
 
 27.5
 
 
 1,026.8
 


 Financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
 25.9
 
 
 20.6
 
 
 1,123.0
 


 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
 (556.4
)
 
 (2.6
)
 
 (4.1
)


 Proceeds from financing element derivatives
 
 
 75.9
 
 
 79.3
 
 
 122.0
 


 Payments for financing element derivatives
 
 
 (46.5
)
 
 (46.5
)
 
 (67.4
)


 Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements
 
 
 2.0
 
 
 1.0
 
 
 0.2
 


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
 (213.7
)
 
 (176.2
)
 
 (159.5
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
 (33.0
)
 
 (33.0
)
 
 (33.0
)


 Issuance of long-term debt
 
 
 —
 
 
 2.3
 
 
 745.1
 


 Principal repayments of long-term debt
 
 
 (12.2
)
 
 (11.1
)
 
 (468.2
)


 Net proceeds from (repayments of) short-term borrowings
 
 
 3.2
 
 
 1.7
 
 
 (405.1
)


 Investment contract deposits
 
 
 6,302.1
 
 
 4,283.8
 
 
 4,224.1
 


 Investment contract withdrawals
 
 
 (7,079.0
)
 
 (7,343.4
)
 
 (8,752.7
)


 Net increase (decrease) in banking operation deposits
 
 
 (18.5
)
 
 46.2
 
 
 43.9
 


 Other
 
 
 (4.5
)
 
 (4.3
)
 
 (5.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
 (1,554.7
)
 
 (3,182.2
)
 
 (3,637.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 956.5
 
 
 (363.0
)
 
 (367.6
)


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
 1,877.4
 
 
 2,240.4
 
 
 2,608.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
 $
2,833.9
 
 $
1,877.4
 
 $
2,240.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Supplemental Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash paid for interest
 
 $
154.1
 
 $
123.4
 
 $
129.9
 


 Cash paid for income taxes
 
 $
152.8
 
 $
55.2
 
 $
75.4
 




See accompanying notes.  
89




 










Table of Contents 
 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
December 31, 2011  
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies  
 Description of Business  
        Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("PFG"), along with its consolidated subsidiaries, is a diversified financial services organization
engaged in promoting retirement savings and investment and insurance products and services in the U.S. and selected international markets. 
 Basis of Presentation  
        The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of PFG and all other entities in which we directly or
indirectly have a controlling financial interest as well as those variable interest entities ("VIEs") in which we are the primary beneficiary. Entities in which we have significant management
influence over the operating and financing decisions but are not required to consolidate are reported using the equity method. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 
        Reclassifications
have been made to prior period financial statements to conform to the December 31, 2011, presentation. 
 Closed Block  
        Principal Life Insurance Company ("Principal Life") operates a closed block ("Closed Block") for the benefit of individual
participating dividend-paying policies in force at the time of the 1998 mutual insurance holding company ("MIHC") formation. See Note 6, Closed Block, for further details. 
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
        In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued authoritative guidance related to balance sheet offsetting.
The new guidance requires disclosures about assets and liabilities that are offset or have the potential to be offset. These disclosures are intended to address differences in the asset and liability
offsetting requirements under U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. This new guidance will be effective for us for interim and annual reporting periods beginning
January 1, 2013, with retrospective application required and is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
        Also
in December 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that requires a reporting entity to follow the real estate sales guidance when the reporting entity ceases to have a
controlling financial interest in a subsidiary that is in-substance real estate as a result of a default on the subsidiary's nonrecourse debt. This guidance will be effective for us on
January 1, 2013, and is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
        In
September 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that amends how goodwill is tested for impairment. The amendments provide an option to perform a qualitative assessment to
determine whether it is necessary to perform the annual two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. This guidance will be effective for our 2012 goodwill impairment test and is not expected to
have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
        In
June 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that changes the presentation of comprehensive income in the financial statements. The new guidance eliminates the presentation
options contained in current guidance and instead
requires entities to report components of comprehensive income in either a continuous statement of comprehensive income or two separate but consecutive statements that show the components of net
income and other comprehensive income, including adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income. The guidance does not change the items that must be reported
in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. This guidance will be effective for us on January 1, 2012, and is not expected to
have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2011, the FASB issued a final standard to defer the new requirement to present reclassification adjustments out of other
comprehensive income to net income on the face of the financial statements. All other requirements contained in the original statement on comprehensive income are still effective. 
        In
May 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies and changes fair value measurement and disclosure requirements. This guidance expands existing disclosure requirements
for fair value measurements and makes other amendments but does not require additional fair value measurements. This guidance will be effective for us on January 1, 2012, and is not expected to
have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
        In
April 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the criteria for determining when repurchase agreements would be accounted for as secured borrowings as opposed to
sales. The guidance will be effective for us on 
90



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies — (continued) 
January 1,
2012, for new transfers and modifications to existing transactions. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
        Also
in April 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which clarifies when creditors should classify a loan modification as a troubled debt restructuring ("TDR"). A TDR occurs when
a creditor grants a concession to a debtor experiencing financial difficulties. Loans denoted as a TDR are considered impaired and are specifically reserved for when calculating the allowance for
credit losses. This guidance also ends the indefinite deferral issued in January 2011 surrounding new disclosures on loans classified as a TDR required as part of the credit quality disclosures
guidance issued in July 2010. This guidance was effective for us on July 1, 2011, and was applied retrospectively to restructurings occurring on or after January 1, 2011. This guidance
did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 4, Investments, for further details. 
        In
October 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that modifies the definition of the types of costs incurred by insurance entities that can be capitalized in the successful
acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts. Capitalized costs should include incremental direct costs of contract acquisition, as well as certain costs related directly to acquisition
activities such as underwriting, policy issuance and processing, medical and inspection and sales force contract selling. This guidance will be effective for us on January 1, 2012. We will
adopt this guidance retrospectively. Our retrospective adoption will result in a reduction to the opening balance of retained earnings of approximately $640.0 million at January 1, 2012. 
        In
July 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that requires new and expanded disclosures related to the credit quality of financing receivables and the allowance for credit
losses. Reporting entities are required to provide qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the allowance for credit losses, credit quality, impaired loans, modifications and nonaccrual and past
due financing receivables. The disclosures are required to be presented on a disaggregated basis by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable. Disclosures required by the guidance that
relate to the end of a reporting period were effective for us in our December 31, 2010, consolidated financial statements. Disclosures required by the guidance that relate to an activity that
occurs during a reporting period were effective for us on January 1, 2011, and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 4, Investments, for
further details. 
        In
April 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance addressing how investments held through the separate accounts of an insurance entity affect the entity's consolidation analysis.
This guidance clarifies that an insurance entity should not consider any separate account interests held for the benefit of policyholders in an investment to be the insurer's interests and should not
combine those interests with its general account interest in the same investment when assessing the investment for consolidation. This guidance was effective for us on January 1, 2011, and did
not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
        In
March 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that amends and clarifies the guidance on evaluation of credit derivatives embedded in beneficial interests in securitized financial
assets, including asset-backed securities ("ABS"), credit-linked notes, collateralized loan obligations and collateralized debt obligations ("CDOs"). This guidance eliminates the scope exception for
bifurcation of embedded credit derivatives in interests in securitized financial assets, unless they are created solely by subordination of one financial instrument to another. We adopted this
guidance effective July 1, 2010, and within the scope of this guidance reclassified fixed maturities with a fair value of $75.3 million from available-for-sale to trading. The cumulative
change in accounting principle related to unrealized losses on these fixed maturities resulted in a net $25.4 million decrease to retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to accumulated
other comprehensive income ("AOCI"). 
        In
January 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that requires new disclosures related to fair value measurements and clarifies existing disclosure requirements about the level of
disaggregation, inputs and valuation techniques. Specifically, reporting entities now must disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair
value measurements and describe the reasons for the transfers. In addition, in the reconciliation for Level 3 fair value measurements, a reporting entity should present separately information
about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements. The guidance clarifies that a reporting entity needs to use judgment in determining the appropriate classes of assets and liabilities for disclosure
of fair value measurement, considering the level of disaggregated information required by other applicable U.S. GAAP guidance and should also provide disclosures about the valuation techniques
and inputs used to measure fair value for each class of assets and liabilities. This guidance was effective for us on January 1, 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales,
issuances and settlements in the reconciliation for Level 3 fair value measurements, which were effective for us on January 1, 2011. This guidance did not have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements. See Note 14, Fair Value Measurements, for further details. 
        In
September 2009, FASB issued authoritative guidance for measuring the fair value of certain alternative investments and to offer investors a practical means for measuring the fair
value of investments in certain entities that 
91



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies — (continued) 
calculate
net asset value per share. This guidance was effective for us on October 1, 2009, and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
        In
August 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to provide additional guidance on measuring the fair value of liabilities. This guidance clarifies that the quoted price for the
identical liability, when traded as an asset in an active market, is also a Level 1 measurement for that liability when no adjustment to the quoted price is required. In the absence of a quoted
price in an active market, an entity must use one or more of the following valuation techniques to estimate fair value: (1) a valuation technique that uses a quoted price (a) of an
identical liability when traded as an asset or (b) of a similar liability when traded as an asset; or (2) another valuation technique such as (a) a present value technique or
(b) a technique based on the amount an entity would pay to transfer the identical liability or would receive to enter into an identical liability. This guidance was effective for us on
October 1, 2009, and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
        In
June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for the establishment of the FASB Accounting Standards CodificationTM
("Codification") as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with
U.S. GAAP. Rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative U.S. GAAP for SEC
registrants. All guidance contained in the Codification carries an equal level of authority. This guidance was effective for us on July 1, 2009, and did not have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements. 
        In
June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to improve the relevance, representational faithfulness and comparability of the information that a reporting entity provides in its
financial reports about a transfer of financial assets; the effects of a transfer on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows; and a transferor's continuing involvement in
transferred financial assets. The most significant change is the elimination of the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity ("QSPE"). Therefore, former QSPEs, as defined under previous
accounting standards, should be evaluated for consolidation by reporting entities on and after the effective date in accordance with the applicable consolidation guidance. This guidance was effective
for us on January 1, 2010, and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
        Also
in June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance related to the accounting for VIEs, which amends prior guidance and requires an enterprise to perform an analysis to determine
whether the enterprise's variable interest or interests give it a controlling financial interest in a VIE. This analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the enterprise with
(1) the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to
receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In addition, this guidance requires ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a
VIE. Furthermore, we are required to enhance disclosures that will provide users of financial statements with more transparent information about an enterprise's involvement in a VIE. We adopted this
guidance prospectively effective January 1, 2010. Due to the implementation of this guidance, certain previously unconsolidated VIEs were consolidated and certain previously consolidated VIEs
were deconsolidated. The cumulative change in accounting principle from adopting this guidance resulted in a net $10.7 million decrease to retained earnings and a net $10.7 million
increase to AOCI. In February 2010, the FASB issued an amendment to this guidance. The amendment indefinitely defers the consolidation requirements for reporting enterprises' interests in entities
that have the characteristics of investment companies and regulated money market funds. This amendment was effective January 1, 2010, and did not have a material impact to our consolidated
financial statements. The required disclosures are included in our consolidated financial statements. See Note 3, Variable Interest Entities, for further details. 
        In
April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which relates to the recognition and presentation of an other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") of securities and requires
additional disclosures. The recognition provisions apply only to debt securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity, while the presentation and disclosure requirements apply to both
debt and equity securities. An impaired debt security will be considered other-than-temporarily impaired if a holder has the intent to sell, or it more likely than not will be required to sell prior
to recovery of the amortized cost. If a holder of a debt security does not expect recovery of the entire cost basis, even if there is no intention to sell the security, it will be considered an OTTI
as well. This guidance also changes how an entity recognizes an OTTI for a debt security by separating the loss between the amount representing the credit loss and the amount relating to other
factors, if a holder does not have the intent to sell or it more likely than not will not be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost less any current period credit loss. Credit losses
will be recognized in net income and losses relating to other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income ("OCI"). If the holder has the intent to sell or it more likely than not will be
required to sell before its recovery of amortized cost less any current period credit loss, the entire OTTI will continue to be recognized in net income. Furthermore, this guidance requires a
cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption with a corresponding 
92



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies — (continued) 
adjustment
to accumulated OCI. We adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2009. The cumulative change in accounting principle from adopting this guidance resulted in a net
$9.9 million increase to retained earnings and a corresponding decrease to accumulated OCI. The required disclosures have been included in our consolidated financial statements. 
        Also
in April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which provides additional information on estimating fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability
have significantly decreased in relation to normal market activity for the asset or liability and clarifies that the use of multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. It also provides
additional guidance on circumstances that may indicate a transaction is not orderly. Further, it requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements in annual and interim reporting periods.
We adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2009, and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 14, Fair Value Measurements, for further
details. 
        In
March 2008, the FASB issued authoritative guidance requiring (1) qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, (2) quantitative
disclosures about fair value amounts of gains and losses on derivative instruments and related hedged items and (3) disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative
instruments. The disclosures are intended to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of how and why derivative instruments are used, how they are accounted for and the
financial statement impacts. We adopted these changes on January 1, 2009. See Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments, for further details. 
        In
December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance requiring that the acquiring entity in a business combination establish the acquisition-date fair value as the measurement
objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including any noncontrolling interests, and requires the acquirer to disclose additional information needed to more comprehensively evaluate
and understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. In addition, direct acquisition costs are to be expensed. We adopted this guidance on January 1, 2009. 
        Also
in December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance mandating the following changes to noncontrolling interests: 


(1)Noncontrolling
interests are to be treated as a separate component of equity, rather than as a liability or other item outside of equity.
(2)Net
income includes the total income of all consolidated subsidiaries, with separate disclosures on the face of the statement of operations of the income
attributable to controlling and noncontrolling interests. Previously, net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest was reported as an operating expense in arriving at consolidated net
income.
(3)This
guidance revises the accounting requirements for changes in a parent's ownership interest when the parent retains control and for changes in a parent's
ownership interest that results in deconsolidation. 

        We
adopted this guidance on January 1, 2009. 
 Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements  
        The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the amounts reported and disclosed. These estimates and assumptions could change in the future as more information becomes known, which could impact the amounts reported and disclosed in
the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The most critical estimates include those used in determining:


•the fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market values; 
•investment impairments and valuation allowances; 
•the fair value of and accounting for derivatives; 
•the deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") and other actuarial balances where the amortization is based on estimated
gross profits; 
•the measurement of goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets, finite lived intangible assets and related impairments or
amortization, if any; 
•the liability for future policy benefits and claims; 
•the value of our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and  
•accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax assets. 

93



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies — (continued) 
        A
description of such critical estimates is incorporated within the discussion of the related accounting policies that follow. In applying these policies, management makes subjective and
complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial
services industries; others are specific to our businesses and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
 Cash and Cash Equivalents  
        Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, money market instruments and other debt issues with a maturity date of three months or
less when purchased. 
 Investments  
        Fixed maturities include bonds, ABS, redeemable preferred stock and certain nonredeemable preferred stock. Equity securities include
mutual funds, common stock and nonredeemable preferred stock. We classify fixed maturities and equity securities as either available-for-sale or trading at the time of the purchase and, accordingly,
carry them at fair value. See Note 14, Fair Value Measurements, for methodologies related to the determination of fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to available-for-sale
securities, excluding those in fair value hedging relationships, are reflected in stockholders' equity, net of adjustments related to DPAC, sales inducements, unearned revenue reserves, policyholder
liabilities, derivatives in cash flow hedge relationships and applicable income taxes. Unrealized gains and losses related to hedged portions of available-for-sale securities in fair value hedging
relationships and mark-to-market adjustments on certain trading securities are reflected in net realized capital gains (losses). We also have a minimal amount of assets within trading securities
portfolios that support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of fixed maturities. Mark-to-market adjustments related to these trading securities are reflected
in net investment income. 
        The
cost of fixed maturities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, both computed using the interest method. The cost of fixed maturities and equity
securities classified as available-for-sale is adjusted for declines in value that are other than temporary. Impairments in value deemed to be other than temporary are primarily reported in net income
as a component of net realized capital gains (losses), with noncredit impairment losses for certain fixed maturities, available-for-sale reported in OCI. Interest income, as well as prepayment fees
and the amortization of the related premium or discount, is reported in net income. For loan-backed and structured securities, we recognize income using a constant effective yield based on currently
anticipated cash flows. 
        Real
estate investments are reported at cost less accumulated depreciation. The initial cost basis of properties acquired through loan foreclosures are the lower of the fair market
values of the properties at the time of foreclosure or the outstanding loan balance. Buildings and land improvements are generally depreciated on the straight-line method over the estimated useful
life of improvements and tenant improvement costs are depreciated on the straight-line method over the term of the related lease. We recognize impairment losses for properties when indicators of
impairment are present and a property's expected undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the property's carrying value. In such cases, the cost basis of the properties are reduced to
fair value. Real estate expected to be disposed is carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, with valuation allowances
established accordingly and depreciation no longer recognized. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale was $44.8 million and $51.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. Any impairment losses and any changes in valuation allowances are reported in net income. 
        Commercial
and residential mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method, net of
valuation allowances. Interest income is accrued on the principal amount of the loan based on the loan's contractual interest rate. Interest income, as well as prepayment of fees and the amortization
of the related premium or discount, is reported in net investment income. Any changes in the valuation allowances are reported in net income as net realized capital gains (losses). We measure
impairment based upon the difference between carrying value and estimated value less cost to sell. Estimated value is based on either the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the loan's
effective interest rate, the loan's observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. If foreclosure is probable, the measurement of any valuation allowance is based upon the fair value of
the collateral. 
        Net
realized capital gains and losses on sales of investments are determined on the basis of specific identification. In general, in addition to realized capital gains and losses on
investment sales and periodic settlements on derivatives not designated as hedges, we report gains and losses related to the following in net realized capital gains (losses): other-than-temporary
impairments of securities and subsequent realized recoveries, mark-to-market adjustments on certain trading securities, mark-to-market adjustments on certain seed money investments, fair value hedge
and cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, mark-to-market adjustments on derivatives not designated as hedges, changes in the mortgage loan valuation allowance provision and impairments of real estate held
for investment. Investment gains and losses on sales of 
94



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies — (continued) 
certain
real estate held for sale that do not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation and mark-to-market adjustments on trading securities that support investment strategies
that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of fixed maturities are reported as net investment income and are excluded from net realized capital gains (losses). 
        Policy
loans and other investments, excluding investments in unconsolidated entities and commercial mortgage loans of consolidated VIEs for which the fair value option was elected, are
primarily reported at cost. 
 Derivatives  
         Overview.    Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial
indices or the values
of securities. Derivatives generally used by us include interest rate swaps, interest rate collars, swaptions, futures, currency swaps, currency forwards, credit default swaps, options and total
return swaps. Derivatives may be exchange traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market. Derivative positions are either assets or liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial
position and are measured at fair value, generally by obtaining quoted market prices or through the use of pricing models. See Note 14, Fair Value Measurements, for policies related to the
determination of fair value. Fair values can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, values of securities, credit spreads, and market volatility and
liquidity. 
        Accounting and Financial Statement Presentation.    We designate derivatives as either: 


(a)a
hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment, including those denominated in a
foreign currency ("fair value hedge");
(b)a
hedge of a forecasted transaction or the exposure to variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability,
including those denominated in a foreign currency ("cash flow hedge");
(c)a
hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation or
(d)a
derivative not designated as a hedging instrument. 

        Our
accounting for the ongoing changes in fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the designation, as described above, and is determined when the
derivative contract is entered into or at the time of redesignation. Hedge accounting is used for derivatives that are specifically designated in advance as hedges and that reduce our exposure to an
indicated risk by having a high correlation between changes in the value of the derivatives and the items being hedged at both the inception of the hedge and throughout the hedge period. 
         Fair Value Hedges.    When a derivative is designated as a fair value hedge and is determined to be highly effective, changes in
its fair value, along
with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset, liability or firm commitment attributable to the hedged risk, are reported in net realized capital gains (losses). Any difference between the net
change in fair value of the derivative and the hedged item represents hedge ineffectiveness. 
        Cash Flow Hedges.    When a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge and is determined to be highly effective, changes in its
fair value are
recorded as a component of OCI. Any hedge ineffectiveness is recorded immediately in net income. At the time the variability of cash flows being hedged impacts net income, the related portion of
deferred gains or losses on the derivative instrument is reclassified and reported in net income. 
         Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Hedge.    When a derivative is used as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation,
its change in fair
value, to the extent effective as a hedge, is recorded as a component of OCI. Any hedge ineffectiveness is recorded immediately in net income. If the foreign operation is sold or upon complete or
substantially complete liquidation, the deferred gains or losses on the derivative instrument are reclassified into net income. 
         Non-Hedge Derivatives.    If a derivative does not qualify or is not designated for hedge accounting, all changes in fair value are
reported in net
income without considering the changes in the fair value of the economically associated assets or liabilities. 
        Hedge Documentation and Effectiveness Testing.    At inception, we formally document all relationships between hedging instruments
and hedged items, as
well as our risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes associating all derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges with
specific assets or liabilities on the statement of financial position or with specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. Effectiveness of the hedge is formally assessed at inception and
throughout the life of the hedging relationship. Even if a derivative is highly effective and qualifies for hedge accounting treatment, the hedge might have some ineffectiveness. 
        We
use qualitative and quantitative methods to assess hedge effectiveness. Qualitative methods may include monitoring changes to terms and conditions and counterparty credit ratings.
Quantitative methods may include statistical tests including regression analysis and minimum variance and dollar offset techniques. 
95



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies — (continued) 
         Termination of Hedge Accounting.    We prospectively discontinue hedge accounting when (1) the criteria to qualify for hedge
accounting is no
longer met, e.g., a derivative is determined to no longer be highly effective in offsetting the change in fair value or cash flows of a hedged item; (2) the derivative expires, is sold,
terminated or exercised or (3) we remove the designation of the derivative being the hedging instrument for a fair value or cash flow hedge. 
        If
it is determined that a derivative no longer qualifies as an effective hedge, the derivative will continue to be carried on the consolidated statements of financial position at its
fair value, with changes in fair value recognized prospectively in net realized capital gains (losses). The asset or liability under a fair value hedge will no longer be adjusted for changes in fair
value pursuant to hedging rules and the existing basis adjustment is amortized to the consolidated statements of operations line associated with the asset or liability. The component of OCI related to
discontinued cash flow hedges that are no longer highly effective is amortized to the consolidated statements of operations consistent with the net income impacts of the original hedged cash flows. If
a cash flow hedge is discontinued because it is probable the hedged forecasted transaction will not occur, the deferred gain or loss is immediately reclassified from OCI into net income. 
         Embedded Derivatives.    We purchase and issue certain financial instruments and products that contain a derivative that is
embedded in the financial
instrument or product. We assess whether this embedded derivative is clearly and closely related to the asset or liability that serves as its host contract. If we deem that the embedded derivative's
terms are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, and a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a
derivative instrument, the derivative is bifurcated from that contract and held at fair value on the consolidated statements of financial position, with changes in fair value reported in net income. 
 Contractholder and Policyholder Liabilities  
        Contractholder and policyholder liabilities (contractholder funds, future policy benefits and claims and other policyholder funds)
include reserves for investment contracts and reserves for universal life, term life insurance, participating traditional individual life insurance, group life insurance, accident and health insurance
and disability income policies, as well as a provision for dividends on participating policies. 
        Investment
contracts are contractholders' funds on deposit with us and generally include reserves for pension and annuity contracts. Reserves on investment contracts are equal to the
cumulative deposits less any applicable charges and withdrawals plus credited interest. Reserves for universal life insurance contracts are equal to cumulative deposits less charges plus credited
interest, which represents the account balances that accrue to the benefit of the policyholders. 
        We
hold additional reserves on certain long duration contracts where benefit features result in gains in early years followed by losses in later years, universal life/variable universal
life contracts that contain no lapse guarantee features, or annuities with guaranteed minimum death benefits. 
        Reserves
for nonparticipating term life insurance and disability income contracts are computed on a basis of assumed investment yield, mortality, morbidity and expenses, including a
provision for adverse deviation, which generally varies by plan, year of issue and policy duration. Investment yield is based on our experience. Mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rate assumptions
are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against both industry standards and experience. 
        Reserves
for participating life insurance contracts are based on the net level premium reserve for death and endowment policy benefits. This net level premium reserve is calculated based
on dividend fund interest rates and mortality rates guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in the contract. 
        Participating
business represented approximately 15%, 16% and 17% of our life insurance in force and 50%, 53% and 55% of the number of life insurance policies in force at
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Participating business represented approximately 47%, 49% and 52% of life insurance premiums for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. The amount of dividends to policyholders is declared annually by Principal Life's Board of Directors. The amount of dividends to be paid to policyholders is determined after
consideration of several factors including interest, mortality, morbidity and other expense experience for the year and judgment as to the appropriate level of statutory surplus to be retained by
Principal Life. At the end of the reporting period, Principal Life establishes a dividend liability for the pro rata portion of the dividends expected to be paid on or before the next policy
anniversary date. 
        Some
of our policies and contracts require payment of fees or other policyholder assessments in advance for services that will be rendered over the estimated lives of the policies and
contracts. These payments are established as unearned revenue liabilities upon receipt and included in other policyholder funds in the consolidated statements of financial position. These unearned
revenue reserves are amortized to operations over the estimated lives of these policies and contracts in relation to the emergence of estimated gross profit margins. 
96



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies — (continued) 
        The
liability for unpaid accident and health claims is an estimate of the ultimate net cost of reported and unreported losses not yet settled. This liability is estimated using actuarial
analyses and case basis evaluations. Although considerable variability is inherent in such estimates, we believe that the liability for unpaid claims is adequate. These estimates are continually
reviewed and, as adjustments to this liability become necessary, such adjustments are reflected in net income. 
 Recognition of Premiums and Other Considerations, Fees and Other Revenues and Benefits  
        Traditional individual life insurance products include those products with fixed and guaranteed premiums and benefits and consist
principally of whole life and term life insurance policies. Premiums from these products are recognized as premium revenue when due. Related policy benefits and expenses for individual life products
are associated with earned premiums and result in the recognition of profits over the expected term of the policies and contracts. 
        Immediate
annuities with life contingencies include products with fixed and guaranteed annuity considerations and benefits and consist principally of group and individual single premium
annuities with life contingencies. Annuity considerations from these products are recognized as revenue. However, the collection of these annuity considerations does not represent the completion of
the earnings process, as we establish annuity reserves, using estimates for mortality and investment assumptions, which include provision for adverse deviation as required by U.S. GAAP. We
anticipate profits to emerge over the life of the annuity products as we earn investment income, pay benefits and release reserves. 
        Group
life and health insurance premiums are generally recorded as premium revenue over the term of the coverage. Certain group contracts contain experience premium refund provisions
based on a pre-defined formula that reflects their claim experience. Experience premium refunds reduce revenue over the term of the coverage and are adjusted to reflect current experience. Related
policy benefits and expenses for group life and health insurance products are associated with earned premiums and result in the recognition of profits over the term of the policies and contracts. Fees
for contracts providing claim processing or other administrative services are recorded as revenue over the period the service is provided. 
        Universal
life-type policies are insurance contracts with terms that are not fixed. Amounts received as payments for such contracts are not reported as premium revenues. Revenues for
universal life-type insurance contracts consist of policy charges for the cost of insurance, policy initiation and administration, surrender charges and other fees that have been assessed against
policy account values and investment income. Policy benefits and claims that are charged to expense include interest credited to contracts and benefit claims incurred in the period in excess of
related policy account balances. 
        Investment
contracts do not subject us to significant risks arising from policyholder mortality or morbidity and consist primarily of guaranteed investment contracts ("GICs"), funding
agreements and certain deferred annuities. Amounts received as payments for investment contracts are established as investment contract liability balances and are not reported as premium revenues.
Revenues for investment contracts consist of investment income and policy administration charges. Investment contract benefits that are charged to expense include benefit claims incurred in
the period in excess of related investment contract liability balances and interest credited to investment contract liability balances. 
        Fees
and other revenues are earned for asset management services provided to retail and institutional clients based largely upon contractual rates applied to the market value of the
client's portfolio. Additionally, fees and other revenues are earned for administrative services performed including recordkeeping and reporting services for retirement savings plans. Fees and other
revenues received for performance of asset management and administrative services are recognized as revenue when earned, typically when the service is performed. 
 Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs  
        Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and field expenses) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of
new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to operations
as incurred. 
        DPAC
for universal life-type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment contracts are being amortized over the lives of the policies and contracts
in relation to the emergence of estimated gross profit margins. This amortization is adjusted in the current period when estimated gross profits are revised. For individual variable life insurance,
individual variable annuities and group annuities which have separate account equity investment options, we utilize a mean reversion method (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry
practice, to determine the future domestic equity market growth assumption used for the amortization of DPAC. The DPAC of nonparticipating term life insurance and individual disability policies are
being amortized over the premium-paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. 
97



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies — (continued) 
        DPAC
are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant loss recognition. If loss
recognition is necessary, DPAC would be written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profits are not adequate to cover related losses and
expenses. 
 Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs on Internal Replacements  
        All insurance and investment contract modifications and replacements are reviewed to determine if the internal replacement results in a
substantially changed contract. If so, the acquisition costs, sales inducements and unearned revenue associated with the new contract are deferred and amortized over the lifetime of the new contract.
In addition, the existing DPAC, sales inducement costs and unearned revenue balances associated with the replaced contract are written off. If an internal replacement results in a substantially
unchanged contract, the acquisition costs, sales inducements and unearned revenue associated with the new contract are immediately recognized in the period incurred. In addition, the existing DPAC,
sales inducement costs or unearned revenue balance associated with the replaced contract is not written off, but instead is carried over to the new contract. 
 Long-Term Debt  
        Long-term debt includes notes payable, nonrecourse mortgages and other debt with a maturity date greater than one year at the date of
issuance. Current maturities of long-term debt are classified as long-term debt in our statement of financial position. 
 Reinsurance  
        We enter into reinsurance agreements with other companies in the normal course of business. We may assume reinsurance from or cede
reinsurance to other companies. Assets and liabilities related to reinsurance ceded are reported on a gross basis. Premiums and expenses are reported net of reinsurance ceded. The cost of reinsurance
related to long-duration contracts is accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured policies using assumptions consistent with those used to account for the underlying policies. We are
contingently liable with respect to reinsurance ceded to other companies in the event the reinsurer is unable to meet the obligations it has assumed. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our largest
exposures to a single third-party reinsurer in our individual life insurance business was $25.3 billion and $23.3 billion of life insurance in force, representing 16% and 15% of total
net individual life insurance in force, respectively. The reinsurance recoverable related to this single third party reinsurer recorded in our consolidated statements of financial position was
$22.6 million and $27.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        The
effects of reinsurance on premiums and other considerations and policy and contract benefits were as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Premiums and other considerations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 $
3,208.0
 
 $
3,859.8
 
 $
4,047.6
 


 Assumed
 
 
 3.0
 
 
 3.5
 
 
 5.2
 


 Ceded
 
 
 (320.0
)
 
 (307.8
)
 
 (302.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net premiums and other considerations
 
 $
2,891.0
 
 $
3,555.5
 
 $
3,750.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 $
4,842.7
 
 $
5,507.2
 
 $
5,564.5
 


 Assumed
 
 
 34.3
 
 
 36.8
 
 
 38.9
 


 Ceded
 
 
 (422.9
)
 
 (205.6
)
 
 (268.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 $
4,454.1
 
 $
5,338.4
 
 $
5,334.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Separate Accounts  
        The separate account assets presented in the consolidated financial statements represent the fair value of funds that are separately
administered by us for contracts with equity, real estate and fixed income investments. The separate account contract owner, rather than us, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate
account assets are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any of our other business. We receive fees for mortality, withdrawal and expense risks, as well as administrative,
maintenance and investment advisory services that are included in the consolidated statements of operations. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on
the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. 
98



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 1. Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies — (continued) 
        At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the separate accounts include a separate account valued at $146.5 million and $221.7 million, respectively, which primarily includes
shares of our stock that were allocated and issued to eligible participants of qualified employee benefit plans administered by us as part of the policy credits issued under our 2001 demutualization.
These shares are included in both basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. In the consolidated statements of financial position, the separate account shares are recorded at fair value and
are reported as separate account assets with a corresponding separate account liability to eligible participants of the qualified plan. Changes in fair value of the separate account shares are
reflected in both the separate account assets and separate account liabilities and do not impact our results of operations. 
 Income Taxes  
        We file a U.S. consolidated income tax return that includes all of our qualifying subsidiaries. In addition, we file income tax returns
in all states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Our policy of allocating income tax expenses and benefits to companies in the group is generally based upon pro rata contribution
of taxable income or operating losses. We are taxed at corporate rates on taxable income
based on existing tax laws. Current income taxes are charged or credited to net income based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year.
Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of temporary differences in the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities and net operating losses using enacted income
tax rates and laws. The effect on deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in operations in the period in which the change is enacted. 
 Foreign Exchange  
        Assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates denominated in non-U.S. dollars, where the U.S. dollar is not the
functional currency, are translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the year-end spot foreign exchange rates. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as a component of stockholders' equity,
along with any related hedge and tax effects. Revenues and expenses for these entities are translated at the average exchange rates for the year. Revenue, expense and other foreign currency
transaction and translation adjustments that affect cash flows are reported in net income, along with related hedge and tax effects. 
 Goodwill and Other Intangibles  
        Goodwill and other intangible assets include the cost of acquired subsidiaries in excess of the fair value of the net tangible assets
recorded in connection with acquisitions. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. Rather, they are tested for impairment during the fourth quarter each year, or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level to which it was assigned. A reporting unit is an operating
segment or a business one level below that operating segment, if financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. Once goodwill has been assigned to a reporting
unit, it is no longer associated with a particular acquisition; therefore, all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the goodwill
value. Impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. 
        Intangible
assets with a finite useful life are amortized as related benefits emerge and are reviewed periodically for indicators of impairment in value. If facts and circumstances
suggest possible impairment, the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset is compared to the current carrying value of the asset. If the
undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of assets over their fair value. 
 Earnings Per Common Share  
        Basic earnings per common share is calculated by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of
common shares outstanding for the period and excludes the dilutive effect of equity awards. Diluted earnings per common share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities,
such as options and non-vested stock grants, were exercised or resulted in the issuance of common stock. 
99




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 2. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  
 Goodwill  
        The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill reported in our segments were as follows: 




























 
 
Retirement and Investor Services 
 
Principal Global Investors 
 
Principal International 
 
U.S. Insurance Solutions 
 
Corporate 
 
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Balances at January 1, 2010
 
$
72.6
 
$
169.0
 
$
56.3
 
$
43.4
 
$
45.1
 
$
386.4
 


 Impairment
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(43.6
)
 
(43.6
)


 Foreign currency translation
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4.2
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4.2
 


 Other
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1.6
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2010
 
 
72.6
 
 
169.0
 
 
58.9
 
 
43.4
 
 
1.5
 
 
345.4
 


 Goodwill from acquisitions
 
 
 —
 
 
68.0
 
 
86.2
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
154.2
 


 Foreign currency translation
 
 
 —
 
 
—
 
 
(17.3
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(17.3
)


 Other
 
 
 —
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1.5
 
 
(1.5
)
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2011 
 
$
72.6
 
$
237.0
 
$
127.8
 
$
44.9
 
$
—
 
$
482.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        On September 30, 2010, we announced our decision to exit the group medical insurance business. This event constituted a substantive change
in circumstances that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our group medical insurance reporting unit below its carrying amount. Accordingly, we performed an interim goodwill impairment
test as of September 30, 2010. As a result of the shortened period of projected cash flows, we determined that the goodwill related to this reporting unit within our Corporate operating segment
was impaired and it was written down to a value of zero. We recorded a $43.6 million pre-tax impairment loss as an operating expense in the consolidated statements of operations during the year
ended December 31, 2010. 
 Finite Lived Intangible Assets  
        Amortized intangible assets that continue to be subject to amortization over a weighted average remaining expected life of
13 years were as follows: 




























 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
Gross
carrying
amount 
 
Accumulated
amortization 
 
Net
carrying
amount 
 
Gross
carrying
amount 
 
Accumulated
amortization 
 
Net
carrying
amount 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


Present value of future profits
 
 $
191.7
 
 $
47.9
 
 $
143.8
 
 $
148.7
 
 $
48.7
 
 $
100.0
 


Other finite lived intangible assets
 
 
 218.9
 
 
 139.3
 
 
 79.6
 
 
 194.3
 
 
 128.5
 
 
 65.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Total amortized intangible assets
 
 $
410.6
 
 $
187.2
 
 $
223.4
 
 $
343.0
 
 $
177.2
 
 $
165.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        During 2010, we fully amortized other finite lived intangible assets of $1.7 million. We had no fully amortized other finite lived
intangible assets in 2011. 
         Present Value of Future Profits.    Present value of future profits ("PVFP") represents the present value of estimated future
profits to be generated
from existing insurance contracts in-force at the date of acquisition and is amortized over the expected policy or contract duration in relation to estimated gross profits. The PVFP asset
and amortization may be adjusted if revisions to estimated gross profits occur. 
100



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 2. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets — (continued) 
        The
changes in the carrying amount of PVFP, reported in our Principal International segment were as follows (in millions): 













 Balance at January 1, 2009
 
$
84.4
 


 Interest accrued
 
 
7.6
 


 Amortization
 
 
(8.9
)


 Foreign currency translation
 
 
5.1
 


 Other
 
 
10.2
 


 
 
 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2009
 
 
98.4
 


 Interest accrued
 
 
8.0
 


 Amortization
 
 
(11.5
)


 Foreign currency translation
 
 
5.1
 


 
 
 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
100.0
 


 Acquisitions
 
 
 67.4
 


 Interest accrued
 
 
 9.4
 


 Amortization
 
 
 (14.2
)


 Foreign currency translation
 
 
 (18.8
)


 
 
 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2011 
 
$
143.8
 


 
 
 
 




        At December 31, 2011, the estimated amortization expense, net of interest accrued, related to PVFP for the next five years is as follows
(in millions): 













 
 
 
 


 Year ending December 31:
 
 
 
 


 2012
 
 $
2.2
 


 2013
 
 
 2.3
 


 2014
 
 
 3.3
 


 2015
 
 
 4.3
 


 2016
 
 
 5.2
 




         Other Finite Lived Intangible Assets.    During 2010, we recorded a $1.6 million pre-tax impairment loss as an operating
expense related to
finite lived intangible assets with a gross carrying amount of $6.0 million and $4.4 million of accumulated amortization at the time of impairment resulting from our decision to exit the
group medical insurance business. During 2009, we recognized an impairment of $6.5 million associated with a customer-based intangible acquired as part of our acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc.
This impairment had no impact on our consolidated statement of operations for the Retirement and Investor Services segment, as the cash flows associated with this intangible are credited to an outside
party. 
        The
amortization expense for intangible assets with finite useful lives was $11.3 million, $18.9 million and $35.2 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At
December 31, 2011, the estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as follows (in millions): 













 Year ending December 31:
 
 
 
 


 2012
 
 $
13.3
 


 2013
 
 
 11.5
 


 2014
 
 
 10.5
 


 2015
 
 
 8.9
 


 2016
 
 
 8.8
 




 Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets  
        The net carrying amount of unamortized indefinite lived intangible assets was $667.2 million and $668.8 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, $608.0 million relates to investment management contracts associated with our December 31,
2006, acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. 
 3. Variable Interest Entities  

        We have relationships with and may have a variable interest in various types of special purpose entities. Following is a discussion of our interest in entities that meet the definition
of a VIE. When we are the primary beneficiary, we are required to consolidate the entity in our financial statements. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is defined as the enterprise with (1) the
power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits
from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. On an ongoing basis, we assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of VIEs we have relationships with. 
101



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 3. Variable Interest Entities — (continued) 
 Consolidated Variable Interest Entities  
 Grantor Trusts  
        We contributed undated subordinated floating rate notes to three grantor trusts. The trusts separated the cash flows by issuing an
interest-only certificate and a residual certificate related to each note contributed. Each interest-only certificate entitles the holder to interest on the stated note for a specified term, while the
residual certificate entitles the holder to interest payments subsequent to the term of the interest-only certificate and to all principal payments. We retained the interest-only certificates and the
residual certificates were subsequently sold to third parties. We have determined these grantor trusts are VIEs due to insufficient equity to sustain them. We determined we are the primary beneficiary
as a result of our contribution of securities into the trusts and our continuing interest in the trusts. 
 Collateralized Private Investment Vehicles  
        We invest in synthetic CDOs, collateralized bond obligations, collateralized loan obligations, collateralized commodity obligations and
other collateralized structures, which are VIEs due to insufficient equity to sustain the entities (collectively known as "collateralized private investment vehicles"). The performance of the notes of
these structures is primarily linked to a synthetic portfolio by derivatives; each note has a specific loss attachment and detachment point. The notes and related derivatives are collateralized by a
pool of permitted investments. The investments are held by a trustee and can only be liquidated to settle obligations of the trusts. These obligations primarily include derivatives, financial
guarantees and the notes due at maturity or termination of the trusts. We determined we are the primary beneficiary for certain of these entities because we act as the investment manager of the
underlying portfolio and we have an ownership interest. 
 Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities  
        We sold commercial mortgage loans to a real estate mortgage investment conduit trust. The trust issued various commercial
mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") certificates using the cash flows of the underlying commercial mortgages it purchased. This is considered a VIE due to insufficient equity to sustain itself. We
have determined we are the primary beneficiary as we retained the special servicing role for the assets within the trust as well as the ownership of the bond class that controls the unilateral kick
out rights of the special servicer. 
 Hedge Funds  
        We are a general partner with an insignificant equity ownership in various hedge funds. These entities are deemed VIEs due to the
equity owners not having decision-making ability. We have determined we are the primary beneficiary of these entities due to our control through our management relationship, related party ownership
and our fee structure in certain of these funds. 
102



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 3. Variable Interest Entities — (continued) 
        The
carrying amounts of our consolidated VIE assets, which can only be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs, and liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors do not
have recourse are as follows: 

























 
 
Grantor trusts 
 
Collateralized
private investment
vehicles 
 
CMBS 
 
Hedge funds (2) 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
199.2
 
$
15.0
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
214.2
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 —
 
 
132.4
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
132.4
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
 —
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
207.6
 
 
207.6
 


 Other investments
 
 
 —
 
 
—
 
 
97.5
 
 
0.3
 
 
97.8
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 —
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
317.7
 
 
317.7
 


 Accrued investment income
 
 
 1.2
 
 
0.1
 
 
0.6
 
 
—
 
 
1.9
 


 Premiums due and other receivables
 
 
 —
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
39.1
 
 
39.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
200.4
 
$
147.5
 
$
98.1
 
$
564.7
 
$
1,010.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 $
2.2
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
2.2
 


 Other liabilities (1)
 
 
 136.9
 
 
143.8
 
 
64.5
 
 
220.0
 
 
565.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 $
139.1
 
$
143.8
 
$
64.5
 
$
220.0
 
$
567.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
$
243.1
 
$
14.8
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
257.9
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
—
 
 
131.4
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
131.4
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
158.6
 
 
158.6
 


 Other investments
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
128.4
 
 
0.3
 
 
128.7
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
—
 
 
55.0
 
 
—
 
 
45.0
 
 
100.0
 


 Accrued investment income
 
 
0.7
 
 
0.1
 
 
0.8
 
 
—
 
 
1.6
 


 Premiums due and other receivables
 
 
—
 
 
1.6
 
 
—
 
 
13.9
 
 
15.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
243.8
 
$
202.9
 
$
129.2
 
$
217.8
 
$
793.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
$
2.4
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
2.4
 


 Other liabilities (1)
 
 
135.8
 
 
132.6
 
 
94.1
 
 
71.1
 
 
433.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
$
138.2
 
$
132.6
 
$
94.1
 
$
71.1
 
$
436.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Grantor
trusts contain an embedded derivative of a forecasted transaction to deliver the underlying securities; collateralized private investment vehicles
include derivative liabilities, financial guarantees and obligation to redeem notes at maturity or termination of the trust; CMBS includes obligation to the bondholders; and hedge funds include
liabilities to securities brokers.
(2)The
consolidated statements of financial position included a $343.6 million and $145.9 million noncontrolling interest for hedge funds as of
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. 

        We did not provide financial or other support to investees designated as VIEs for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
 Unconsolidated Variable Interest Entities  
 Invested Securities  
        We hold a variable interest in a number of VIEs where we are not the primary beneficiary. Our investments in these VIEs are reported in
fixed maturities, available-for-sale; fixed maturities, trading and other investments in the consolidated statements of financial position and are described below. 
        VIEs
include CMBS, residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities ("RMBS") and ABS. All of these entities were deemed VIEs because the equity within these entities is insufficient
to sustain them. We determined we are not the primary beneficiary in any of the entities within these categories of investments. This determination was based primarily on the fact we do not own the
class of security that controls the unilateral right to replace the special servicer or equivalent function. 
103




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 3. Variable Interest Entities — (continued)  

        As previously discussed, we invest in several types of collateralized private investment vehicles, which are VIEs. These include cash and synthetic structures that we do not manage. We
have determined we are not the primary beneficiary of these collateralized private investment vehicles primarily because we do not control the economic performance of the entities and were not
involved with the design of the entities. 
        We
have invested in various VIE trusts as a debt holder. All of these entities are classified as VIEs due to insufficient equity to sustain them. We have determined we are not the
primary beneficiary primarily because we do not control the economic performance of the entities and were not involved with the design of the entities. 
        We
have invested in partnerships, some of which are classified as VIEs. The partnership returns are in the form of return of capital, interest income or income tax credits. These
entities are classified as VIEs as the general partner does not have an equity investment at risk in the entity. We have determined we are not the primary beneficiary because we are not the general
partner, who makes all the significant decisions for the entity. 
        The
carrying value and maximum loss exposure for our unconsolidated VIEs were as follows: 
















 
 
Asset carrying value 
 
Maximum exposure
to loss (1) 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Corporate
 
 $
544.0
 
$
392.6
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 
 3,343.0
 
 
3,155.8
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 3,413.7
 
 
3,894.3
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
 338.8
 
 
399.7
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
 3,570.2
 
 
3,606.9
 


 Fixed maturities, trading:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 
 105.6
 
 
105.6
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 12.0
 
 
12.0
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
 51.4
 
 
51.4
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
 64.9
 
 
64.9
 


 Other investments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other limited partnership interests
 
 
 76.3
 
 
76.3
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Corporate
 
$
429.0
 
$
367.7
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 
3,196.2
 
 
3,077.9
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
3,842.2
 
 
4,424.9
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
293.0
 
 
380.5
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
3,114.1
 
 
3,184.9
 


 Fixed maturities, trading:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 
215.5
 
 
215.5
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
5.1
 
 
5.1
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
87.2
 
 
87.2
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
118.8
 
 
118.8
 


 Other investments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other limited partnership interests
 
 
71.7
 
 
71.7
 








(1)Our
risk of loss is limited to our initial investment measured at amortized cost for fixed maturities, available-for-sale and other investments. Our risk of
loss is limited to our initial investment measured at fair value for our fixed maturities, trading. 

 Sponsored Investment Funds  
        We are the investment manager for certain money market mutual funds that are deemed to be VIEs. We are not the primary beneficiary of
these VIEs since our involvement is limited primarily to being a service provider, and our variable interest does not absorb the majority of the variability of the entities' net assets. As of both
December 31, 2011 and 2010, these VIEs held $1.7 billion in total assets. During 2010, we chose to contribute $3.2 million to these VIEs for competitive reasons and have no
contractual obligation to further contribute to the funds. 
        We
provide asset management and other services to certain investment structures that are considered VIEs as we generally earn management fees and in some instances performance-based
fees. We are not the primary beneficiary of these entities as we do not have the obligation to absorb losses of the entities that could be potentially significant to the VIE or the right to receive
benefits from these entities that could be potentially significant. 
104



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 4. Investments  
 Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities  
        The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, other-than-temporary impairments in AOCI and fair value of fixed maturities and
equity securities available-for-sale are summarized as follows: 

























 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Gross
unrealized
gains 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Other-than-
temporary
impairments in
AOCI (1) 
 
Fair
value 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. government and agencies
 
 $
772.3
 
$
32.8
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
805.1
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 
 917.6
 
 
180.5
 
 
1.4
 
 
—
 
 
1,096.7
 


 States and political subdivisions
 
 
 2,670.0
 
 
218.2
 
 
5.5
 
 
—
 
 
2,882.7
 


 Corporate
 
 
 31,954.1
 
 
2,321.3
 
 
699.5
 
 
19.4
 
 
33,556.5
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 
 3,155.8
 
 
187.9
 
 
0.7
 
 
—
 
 
3,343.0
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 3,894.3
 
 
117.0
 
 
429.4
 
 
168.2
 
 
3,413.7
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
 399.7
 
 
1.9
 
 
55.8
 
 
7.0
 
 
338.8
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
 3,606.9
 
 
100.3
 
 
47.0
 
 
90.0
 
 
3,570.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
47,370.7
 
$
3,159.9
 
$
1,239.3
 
$
284.6
 
$
49,006.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 $
74.9
 
$
8.7
 
$
6.5
 
 
 
 
$
77.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. government and agencies
 
$
748.5
 
$
21.0
 
$
0.2
 
$
—
 
$
769.3
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 
744.7
 
 
127.9
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
872.6
 


 States and political subdivisions
 
 
2,615.0
 
 
64.7
 
 
23.3
 
 
—
 
 
2,656.4
 


 Corporate
 
 
32,523.8
 
 
1,913.7
 
 
527.0
 
 
18.0
 
 
33,892.5
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 
3,077.9
 
 
124.2
 
 
5.9
 
 
—
 
 
3,196.2
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
4,424.9
 
 
118.0
 
 
506.1
 
 
194.6
 
 
3,842.2
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
380.5
 
 
1.7
 
 
51.8
 
 
37.4
 
 
293.0
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
3,184.9
 
 
53.7
 
 
40.0
 
 
84.5
 
 
3,114.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
$
47,700.2
 
$
2,424.9
 
$
1,154.3
 
$
334.5
 
$
48,636.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total equity securities, available-for-sale
 
$
180.0
 
$
8.1
 
$
18.2
 
 
 
 
$
169.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Excludes
$28.9 million and $58.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of net unrealized gains on impaired fixed
maturities, available-for-sale related to changes in fair value subsequent to the impairment date. 

        The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturities available-for-sale at December 31, 2011, by expected maturity, were as follows: 
















 
 
Amortized cost 
 
Fair value 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Due in one year or less
 
 $
3,006.4
 
 $
3,044.9
 


 Due after one year through five years
 
 
 13,045.7
 
 
 13,476.7
 


 Due after five years through ten years
 
 
 9,166.0
 
 
 9,860.2
 


 Due after ten years
 
 
 11,095.9
 
 
 11,959.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Subtotal
 
 
 36,314.0
 
 
 38,341.0
 


 Mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities
 
 
 11,056.7
 
 
 10,665.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
47,370.7
 
 $
49,006.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Actual maturities may differ because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations. Our portfolio is diversified by industry, issuer
and asset class. Credit concentrations are managed to established limits. 
105




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 4. Investments — (continued)  
 Net Investment Income  
        Major categories of net investment income are summarized as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
2,596.2
 
 $
2,702.1
 
 $
2,679.3
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 64.7
 
 
 92.6
 
 
 37.9
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 10.5
 
 
 11.4
 
 
 16.8
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
 4.4
 
 
 2.8
 
 
 2.5
 


 Mortgage loans
 
 
 649.2
 
 
 673.3
 
 
 688.9
 


 Real estate
 
 
 74.2
 
 
 57.5
 
 
 35.9
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 58.2
 
 
 60.9
 
 
 62.0
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 8.5
 
 
 7.2
 
 
 13.0
 


 Derivatives
 
 
 (196.1
)
 
 (174.4
)
 
 (128.3
)


 Other
 
 
 189.0
 
 
 152.6
 
 
 104.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
 3,458.8
 
 
 3,586.0
 
 
 3,512.3
 


 Investment expenses
 
 
 (83.0
)
 
 (89.5
)
 
 (111.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net investment income
 
 $
3,375.8
 
 $
3,496.5
 
 $
3,400.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses  
        The major components of net realized capital gains (losses) on investments are summarized as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross gains
 
 $
26.4
 
 $
63.7
 
 $
123.3
 


 Gross losses
 
 
 (158.8
)
 
 (339.9
)
 
 (703.9
)


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses reclassified to (from) OCI
 
 
 (49.7
)
 
 56.1
 
 
 260.9
 


 Hedging, net
 
 
 130.5
 
 
 142.2
 
 
 (229.1
)


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 (6.7
)
 
 17.5
 
 
 49.3
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross gains
 
 
 2.2
 
 
 8.9
 
 
 27.0
 


 Gross losses
 
 
 (6.4
)
 
 (3.2
)
 
 (46.5
)


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
 20.3
 
 
 27.7
 
 
 39.4
 


 Mortgage loans
 
 
 (42.1
)
 
 (152.2
)
 
 (153.6
)


 Derivatives
 
 
 (180.5
)
 
 (143.9
)
 
 263.3
 


 Other
 
 
 142.5
 
 
 131.6
 
 
 (28.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital losses
 
 $
(122.3
)
 $
(191.5
)
 $
(398.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Proceeds from sales of investments (excluding call and maturity proceeds) in fixed maturities, available-for-sale were $0.9 billion,
$1.6 billion and $3.3 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 Other-Than-Temporary Impairments  
        We have a process in place to identify fixed maturity and equity securities that could potentially have a credit or interest-related
impairment that is other than temporary. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers' credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government
actions and other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and
cash flow projections as indicators of credit issues. 
        Each
reporting period, all securities are reviewed to determine whether an other-than-temporary decline in value exists and whether losses should be recognized. We consider relevant
facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest-related impairment of a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent
and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and
future impact of any specific events; (4) for structured securities, the adequacy of the expected cash flows; (5) for fixed maturities, our intent to sell a security or whether it is
more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before the recovery of its amortized cost which, in some cases, may extend to maturity and (6) for equity securities, our ability
and intent to hold the security for a 
106



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 4. Investments — (continued) 
period
of time that allows for the recovery in value. To the extent we determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, an impairment loss is recognized. 
        Impairment
losses on equity securities are recognized in net income and are measured as the difference between amortized cost and fair value. The way in which impairment losses on fixed
maturities are recognized in the financial statements is dependent on the facts and circumstances related to the specific security. If we intend to sell a security or it is more likely than not that
we would be required to sell a security before the recovery of its amortized cost, we recognize an other-than-temporary impairment in net income for the difference between amortized cost and fair
value. If we do not expect to recover the amortized cost basis, we do not plan to sell the security and if it is not more likely than not that we would be required to sell a security before the
recovery of its amortized cost, the recognition of the other-than-temporary impairment is bifurcated. We recognize the credit loss portion in net income and the noncredit loss portion in OCI
("bifurcated OTTI"). 
        Total
other-than-temporary impairment losses, net of recoveries from the sale of previously impaired securities, were as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
(143.8
)
 $
(300.0
)
 $
(693.6
)


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 (3.8
)
 
 3.7
 
 
 (20.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses, net of recoveries from the sale of previously impaired securities
 
 
 (147.6
)
 
 (296.3
)
 
 (714.1
)


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale reclassified to (from) OCI (1)
 
 
 (49.7
)
 
 56.1
 
 
 260.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 $
(197.3
)
 $
(240.2
)
 $
(453.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







(1)Represents
the net impact of (1) gains resulting from reclassification of noncredit impairment losses for fixed maturities with bifurcated OTTI from
net realized capital gains (losses) to OCI and (2) losses resulting from reclassification of previously recognized noncredit impairment losses from OCI to net realized capital gains (losses)
for fixed maturities with bifurcated OTTI that had additional credit losses or fixed maturities that previously had bifurcated OTTI that have now been sold or are intended to be sold. 
        We estimate the amount of the credit loss component of a fixed maturity security impairment as the difference between amortized cost and the
present value of the expected cash flows of the security. The present value is determined using the best estimate cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit to the security at the
date of purchase or the current yield to accrete an asset-backed or floating rate security. The methodology and assumptions for establishing the best estimate cash flows vary depending on the type of
security. The ABS cash flow estimates are based on security specific facts and circumstances that may include collateral characteristics, expectations of delinquency and default rates, loss severity
and prepayment speeds and structural support, including subordination and guarantees. The corporate security cash flow estimates are derived from scenario-based outcomes of expected corporate
restructurings or liquidations using bond specific facts and circumstances including timing, security interests and loss severity. 
        The
following table provides a rollforward of accumulated credit losses for fixed maturities with bifurcated credit losses. The purpose of the table is to provide detail of
(1) additions to the bifurcated credit loss amounts recognized in net realized capital gains (losses) during the period and (2) decrements for previously recognized bifurcated credit
losses 
107



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 4. Investments — (continued) 
where
the loss is no longer bifurcated and/or there has been a positive change in expected cash flows or accretion of the bifurcated credit loss amount. 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Beginning balance
 
 $
(325.7
)
 $
(204.7
)
 $
(18.5
)


 Credit losses for which an other-than-temporary impairment was not previously recognized
 
 
 (37.8
)
 
 (112.4
)
 
 (168.5
)


 Credit losses for which an other-than-temporary impairment was previously recognized
 
 
 (135.6
)
 
 (109.7
)
 
 (52.7
)


 Reduction for credit losses previously recognized on fixed maturities now sold or intended to be sold
 
 
 68.2
 
 
 53.2
 
 
 33.4
 


 Reduction for credit losses previously recognized on fixed maturities reclassified to trading (1)
 
 
 —
 
 
 44.4
 
 
 —
 


 Net reduction (increase) for positive changes in cash flows expected to be collected and amortization (2)
 
 
 (3.9
)
 
 3.5
 
 
 1.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ending balance
 
 $
(434.8
)
 $
(325.7
)
 $
(204.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







(1)Fixed
maturities previously classified as available-for-sale have been reclassified to trading as a result of electing the fair value option upon adoption
of accounting guidance related to the evaluation of credit derivatives embedded in beneficial interests in securitized financial assets.
(2)Amounts
are recognized in net investment income. 
 Gross Unrealized Losses for Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities  
        For fixed maturities and equity securities available-for-sale with unrealized losses, including other-than-temporary impairment losses
reported in OCI, the gross unrealized losses and fair value, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position are
summarized as follows: 




























 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Less than
twelve months 
 
Greater than or
equal to twelve months 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Carrying
value 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
value 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
value 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 $
68.5
 
 $
1.4
 
 $
0.3
 
 $
—
 
 $
68.8
 
 $
1.4
 


 States and political subdivisions
 
 
 5.7
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 51.7
 
 
 5.4
 
 
 57.4
 
 
 5.5
 


 Corporate
 
 
 3,445.6
 
 
 140.8
 
 
 2,403.9
 
 
 578.1
 
 
 5,849.5
 
 
 718.9
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 
 77.8
 
 
 0.5
 
 
 3.7
 
 
 0.2
 
 
 81.5
 
 
 0.7
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 608.4
 
 
 57.3
 
 
 858.9
 
 
 540.3
 
 
 1,467.3
 
 
 597.6
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
 107.2
 
 
 2.5
 
 
 204.4
 
 
 60.3
 
 
 311.6
 
 
 62.8
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
 708.1
 
 
 13.0
 
 
 508.1
 
 
 124.0
 
 
 1,216.2
 
 
 137.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
5,021.3
 
 $
215.6
 
 $
4,031.0
 
 $
1,308.3
 
 $
9,052.3
 
 $
1,523.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 $
14.3
 
 $
3.2
 
 $
15.6
 
 $
3.3
 
 $
29.9
 
 $
6.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Of the total amounts, Principal Life's consolidated portfolio represented $8,540.7 million in available-for-sale fixed maturities with
gross unrealized losses of $1,470.3 million. Principal Life's consolidated portfolio consists of fixed maturities where 76% were investment grade (rated AAA through BBB-) with an
average price of 85 (carrying value/amortized cost) at December 31, 2011. Gross unrealized losses in our fixed maturities portfolio increased slightly during the year ended December 31,
2011, due to a widening of credit spreads primarily in the corporate and commercial mortgage-backed securities sectors. 
        For
those securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than twelve months, Principal Life's consolidated portfolio held 477 securities with a carrying value
of $4,573.6 million and unrealized losses of $198.7 million reflecting an average price of 96 at December 31, 2011. Of this portfolio, 86% was investment grade (rated AAA through
BBB-) at December 31, 2011, with associated unrealized losses of $128.5 million. The unrealized losses on these securities can primarily be attributed to changes in market
interest rates and changes in credit spreads since the securities were acquired. 
        For
those securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position greater than or equal to twelve months, Principal Life's consolidated portfolio held 628 securities with a
carrying value of $3,967.1 million and unrealized losses of 
108



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 4. Investments — (continued) 
$1,271.6 million.
The average rating of this portfolio was BBB with an average price of 76 at December 31, 2011. Of the $1,271.6 million in unrealized losses, the commercial
mortgage-backed securities sector accounts for $540.3 million in unrealized losses with an average price of 61 and an average credit rating of BBB-. The remaining unrealized losses
consist primarily of $541.4 million within the corporate sector at December 31, 2011. The average price of the corporate sector was 81 and the average credit rating was BBB. The
unrealized losses on these securities can primarily be attributed to changes in market interest rates and changes in credit spreads since the securities were acquired. 
        Because
we expected to recover our amortized cost, it was not our intent to sell the fixed maturity available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses and it was not more likely than
not that we would be required to sell these securities before recovery of the amortized cost, which may be maturity, we did not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at
December 31, 2011. 




























 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Less than twelve months 
 
Greater than or
equal to twelve
months 
 
Total 
 


 
 
Carrying
value 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
value 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 
Carrying
value 
 
Gross
unrealized
losses 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. government and agencies
 
$
224.5
 
$
0.2
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
224.5
 
$
0.2
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 
7.9
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
7.9
 
 
—
 


 States and political subdivisions
 
 
771.0
 
 
18.4
 
 
44.2
 
 
4.9
 
 
815.2
 
 
23.3
 


 Corporate
 
 
2,457.4
 
 
69.1
 
 
3,948.9
 
 
475.9
 
 
6,406.3
 
 
545.0
 


 Residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities
 
 
384.9
 
 
5.9
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
384.9
 
 
5.9
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
340.1
 
 
4.9
 
 
1,186.4
 
 
695.8
 
 
1,526.5
 
 
700.7
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
10.4
 
 
0.5
 
 
233.0
 
 
88.7
 
 
243.4
 
 
89.2
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
401.5
 
 
8.4
 
 
578.4
 
 
116.1
 
 
979.9
 
 
124.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
$
4,597.7
 
$
107.4
 
$
5,990.9
 
$
1,381.4
 
$
10,588.6
 
$
1,488.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total equity securities, available-for-sale
 
$
47.3
 
$
7.2
 
$
77.0
 
$
11.0
 
$
124.3
 
$
18.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Of the total amounts, Principal Life's consolidated portfolio represented $9,914.2 million in available-for-sale fixed maturities with
gross unrealized losses of $1,445.3 million. Principal Life's consolidated portfolio consists of fixed maturities where 77% were investment grade (rated AAA through BBB-) with an
average price of 87 (carrying value/amortized cost) at December 31, 2010. Gross unrealized losses in our fixed maturities portfolio decreased during the year ended December 31, 2010, due
to a decline in interest rates and a tightening of credit spreads primarily in the corporate and commercial mortgage-backed securities sectors. 
        For
those securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than twelve months, Principal Life's consolidated portfolio held 534 securities with a carrying value
of $4,112.3 million and unrealized losses of $95.7 million reflecting an average price of 98 at December 31, 2010. Of this portfolio, 94% was investment grade (rated AAA through
BBB-) at December 31, 2010, with associated unrealized losses of $88.7 million. The unrealized losses on these securities can primarily be attributed to changes in market
interest rates and changes in credit spreads since the securities were acquired. 
        For
those securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position greater than or equal to twelve months, Principal Life's consolidated portfolio held 773 securities with a
carrying value of $5,801.9 million and unrealized losses of $1,349.6 million. The average rating of this portfolio was BBB with an average price of 81 at December 31, 2010. Of the
$1,349.6 million in unrealized losses, the commercial mortgage-backed securities sector accounts for $695.8 million in unrealized losses with an average price of 63 and an average credit
rating of BBB. The remaining unrealized losses consist primarily of $444.1 million within the corporate sector at December 31, 2010. The average
price of the corporate sector was 89 and the average credit rating was BBB. The unrealized losses on these securities can primarily be attributed to changes in market interest rates and changes in
credit spreads since the securities were acquired. 
        Because
we expected to recover our amortized cost, it was not our intent to sell the fixed maturity available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses and it was not more likely than
not that we would be required to sell these securities before recovery of the amortized cost, which may be maturity, we did not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at
December 31, 2010. 
109




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 4. Investments — (continued)  
 Net Unrealized Gains and Losses on Available-for-Sale Securities and Derivative Instruments  
        The net unrealized gains and losses on investments in fixed maturities available-for-sale, equity securities available-for-sale and
derivative instruments are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. The cumulative amount of net unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities and derivative
instruments net of adjustments related to DPAC, sales inducements, unearned revenue reserves, changes in policyholder liabilities and applicable income taxes was as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Net unrealized gains on fixed maturities, available-for-sale (1)
 
 $
1,920.6
 
 $
1,197.7
 


 Noncredit component of impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 (284.6
)
 
 (334.5
)


 Net unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 2.2
 
 
 (10.1
)


 Adjustments for assumed changes in amortization patterns
 
 
 (454.2
)
 
 (273.8
)


 Adjustments for assumed changes in policyholder liabilities
 
 
 (442.7
)
 
 (212.4
)


 Net unrealized gains on derivative instruments
 
 
 113.1
 
 
 53.5
 


 Net unrealized gains on equity method subsidiaries and noncontrolling interest adjustments
 
 
 150.4
 
 
 145.2
 


 Provision for deferred income taxes
 
 
 (327.0
)
 
 (169.0
)


 Effects of implementation of accounting change related to variable interest entities, net
 
 
 —
 
 
 10.7
 


 Effects of electing fair value option for fixed maturities upon implementation of accounting changes related to embedded credit derivatives,
net
 
 
 —
 
 
 25.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities and derivative instruments
 
 $
677.8
 
 $
432.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 







(1)Excludes
net unrealized gains (losses) on fixed maturities, available-for-sale included in fair value hedging relationships. 
 Mortgage Loans  
        Mortgage loans consist of commercial and residential mortgage loans. We evaluate risks inherent in our commercial mortgage loans in two
classes: (1) brick and mortar property loans, where we analyze the property's rent payments as support for the loan, and (2) credit tenant loans ("CTL"), where we rely on the credit
analysis of the tenant for the repayment of the loan. We evaluate risks inherent in our residential mortgage loan portfolio in two classes: (1) home equity mortgages and (2) first lien
mortgages. The carrying amount of our mortgage loan portfolio was as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Commercial mortgage loans
 
 $
9,461.4
 
 $
9,689.6
 


 Residential mortgage loans
 
 
 1,367.9
 
 
 1,556.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total amortized cost
 
 
 10,829.3
 
 
 11,246.2
 


 Valuation allowance
 
 
 (102.1
)
 
 (121.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total carrying value
 
 $
10,727.2
 
 $
11,125.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        We periodically purchase mortgage loans as well as sell mortgage loans we have originated. We purchased $101.0 million and
$39.8 million of residential mortgage loans during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We sold $18.4 million and $17.4 million of residential mortgage
loans and zero and $34.1 million of commercial mortgage loans during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        Our
commercial mortgage loan portfolio consists primarily of non-recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. Commercial mortgage loans represent a primary
area of credit risk exposure. 
110



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 4. Investments — (continued) 
        Our
commercial mortgage loan portfolio is diversified by geographic region and specific collateral property type as follows: 






















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Percent
of total 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Percent
of total 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 Geographic distribution
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 New England
 
 $
454.0
 
 
 4.8
%
 $
430.3
 
 
 4.5
%


 Middle Atlantic
 
 
 1,744.4
 
 
 18.4
 
 
 1,648.4
 
 
 17.0
 


 East North Central
 
 
 774.8
 
 
 8.2
 
 
 841.1
 
 
 8.7
 


 West North Central
 
 
 407.8
 
 
 4.3
 
 
 466.7
 
 
 4.8
 


 South Atlantic
 
 
 2,099.8
 
 
 22.2
 
 
 2,358.1
 
 
 24.3
 


 East South Central
 
 
 231.8
 
 
 2.4
 
 
 231.5
 
 
 2.4
 


 West South Central
 
 
 648.6
 
 
 6.9
 
 
 548.6
 
 
 5.7
 


 Mountain
 
 
 643.2
 
 
 6.8
 
 
 691.0
 
 
 7.1
 


 Pacific
 
 
 2,446.4
 
 
 25.9
 
 
 2,464.5
 
 
 25.4
 


 International
 
 
 10.6
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 9.4
 
 
 0.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
9,461.4
 
 
 100.0
%
 $
9,689.6
 
 
 100.0
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property type distribution
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Office
 
 $
2,753.8
 
 
 29.1
%
 $
2,886.2
 
 
 29.8
%


 Retail
 
 
 2,580.2
 
 
 27.3
 
 
 2,503.0
 
 
 25.8
 


 Industrial
 
 
 2,070.7
 
 
 21.9
 
 
 2,334.5
 
 
 24.1
 


 Apartments
 
 
 1,242.9
 
 
 13.1
 
 
 1,138.1
 
 
 11.7
 


 Hotel
 
 
 467.7
 
 
 4.9
 
 
 471.8
 
 
 4.9
 


 Mixed use/other
 
 
 346.1
 
 
 3.7
 
 
 356.0
 
 
 3.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
9,461.4
 
 
 100.0
%
 $
9,689.6
 
 
 100.0
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Our residential mortgage loan portfolio is composed of home equity mortgages with an amortized cost of $611.0 million and
$719.3 million and first lien mortgages with an amortized cost of $756.9 million and $837.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Most of our residential
home equity mortgages are concentrated in the United States and are generally second lien mortgages comprised of closed-end loans and lines of credit. The majority of our first lien loans are
concentrated in the Chilean market. 
 Mortgage Loan Credit Monitoring  
 Commercial Credit Risk Profile Based on Internal Rating  
        We actively monitor and manage our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. All commercial mortgage loans are analyzed regularly and
substantially all are internally rated, based on a proprietary risk rating cash flow model, in order to monitor the financial quality of these assets. The model stresses expected cash flows at various
levels and at different points in time depending on the durability of the income stream, which includes our assessment of factors such as location (macro and micro markets), tenant quality and lease
expirations. Our internal rating analysis presents expected losses in terms of an S&P bond equivalent rating. As the credit risk for commercial mortgage loans increases, we adjust our internal ratings
downwards with loans in the category "B+ and below" having the highest risk for credit loss. Internal ratings on commercial mortgage loans are updated at least annually and potentially more often for
certain loans with material changes in collateral value or occupancy and for loans on an internal "watch list". 
        Commercial
mortgage loans that require more frequent and detailed attention than other loans in our portfolio are identified and placed on an internal "watch list". Among the criteria
that would indicate a potential problem are imbalances in ratios of loan to value or contract rents to debt service, major tenant vacancies or bankruptcies, borrower sponsorship problems, late
payments, delinquent taxes and loan relief/restructuring requests. 
111



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 4. Investments — (continued) 
        Our
commercial mortgage loan portfolio by credit risk, as determined by our internal rating system expressed in terms of an S&P bond equivalent rating, was as follows: 



















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Brick and mortar 
 
CTL 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 A- and above
 
 $
5,682.5
 
 $
308.6
 
 $
5,991.1
 


 BBB+ thru BBB-
 
 
 2,112.3
 
 
 238.8
 
 
 2,351.1
 


 BB+ thru BB-
 
 
 403.7
 
 
 16.4
 
 
 420.1
 


 B+ and below
 
 
 693.3
 
 
 5.8
 
 
 699.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
8,891.8
 
 $
569.6
 
 $
9,461.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 



















 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Brick and mortar 
 
CTL 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 A- and above
 
 $
4,781.8
 
 $
324.7
 
 $
5,106.5
 


 BBB+ thru BBB-
 
 
 2,636.1
 
 
 249.5
 
 
 2,885.6
 


 BB+ thru BB-
 
 
 726.1
 
 
 38.5
 
 
 764.6
 


 B+ and below
 
 
 929.0
 
 
 3.9
 
 
 932.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
9,073.0
 
 $
616.6
 
 $
9,689.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Residential Credit Risk Profile Based on Performance Status  
        Our residential mortgage loan portfolio is monitored based on performance of the loans. Monitoring on a residential mortgage loan
increases when the loan is delinquent or earlier if there is an indication of impairment. We define non-performing residential mortgage loans as loans 90 days or greater delinquent or on
non-accrual status. 
        Our
performing and non-performing residential mortgage loans were as follows: 



















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Home equity 
 
First liens 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Performing
 
 $
597.8
 
 $
733.7
 
 $
1,331.5
 


 Nonperforming
 
 
 13.2
 
 
 23.2
 
 
 36.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
611.0
 
 $
756.9
 
 $
1,367.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 



















 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Home equity 
 
First liens 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Performing
 
 $
705.0
 
 $
811.6
 
 $
1,516.6
 


 Nonperforming
 
 
 14.3
 
 
 25.7
 
 
 40.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
719.3
 
 $
837.3
 
 $
1,556.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Non-Accrual Mortgage Loans  
        Commercial and residential mortgage loans are placed on non-accrual status if we have concern regarding the collectability of future
payments or if a loan has matured without being paid off or extended. Factors considered may include conversations with the borrower, loss of major tenant, bankruptcy of borrower or major tenant,
decreased property cash flow for commercial mortgage loans or number of days past due for residential mortgage loans. Based on an assessment as to the collectability of the principal, a determination
is made to apply any payments received either against the principal or according to the contractual terms of the loan. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrued unpaid interest
receivable is reversed against interest income. Accrual of interest resumes after factors resulting in doubts about collectability have improved. Residential first lien mortgages in the Chilean market
are carried on accrual for a longer period of delinquency than domestic loans, as assessment of collectability is based on the nature of the loans and collection practices in that market. 
112



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 4. Investments — (continued) 
        Mortgage
loans on non-accrual status were as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Brick and mortar
 
 $
46.8
 
 $
67.1
 


 Residential:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Home equity
 
 
 13.2
 
 
 14.3
 


 First liens
 
 
 15.7
 
 
 15.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
75.7
 
 $
97.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The aging of mortgage loans and mortgage loans that were 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest were as follows: 































 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
30-59 days
past due 
 
60-89 days
past due 
 
90 days or
more past
due 
 
Total
past due 
 
Current 
 
Total
loans 
 
Recorded
investment
90 days or
more and
accruing 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Commercial-brick and mortar
 
 $
61.4
 
 $
4.4
 
 $
22.5
 
 $
88.3
 
 $
8,803.5
 
 $
8,891.8
 
 $
—
 


 Commercial-CTL
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 569.6
 
 
 569.6
 
 
 —
 


 Residential-home equity
 
 
 7.8
 
 
 2.6
 
 
 6.2
 
 
 16.6
 
 
 594.4
 
 
 611.0
 
 
 —
 


 Residential-first liens
 
 
 15.8
 
 
 6.0
 
 
 22.2
 
 
 44.0
 
 
 712.9
 
 
 756.9
 
 
 7.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
85.0
 
 $
13.0
 
 $
50.9
 
 $
148.9
 
 $
10,680.4
 
 $
10,829.3
 
 $
7.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 































 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
30-59 days
past due 
 
60-89 days
past due 
 
90 days or
more past
due 
 
Total
past due 
 
Current 
 
Total
loans 
 
Recorded
investment
90 days or
more and
accruing 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Commercial-brick and mortar
 
 $
—
 
 $
22.5
 
 $
9.1
 
 $
31.6
 
 $
9,041.4
 
 $
9,073.0
 
 $
—
 


 Commercial-CTL
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 616.6
 
 
 616.6
 
 
 —
 


 Residential-home equity
 
 
 9.3
 
 
 4.5
 
 
 9.2
 
 
 23.0
 
 
 696.3
 
 
 719.3
 
 
 —
 


 Residential-first liens
 
 
 19.1
 
 
 8.5
 
 
 23.0
 
 
 50.6
 
 
 786.7
 
 
 837.3
 
 
 10.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
28.4
 
 $
35.5
 
 $
41.3
 
 $
105.2
 
 $
11,141.0
 
 $
11,246.2
 
 $
10.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance  
        We establish a valuation allowance to provide for the risk of credit losses inherent in our portfolio. The valuation allowance includes
loan specific reserves for loans that are deemed to be impaired as well as reserves for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property risk or market specific risk has not been
identified but for which we anticipate a loss may occur. Mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to
collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is established equal to the difference between the
carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value reduced by the cost to sell. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the
loan's effective interest rate, the loan's observable market price or fair value of the collateral. Subsequent changes in the estimated value are reflected in the valuation allowance. Amounts on loans
deemed to be uncollectible are charged off and removed from the valuation allowance. The change in the valuation allowance provision is included in net realized capital gains (losses) on our
consolidated statements of operations. 
        The
valuation allowance is maintained at a level believed adequate by management to absorb estimated probable credit losses. Management's periodic evaluation and assessment of the
valuation allowance adequacy is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect a borrower's ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral,
composition of the loan portfolio, portfolio delinquency information, underwriting standards, peer group information, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The
evaluation of our impaired loan component is subjective, as it requires the estimation of timing and amount of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. 
113




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 4. Investments — (continued)  

        We review our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and analyze the need for a valuation allowance for any loan that is delinquent for 60 days or more, in process of foreclosure,
restructured, on the internal "watch list" or that currently has a valuation allowance. In addition to establishing allowance levels for specifically identified impaired commercial mortgage loans,
management determines an allowance for all other loans in the portfolio for which historical experience and current economic conditions indicate certain losses exist. These loans are segregated by
major product type and/or risk level with an estimated loss ratio applied against each product type and/or risk level. The loss ratio is generally based upon historic loss experience for each loan
type as adjusted for certain environmental factors management believes to be relevant. 
        For
our residential mortgage loan portfolio, we separate the loans into several homogeneous pools, each of which consist of loans of a similar nature including but not limited to loans
similar in collateral, term and structure and loan purpose or type. We evaluate loan pools based on aggregated risk ratings, estimated specific loss potential in the different classes of credits, and
historical loss experience by pool type. We adjust these quantitative factors for qualitative factors of present conditions. Qualitative factors include items such as economic and business conditions,
changes in the portfolio, value of underlying collateral, and concentrations. Residential mortgage loan pools exclude loans that have been restructured or impaired, as those loans are evaluated
individually. 
        A
rollforward of our valuation allowance and ending balances of the allowance and loan balance by basis of impairment method was as follows: 



















 
 
Commercial 
 
Residential 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Beginning balance
 
 $
80.6
 
$
40.5
 
$
121.1
 


 Provision
 
 
 17.0
 
 
27.2
 
 
44.2
 


 Charge-offs
 
 
 (32.9
)
 
(33.4
)
 
(66.3
)


 Recoveries
 
 
 0.1
 
 
3.2
 
 
3.3
 


 Effect of exchange rates
 
 
 —
 
 
(0.2
)
 
(0.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ending balance
 
 $
64.8
 
$
37.3
 
$
102.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance ending balance by basis of impairment method:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Individually evaluated for impairment
 
 $
16.3
 
$
3.2
 
$
19.5
 


 Collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
 48.5
 
 
34.1
 
 
82.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance ending balance
 
 $
64.8
 
$
37.3
 
$
102.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loan balance by basis of impairment method:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Individually evaluated for impairment
 
 $
114.0
 
$
27.4
 
$
141.4
 


 Collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
 9,347.4
 
 
1,340.5
 
 
10,687.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loan ending balance
 
 $
9,461.4
 
$
1,367.9
 
$
10,829.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Beginning balance
 
$
132.5
 
$
30.1
 
$
162.6
 


 Provision
 
 
54.1
 
 
98.8
 
 
152.9
 


 Charge-offs
 
 
(106.0
)
 
(89.7
)
 
(195.7
)


 Recoveries
 
 
—
 
 
1.1
 
 
1.1
 


 Effect of exchange rates
 
 
—
 
 
0.2
 
 
0.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ending balance
 
$
80.6
 
$
40.5
 
$
121.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance ending balance by basis of impairment method:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
9.1
 
$
5.3
 
$
14.4
 


 Collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
71.5
 
 
35.2
 
 
106.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance ending balance
 
$
80.6
 
$
40.5
 
$
121.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loan balance by basis of impairment method:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
29.8
 
$
21.5
 
$
51.3
 


 Collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
9,659.8
 
 
1,535.1
 
 
11,194.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loan ending balance
 
$
9,689.6
 
$
1,556.6
 
$
11,246.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 December 31, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Beginning balance
 
$
57.0
 
$
12.9
 
$
69.9
 


 Provision
 
 
115.4
 
 
33.1
 
 
148.5
 


 Charge-offs/recoveries
 
 
(39.9
)
 
(16.1
)
 
(56.0
)


 Effect of exchange rates
 
 
—
 
 
0.2
 
 
0.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ending balance
 
$
132.5
 
$
30.1
 
$
162.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




114



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 4. Investments — (continued) 
 Impaired Mortgage Loans  
        Impaired mortgage loans are loans with a related specific valuation allowance, loans whose carrying amount has been reduced to the
expected collectible amount because the impairment has been considered other than temporary or a loan modification has been classified as a TDR. Based on an assessment as to the collectability of the
principal, a determination is made to apply any payments received either against the principal or according to the contractual terms of the loan. Our recorded investment in and unpaid principal
balance of impaired loans along with the related loan specific allowance for losses, if any, and the average recorded investment and interest income recognized during the time the loans were impaired
were as follows: 

























 
 
Recorded
investment 
 
Unpaid
principal
balance 
 
Related
allowance 
 
Average
recorded
investment 
 
Interest
income
recognized 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 For the year ended December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 With no related allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial-brick and mortar
 
 $
—
 
$
0.3
 
$
—
 
$
11.3
 
$
0.9
 


 Residential-first liens
 
 
 4.4
 
 
4.2
 
 
—
 
 
4.4
 
 
—
 


 With an allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial-brick and mortar
 
 
 114.0
 
 
114.0
 
 
16.3
 
 
79.0
 
 
1.0
 


 Residential-home equity
 
 
 14.5
 
 
14.2
 
 
1.9
 
 
12.6
 
 
0.8
 


 Residential-first liens
 
 
 8.5
 
 
8.5
 
 
1.3
 
 
9.6
 
 
0.2
 


 Total:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 $
114.0
 
$
114.3
 
$
16.3
 
$
90.3
 
$
1.9
 


 Residential
 
 $
27.4
 
$
26.9
 
$
3.2
 
$
26.6
 
$
1.0
 


 For the year ended December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 With no related allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial-brick and mortar
 
$
22.5
 
$
28.9
 
$
—
 
$
13.4
 
$
1.1
 


 Residential-first liens
 
 
5.3
 
 
5.2
 
 
—
 
 
5.3
 
 
—
 


 With an allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial-brick and mortar
 
 
29.8
 
 
29.7
 
 
9.1
 
 
77.2
 
 
1.8
 


 Residential-home equity
 
 
11.5
 
 
11.2
 
 
2.3
 
 
12.2
 
 
—
 


 Residential-first liens
 
 
10.0
 
 
9.9
 
 
3.0
 
 
16.2
 
 
—
 


 Total:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
$
52.3
 
$
58.6
 
$
9.1
 
$
90.6
 
$
2.9
 


 Residential
 
$
26.8
 
$
26.3
 
$
5.3
 
$
33.7
 
$
—
 


 For the year ended December 31, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
$
120.7
 
$
120.5
 
$
43.8
 
$
97.6
 
$
0.3
 


 Residential
 
$
13.5
 
$
18.0
 
$
7.3
 
$
15.3
 
$
—
 




 Mortgage Loan Modifications  
        Our commercial and residential mortgage loan portfolios include loans that have been modified. We assess loan modifications on a
case-by-case basis to evaluate whether a TDR has occurred. The commercial mortgage loan TDR was modified to delay principal payments and to reduce or delay interest payments. For this TDR assessment,
we have determined the loan rate is now considered below market based on current circumstances. The commercial mortgage loan modification resulted in delayed cash receipts and a decrease in interest
income. The residential mortgage loan TDRs include modifications of interest-only payment periods, delays in principal balloon payments, and interest rate reductions. Residential mortgage loan
modifications resulted in delayed or decreased cash receipts and a decrease in interest income. 
115



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 4. Investments — (continued) 
        The
following table includes information about outstanding loans that were modified and met the criteria of a TDR during the period. In addition, the table includes information for loans
that were modified and met the criteria of a TDR within the past twelve months that were in payment default during the period: 






















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
TDRs 
 
TDRs in payment
default 
 


 
 
Number of
contracts 
 
Recorded
investment 
 
Number of
contracts 
 
Recorded
investment 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Commercial-brick and mortar
 
 
 1
 
 $
4.4
 
 
 1
 
 $
4.4
 


 Residential-home equity
 
 
 151
 
 
 7.9
 
 
 6
 
 
 —
 


 Residential-first liens
 
 
 7
 
 
 1.6
 
 
 1
 
 
 0.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
 159
 
 $
13.9
 
 
 8
 
 $
4.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The commercial mortgage loan that has been designated as a TDR has been previously reserved for in the mortgage loan valuation allowance to the
estimated fair value of the underlying collateral reduced by the cost to sell. 
        Residential
mortgage loans that have been designated as a TDR are specifically reserved for in the mortgage loan valuation allowance if losses result from the modification. Residential
mortgage loans that have defaulted are reduced to the expected collectible amount. 
 Real Estate  
        Depreciation expense on invested real estate was $41.4 million, $41.1 million and $41.7 million in 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. Accumulated depreciation was $361.8 million and $331.2 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 Other Investments  
        Other investments include minority interests in unconsolidated entities, domestic and international joint ventures and partnerships and
properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. Such investments are generally accounted for using the equity method. In applying the equity method, we record our share of
income or loss reported by the equity investees in net investment income. Summarized financial information for these unconsolidated entities was as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Total assets
 
 $
38,213.8
 
 $
31,130.6
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 31,305.9
 
 
 25,257.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total equity
 
 $
6,907.9
 
 $
5,873.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net investment in unconsolidated entities
 
 $
928.3
 
 $
804.0
 




 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Total revenues
 
 $
5,574.6
 
 $
5,326.2
 
 $
4,235.9
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 4,849.8
 
 
 4,812.3
 
 
 4,228.2
 


 Net income
 
 
 719.3
 
 
 489.2
 
 
 312.7
 


 Our share of net income of unconsolidated entities
 
 
 116.5
 
 
 99.9
 
 
 79.0
 




        In addition, other investments include $507.5 million and $443.1 million of direct financing leases as of December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively. Our Chilean operations enter into private placement contracts for commercial, industrial and office space properties whereby our Chilean operations purchase the real estate
and/or building from the seller-lessee but then lease the property back to the seller-lessee. Ownership of the property is transferred to the lessee by the end of the lease term. The direct financing
lease receivables are carried at amortized cost. We actively monitor and manage our direct financing leases. All leases within the portfolio are analyzed regularly and internally rated, based on
financial condition, payment history and loan-to-value. 
116




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 4. Investments — (continued)  

        Derivative assets are carried at fair value and reported as a component of other investments. Certain seed money investments are also carried at fair value and reported as a component of
other investments, with changes in fair value included in net realized capital gains (losses) on our consolidated statements of operations. 
 Securities Posted as Collateral  
        We posted $1,469.5 million in fixed maturities, available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2011, to satisfy collateral
requirements primarily associated with a reinsurance arrangement, our derivative credit support annex (collateral) agreements and our obligation under funding agreements with the Federal Home Loan
Bank of Des Moines ("FHLB Des Moines"). In addition, we posted $1,683.2 million in commercial mortgage loans as of December 31, 2011, to satisfy collateral requirements associated with
our obligation under funding agreements with the FHLB Des Moines. Since we did not relinquish ownership rights on these instruments,
they are reported as fixed maturities, available-for-sale and mortgage loans, respectively, on our consolidated statements of financial position. 
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments  

        Derivatives are generally used to hedge or reduce exposure to market risks associated with assets held or expected to be purchased or sold and liabilities incurred or expected to be
incurred. Derivatives are used to change the characteristics of our asset/liability mix consistent with our risk management activities. Derivatives are also used in asset replication strategies. 
 Types of Derivative Instruments  
 Interest Rate Contracts  
        Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. Sources of interest rate
risk include the difference between the maturity and interest rate changes of assets with the liabilities they support, timing differences between the pricing of liabilities and the purchase or
procurement of assets and changing cash flow profiles from original projections due to prepayment options embedded within asset and liability contracts. We use various derivatives to manage our
exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. 
        Interest
rate swaps are contracts in which we agree with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts based
upon designated market rates or rate indices and an agreed upon notional principal amount. Generally, no cash is exchanged at the outset of the contract and no principal payments are made by either
party. Cash is paid or received based on the terms of the swap. These transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty
at each due date. We use interest rate swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities and to mitigate the risks arising from timing mismatches
between assets and liabilities (including duration mismatches). We also use interest rate swaps to hedge against changes in the value of assets we anticipate acquiring and other anticipated
transactions and commitments. Interest rate swaps are used to hedge against changes in the value of the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") liability. The GMWB
rider on our variable annuity products provides for guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits regardless of the actual performance of various equity and/or fixed income funds available with the product. 
        Interest
rate caps and interest rate floors, which can be combined to form interest rate collars, are contracts that entitle the purchaser to pay or receive the amounts, if any, by which
a specified market rate exceeds a cap strike interest rate, or falls below a floor strike interest rate, respectively, at specified dates. We have entered into interest rate collars whereby we receive
amounts if a specified market rate falls below a floor strike interest rate, and we pay if a specified market rate exceeds a cap strike interest rate. We use interest rate collars to manage interest
rate risk related to guaranteed minimum interest rate liabilities in our individual annuities contracts. 
        A
swaption is an option to enter into an interest rate swap at a future date. We purchase swaptions to offset existing exposures. Swaptions provide us the benefit of the agreed-upon
strike rate if the market rates for liabilities are higher, with the flexibility to enter into the current market rate swap if the market rates for liabilities are lower. Swaptions not only hedge
against the downside risk, but also allow us to take advantage of any upside benefits. 
        In
exchange-traded futures transactions, we agree to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the values of which are determined by the values of designated classes of
securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the difference in the daily market values of those contracts. We enter into exchange-traded futures with regulated
futures commissions merchants who are members of a trading exchange. We have used exchange-traded futures to reduce market risks from changes in interest rates and to alter mismatches between the
assets in a portfolio and the liabilities supported by those assets. 
117



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments — (continued) 
 Foreign Exchange Contracts  
        Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
This risk arises from foreign currency-denominated funding agreements we issue, foreign currency-denominated fixed maturities we invest in and our investment in and net income of our international
operations. We may use currency swaps and currency forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. 
        Currency
swaps are contracts in which we agree with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, a series of principal and interest payments in one currency for that of another
currency. Generally, the principal amount of each currency is exchanged at the beginning and termination of the currency swap by each party. The interest payments are primarily fixed-to-fixed rate;
however, they may also be fixed-to-floating rate or floating-to-fixed rate. These transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one
counterparty for payments made in the same currency at each due date. We use currency swaps to reduce market risks from changes in currency exchange rates with respect to investments or liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies that we either hold or intend to acquire or sell. 
        Currency
forwards are contracts in which we agree with other parties to deliver a specified amount of an identified currency at a specified future date. Typically, the price is agreed
upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at the specified future date. We use currency forwards to reduce market risks from changes in currency exchange rates with
respect to investments or liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that we either
hold or intend to acquire or sell. We have also used currency forwards to hedge the currency risk associated with net investments in foreign operations. We did not use any currency forwards during
2011 or 2010 to hedge our net investment in foreign operations. 
 Equity Contracts  
        Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in common stock. We use various derivatives to
manage our exposure to equity risk, which arises from products in which the interest we credit is tied to an external equity index as well as products subject to minimum contractual guarantees. 
        We
may sell an investment-type insurance contract with attributes tied to market indices (an embedded derivative as noted below), in which case we write an equity call option to convert
the overall contract into a fixed-rate liability, essentially eliminating the equity component altogether. We purchase equity call spreads to hedge the equity participation rates promised to
contractholders in conjunction with our fixed deferred annuity products that credit interest based on changes in an external equity index. We use exchange-traded futures and equity put options to
hedge against changes in the value of the GMWB liability related to the GMWB rider on our variable annuity product, as previously explained. The premium associated with certain options is paid
quarterly over the life of the option contract. 
        Total
return swaps are contracts in which we agree with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, an amount determined by the difference between the previous price and the
current price of a reference asset based upon an agreed upon notional principal amount plus an additional amount determined by the financing spread. We currently use total return swaps where the
reference asset is an equity index to hedge our portfolio from potential credit losses. 
 Credit Contracts  
        Credit risk relates to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal
and interest. We use credit default swaps to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by providing comparable exposure to fixed income securities that might not be available in the primary
market. They are also used to hedge credit exposures in our investment portfolio. Credit derivatives are used to sell or buy credit protection on an identified name or names on an unfunded or
synthetic basis in return for receiving or paying a quarterly premium. The premium generally corresponds to a referenced name's credit spread at the time the agreement is executed. In cases where we
sell protection, at the same time we enter into these synthetic transactions, we buy a quality cash bond to match against the credit default swap. When selling protection, if there is an event of
default by the referenced name, as defined by the agreement, we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced security in a principal
amount equal to the notional value of the credit default swap. 
 Other Contracts  
         Embedded Derivatives.    We purchase or issue certain financial instruments or products that contain a derivative instrument that
is embedded in the
financial instrument or product. When it is determined that the embedded derivative possesses economic characteristics that are not clearly or closely related to the economic characteristics of the
host contract and a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded 
118



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments — (continued) 
derivative
is bifurcated from the host instrument for measurement purposes. The embedded derivative, which is reported with the host instrument in the consolidated statements of financial position, is
carried at fair value. 
        We
sell investment-type insurance contracts in which the return is tied to an external equity index, a leveraged inflation index or leveraged reference swap. We economically hedge the
risk associated with these investment-type insurance contracts. 
        We
offer group benefit plan contracts that have guaranteed separate accounts as an investment option. We also offer a guaranteed fund as an investment option in our defined contribution
plans in Hong Kong. 
        We
have structured investment relationships with trusts we have determined to be VIEs, which are consolidated in our financial statements. The notes issued by these trusts include
obligations to deliver an underlying security to residual interest holders and the obligations contain an embedded derivative of the forecasted transaction to deliver the underlying security. 
        We
have fixed deferred annuities that credit interest based on changes in an external equity index. We also have certain variable annuity products with a GMWB rider, which provides that
the contractholder will receive at least their principal deposit back through withdrawals of up to a specified annual amount, even if the account value is reduced to zero. Declines in the equity
markets may increase our exposure to benefits under contracts with the GMWB. We economically hedge the exposure in these annuity contracts, as previously explained. 
 Exposure  
        Our risk of loss is typically limited to the fair value of our derivative instruments and not to the notional or contractual amounts of
these derivatives. We are also exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance of the counterparties. Our current credit exposure is limited to the value of derivatives that have become
favorable to us. This credit risk is minimized by purchasing such agreements from financial institutions with high credit ratings and by establishing and monitoring exposure limits. We also utilize
various credit enhancements, including collateral and credit triggers to reduce the credit exposure to our derivative instruments. 
        Our
derivative transactions are generally documented under International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ("ISDA") Master Agreements. Management believes that such agreements
provide for legally enforceable set-off and close-out netting of exposures to specific counterparties. Under such agreements, in connection with an early termination of a transaction, we are permitted
to set off our receivable from a counterparty against our payables to
the same counterparty arising out of all included transactions. For reporting purposes, we do not offset fair value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to
return cash collateral against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparties under master netting agreements. 
        We
posted $502.4 million and $376.8 million in cash and securities under collateral arrangements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, to satisfy
collateral requirements associated with our derivative credit support agreements. 
        Certain
of our derivative instruments contain provisions that require us to maintain an investment grade rating from each of the major credit rating agencies on our debt. If the rating
on our debt were to fall below investment grade, it would be in violation of these provisions and the counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment or demand immediate
and ongoing full overnight collateralization on derivative instruments in net liability positions. The aggregate fair value, inclusive of accrued interest, of all derivative instruments with
credit-risk-related contingent features that were in a liability position without regard to netting under derivative credit support annex agreements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, was
$1,484.0 million and $1,262.0 million, respectively. With respect to these derivatives, we posted collateral of $502.4 million and $376.8 million as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively, in the normal course of business, which reflects netting under derivative credit support annex agreements. If the credit-risk-related contingent features underlying these
agreements were triggered on December 31, 2011, we would be required to post an additional $48.1 million of collateral to our counterparties. 
        As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had received $237.0 million and $249.2 million, respectively, of cash collateral associated with our derivative credit support
annex agreements, for which we recorded a corresponding liability reflecting our obligation to return the collateral. 
        Notional
amounts are used to express the extent of our involvement in derivative transactions and represent a standard measurement of the volume of our derivative activity. Notional
amounts represent those amounts used to calculate contractual flows to be exchanged and are not paid or received, except for contracts such as currency swaps. 
119



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments — (continued) 
Credit
exposure represents the gross amount owed to us under derivative contracts as of the valuation date. The notional amounts and credit exposure of our derivative financial instruments by type
were as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Notional amounts of derivative instruments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest rate contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest rate swaps
 
 $
19,498.3
 
 $
19,803.0
 


 Futures
 
 
 522.0
 
 
 0.8
 


 Interest rate collars
 
 
 500.0
 
 
 500.0
 


 Swaptions
 
 
 68.5
 
 
 68.5
 


 Foreign exchange contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Foreign currency swaps
 
 
 3,919.8
 
 
 4,615.2
 


 Currency forwards
 
 
 147.3
 
 
 72.3
 


 Equity contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Options
 
 
 1,608.4
 
 
 997.5
 


 Futures
 
 
 270.3
 
 
 —
 


 Total return swaps
 
 
 15.0
 
 
 —
 


 Credit contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Credit default swaps
 
 
 1,530.3
 
 
 1,482.4
 


 Other contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Embedded derivative financial instruments
 
 
 4,921.7
 
 
 3,991.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total notional amounts at end of period
 
 $
33,001.6
 
 $
31,531.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Credit exposure of derivative instruments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest rate contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest rate swaps
 
 $
752.2
 
 $
607.1
 


 Interest rate collars
 
 
 38.5
 
 
 1.7
 


 Swaptions
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.1
 


 Foreign exchange contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Foreign currency swaps
 
 
 318.6
 
 
 493.2
 


 Currency forwards
 
 
 1.5
 
 
 3.3
 


 Equity contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Options
 
 
 120.3
 
 
 64.9
 


 Credit contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Credit default swaps
 
 
 14.0
 
 
 6.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total gross credit exposure
 
 
 1,245.1
 
 
 1,177.0
 


 Less: collateral received
 
 
 237.0
 
 
 249.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net credit exposure
 
 $
1,008.1
 
 $
927.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




120




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments — (continued)  

        The fair value of our derivative instruments classified as assets and liabilities was as follows: 






















 
 
Derivative assets (1) 
 
Derivative liabilities (2) 
 


 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest rate contracts
 
 $
0.2
 
 $
66.6
 
 $
500.9
 
 $
405.4
 


 Foreign exchange contracts
 
 
 267.2
 
 
 390.8
 
 
 158.4
 
 
 142.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments
 
 $
267.4
 
 $
457.4
 
 $
659.3
 
 $
547.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest rate contracts
 
 $
730.9
 
 $
488.4
 
 $
651.5
 
 $
459.5
 


 Foreign exchange contracts
 
 
 38.5
 
 
 65.8
 
 
 42.7
 
 
 60.4
 


 Equity contracts
 
 
 120.3
 
 
 64.9
 
 
 1.0
 
 
 31.7
 


 Credit contracts
 
 
 14.0
 
 
 6.7
 
 
 169.5
 
 
 171.7
 


 Other contracts
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 336.0
 
 
 145.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
 
 $
903.7
 
 $
625.8
 
 $
1,200.7
 
 $
869.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total derivative instruments
 
 $
1,171.1
 
 $
1,083.2
 
 $
1,860.0
 
 $
1,416.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







(1)The
fair value of derivative assets is reported with other investments on the consolidated statements of financial position.
(2)The
fair value of derivative liabilities is reported with other liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial position, with the exception of
certain embedded derivative liabilities. Embedded derivative liabilities with a fair value of $195.8 million and $6.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively, are reported with contractholder funds on the consolidated statements of financial position. 
 Credit Derivatives Sold  
        When we sell credit protection, we are exposed to the underlying credit risk similar to purchasing a fixed maturity security
instrument. The majority of our credit derivative contracts sold reference a single name or reference security (referred to as "single name credit default swaps"). The remainder of our credit
derivatives reference either a basket or index of securities. These instruments are either referenced in an over-the-counter credit derivative transaction, or embedded within an investment structure
that has been fully consolidated into our financial statements. 
        These
credit derivative transactions are subject to events of default defined within the terms of the contract, which normally consist of bankruptcy, failure to pay, or modified
restructuring of the reference entity and/or issue. If a default event occurs for a reference name or security, we are obligated to pay the counterparty an amount equal to the notional amount of the
credit derivative transaction. As a result, our maximum future payment is equal to the notional amount of the credit derivative. In certain cases, we also have purchased credit protection with
identical underlyings to certain of our sold protection transactions. The effect of this purchased protection would reduce our total maximum future payments by $20.0 million and
$10.0 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These purchased credit derivative transactions had a net asset (liability) fair value of zero and $(0.8) million as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In certain circumstances, our potential loss could also be reduced by any amount recovered in the default proceedings of the underlying credit name. 
        We
purchased certain investment structures with embedded credit features that are fully consolidated into our financial statements. This consolidation results in recognition of the
underlying credit derivatives and collateral within the structure, typically high quality fixed maturities that are owned by a special purpose vehicle. These credit derivatives reference a single name
or several names in a basket structure. In the event of default, the collateral within the structure would typically be liquidated to pay the claims of the credit derivative counterparty. 
        The
following tables show our credit default swap protection sold by types of contract, types of referenced/underlying asset class and external agency rating for the underlying reference
security. The maximum future payments 
121



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments — (continued) 
are
undiscounted and have not been reduced by the effect of any offsetting transactions, collateral or recourse features described above. 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Notional
amount 
 
Fair
value 
 
Maximum
future
payments 
 
Weighted
average
expected life
(in years) 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 


 Single name credit default swaps
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Corporate debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 AA
 
 $
85.0
 
 $
(1.0
)
 $
85.0
 
 
 4.0
 


 A
 
 
 483.0
 
 
 (1.4
)
 
 483.0
 
 
 2.5
 


 BBB
 
 
 110.0
 
 
 (0.3
)
 
 110.0
 
 
 1.7
 


 CCC
 
 
 10.0
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 10.0
 
 
 0.2
 


 Structured finance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 C
 
 
 10.0
 
 
 (8.9
)
 
 10.0
 
 
 10.1
 


 Near default
 
 
 12.9
 
 
 (12.8
)
 
 12.9
 
 
 1.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total single name credit default swaps
 
 
 710.9
 
 
 (24.5
)
 
 710.9
 
 
 2.6
 


 Basket and index credit default swaps
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Corporate debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 CCC
 
 
 132.4
 
 
 (104.7
)
 
 132.4
 
 
 5.2
 


 CC
 
 
 15.0
 
 
 (14.8
)
 
 15.0
 
 
 1.0
 


 Government/municipalities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 A
 
 
 40.0
 
 
 (10.5
)
 
 40.0
 
 
 4.4
 


 Structured finance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 BBB
 
 
 25.0
 
 
 (11.0
)
 
 25.0
 
 
 5.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total basket and index credit default swaps
 
 
 212.4
 
 
 (141.0
)
 
 212.4
 
 
 4.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total credit default swap protection sold
 
 $
923.3
 
 $
(165.5
)
 $
923.3
 
 
 3.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 






















 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Notional
amount 
 
Fair
value 
 
Maximum
future
payments 
 
Weighted
average
expected life
(in years) 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 


 Single name credit default swaps
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Corporate debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 AA
 
$
135.0
 
$
(0.5
)
$
135.0
 
 
3.9
 


 A
 
 
564.0
 
 
0.9
 
 
564.0
 
 
2.9
 


 BBB
 
 
150.0
 
 
0.3
 
 
150.0
 
 
1.1
 


 Structured finance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 B
 
 
25.9
 
 
(20.0
)
 
25.9
 
 
5.9
 


 CCC
 
 
22.0
 
 
(18.4
)
 
22.0
 
 
9.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total single name credit default swaps
 
 
896.9
 
 
(37.7
)
 
896.9
 
 
3.0
 


 Basket and index credit default swaps
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Corporate debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 A
 
 
6.0
 
 
—
 
 
6.0
 
 
1.0
 


 CCC
 
 
125.0
 
 
(103.0
)
 
125.0
 
 
6.2
 


 CC
 
 
15.0
 
 
(8.5
)
 
15.0
 
 
2.0
 


 Government/municipalities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 A
 
 
40.0
 
 
(11.2
)
 
40.0
 
 
5.4
 


 Structured finance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 AA
 
 
20.0
 
 
(2.0
)
 
20.0
 
 
4.4
 


 BBB
 
 
5.0
 
 
(0.3
)
 
5.0
 
 
14.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total basket and index credit default swaps
 
 
211.0
 
 
(125.0
)
 
211.0
 
 
5.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total credit default swap protection sold
 
$
1,107.9
 
$
(162.7
)
$
1,107.9
 
 
3.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        We also have invested in fixed maturities classified as available-for-sale that contain credit default swaps that do not require bifurcation and
fixed maturities classified as trading that contain credit default swaps. These securities are subject to the credit risk of the issuer, normally a special purpose vehicle, which consists of the
underlying credit default swaps 
122



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments — (continued) 
and
high quality fixed maturities that serve as collateral. A default event occurs if the cumulative losses exceed a specified attachment point, which is typically not the first loss of the portfolio.
If a default event occurs that exceeds the specified attachment point, our investment may not be fully returned. We would have no future potential payments under these investments. The following
tables show, by the types of referenced/underlying asset class and external rating, our fixed maturities with embedded credit derivatives. 



















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
value 
 
Weighted
average
expected life
(in years) 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 


 Corporate debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 BB
 
 $
14.7
 
 $
14.7
 
 
 5.0
 


 CCC
 
 
 25.0
 
 
 20.8
 
 
 1.5
 


 CC
 
 
 3.7
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 4.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total corporate debt
 
 
 43.4
 
 
 36.2
 
 
 2.9
 


 Structured finance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 AA
 
 
 9.3
 
 
 9.3
 
 
 6.4
 


 BBB
 
 
 27.4
 
 
 24.5
 
 
 4.5
 


 BB
 
 
 15.0
 
 
 13.9
 
 
 2.5
 


 B
 
 
 11.2
 
 
 11.2
 
 
 5.4
 


 CCC
 
 
 3.5
 
 
 3.6
 
 
 4.8
 


 CC
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 5.3
 


 C
 
 
 0.2
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 8.2
 


 Near default
 
 
 0.2
 
 
 0.2
 
 
 4.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total structured finance
 
 
 67.5
 
 
 63.5
 
 
 4.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities with credit derivatives
 
 $
110.9
 
 $
99.7
 
 
 3.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 



















 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Amortized
cost 
 
Carrying
value 
 
Weighted
average
expected life
(in years) 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 


 Corporate debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 BB
 
$
18.1
 
$
18.1
 
 
6.0
 


 CCC
 
 
50.0
 
 
46.2
 
 
2.1
 


 CC
 
 
12.1
 
 
1.6
 
 
4.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total corporate debt
 
 
80.2
 
 
65.9
 
 
3.4
 


 Structured finance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 AA
 
 
5.2
 
 
5.2
 
 
5.8
 


 BBB
 
 
26.8
 
 
23.1
 
 
5.5
 


 BB
 
 
15.5
 
 
15.0
 
 
3.7
 


 B
 
 
10.5
 
 
10.5
 
 
6.4
 


 CCC
 
 
9.2
 
 
8.7
 
 
5.9
 


 C
 
 
13.5
 
 
5.8
 
 
12.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total structured finance
 
 
80.7
 
 
68.3
 
 
6.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities with credit derivatives
 
$
160.9
 
$
134.2
 
 
5.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




123




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments — (continued)  
 Fair Value Hedges  
        We use fixed-to-floating rate interest rate swaps to more closely align the interest rate characteristics of certain assets and
liabilities. In general, these swaps are used in asset and liability management to modify duration, which is a measure of sensitivity to interest rate changes. 
        We
enter into currency exchange swap agreements to convert certain foreign denominated assets and liabilities into U.S. dollar floating-rate denominated instruments to eliminate the
exposure to future currency volatility on those items. 
        We
also sell callable investment-type insurance contracts and use cancellable interest rate swaps to hedge the changes in fair value of the callable feature. 
        The
net interest effect of interest rate swap and currency swap transactions for derivatives in fair value hedges is recorded as an adjustment to income or expense of the underlying
hedged item in our consolidated statements of operations. 
        Hedge
effectiveness testing for fair value relationships is performed utilizing a regression analysis approach for both prospective and retrospective evaluations. This regression
analysis will consider multiple data points for the assessment that the hedge continues to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. In certain periods, the comparison of the
change in value of the derivative and the change in the value of the hedged item may not be offsetting at a specific period in time due to small movements in value. However, any amounts recorded as
fair value hedges have shown to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value both for present and future periods. 
        The
following table shows the effect of derivatives in fair value hedging relationships and the related hedged items on the consolidated statements of operations. All gains or losses on
derivatives were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. 






























 
 
Amount of gain (loss)
recognized in
net income on derivatives for the year ended
December 31, (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Amount of gain (loss)
recognized in net income on related hedged item for the year ended December 31, (1) 
 


Derivatives in fair value
hedging relationships 
 
Hedged items in fair value
hedging relationships 
 


 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 
(in millions)
 


 Interest rate contracts
 
 $
(108.5
)
 $
(100.2
)
 $
308.6
 
  Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
105.4
 
 $
106.4
 
 $
(264.0
)


 Interest rate contracts
 
 
 (2.2
)
 
 (19.2
)
 
 (30.8
)
  Investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
 2.4
 
 
 20.6
 
 
 46.9
 


 Foreign exchange contracts
 
 
 1.1
 
 
 6.9
 
 
 4.8
 
  Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 (1.3
)
 
 (5.6
)
 
 (6.0
)


 Foreign exchange contracts
 
 
 (25.6
)
 
 (23.3
)
 
 82.4
 
  Investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
 25.7
 
 
 18.1
 
 
 (86.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
(135.2
)
 $
(135.8
)
 $
365.0
 
  Total
 
 $
132.2
 
 $
139.5
 
 $
(309.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)The
gain (loss) on both derivatives and hedged items in fair value relationships is reported in net realized capital gains (losses) on the consolidated
statements of operations. The net amount represents the ineffective portion of our fair value hedges. 

        The following table shows the periodic settlements on interest rate contracts and foreign exchange contracts in fair value hedging relationships. 



















 
 
Amount of gain (loss)
for the year ended December 31, 
 


Hedged Item 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale (1)
 
 $
(158.9
)
 $
(161.9
)
 $
(143.5
)


 Investment-type insurance contracts (2)
 
 
 44.0
 
 
 76.3
 
 
 106.2
 








(1)Reported
in net investment income on the consolidated statements of operations.
(2)Reported
in benefits, claims and settlement expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. 

 Cash Flow Hedges  
        We utilize floating-to-fixed rate interest rate swaps to eliminate the variability in cash flows of recognized financial assets and
liabilities and forecasted transactions. 
        We
enter into currency exchange swap agreements to convert both principal and interest payments of certain foreign denominated assets and liabilities into U.S. dollar denominated
fixed-rate instruments to eliminate the exposure to future currency volatility on those items. 
124



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments — (continued) 
        The
net interest effect of interest rate swap and currency swap transactions for derivatives in cash flow hedges is recorded as an adjustment to income or expense of the underlying
hedged item in our consolidated statements of operations. 
        The
maximum length of time that we are hedging our exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions, excluding those related to the payments of variable
interest on existing financial assets and liabilities, is 8.5 years. At December 31, 2011, we had $135.1 million of net gains reported in AOCI on the consolidated statements of
financial position related to active hedges of forecasted transactions. If a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring, cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued. If it is
probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will not occur, the deferred gain or loss is immediately reclassified from OCI into net income. No amounts were reclassified from AOCI into net realized
capital gains (losses) as a result of the determination that hedged cash flows were probable of not occurring during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. During the year ended
December 31, 2009, $40.4 million of gross unrealized losses were reclassified from AOCI into net realized capital gains (losses) as a result of the determination that hedged cash flows
of a forecasted liability issuance were probable of not occurring. 
        The
following table shows the effect of derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships on the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of financial position. All
gains or losses on derivatives were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. 
































 
 
 
 
Amount of gain
(loss) recognized
in AOCI on
derivatives (effective
portion) for the year
ended December 31, 
 
 
 
Amount of gain
(loss) reclassified
from AOCI on
derivatives (effective
portion) for the year
ended December 31, 
 


 
 
 
 
Location of gain (loss)
reclassified from AOCI
into net income
(effective portion) 
 


Derivatives in cash flow
hedging relationships



 
Related hedged item 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 
(in millions)
 


 Interest rate contracts
 
  Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
107.1
 
 $
(18.1
)
 $
(124.4
)
  Net investment income
 
 $
7.2
 
 $
7.1
 
 $
4.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Net realized capital gains (losses)
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 8.0
 
 
 —
 


 Interest rate contracts
 
  Investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
 (1.0
)
 
 18.4
 
 
 112.3
 
  Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 (0.8
)
 
 (0.8
)
 
 (0.8
)


 Interest rate contracts
 
  Debt
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 30.6
 
  Operating expense
 
 
 (5.3
)
 
 (4.7
)
 
 (2.5
)


 Foreign exchange contracts
 
  Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 29.9
 
 
 136.7
 
 
 (216.8
)
  Net realized capital gains (losses)
 
 
 (20.4
)
 
 (41.6
)
 
 (15.5
)


 Foreign exchange contracts
 
  Investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
 12.8
 
 
 (24.0
)
 
 126.7
 
  Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 (1.7
)
 
 (6.1
)
 
 (5.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Net realized capital gains (losses)
 
 
 —
 
 
 (0.7
)
 
 (4.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
 
 $
148.8
 
 $
113.0
 
 $
(71.6
)
  Total
 
 $
(21.2
)
 $
(38.8
)
 $
(23.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The following table shows the periodic settlements on interest rate contracts and foreign exchange contracts in cash flow hedging relationships. 



















 
 
Amount of gain (loss)
for the year ended
December 31, 
 


Hedged Item 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale (1)
 
 $
9.3
 
 $
11.1
 
 $
16.9
 


 Investment-type insurance contracts (2)
 
 
 (13.1
)
 
 (12.5
)
 
 (20.0
)








(1)Reported
in net investment income on the consolidated statements of operations.
(2)Reported
in benefits, claims and settlement expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. 

        The ineffective portion of our cash flow hedges is reported in net realized capital gains (losses) on the consolidated statements of operations.
The net loss resulting from the ineffective portion of interest rate contracts in cash flow hedging relationships was zero for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The net gain
resulting from the ineffective portion of foreign currency contracts in cash flow hedging relationships was $0.5 million, $0.9 million and $2.2 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
125



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 5. Derivative Financial Instruments — (continued) 
        We
expect to reclassify net losses of $2.2 million from AOCI into net income in the next 12 months, which includes both net deferred gains on discontinued hedges and net
deferred losses on periodic settlements of active hedges. Actual amounts may vary from this amount as a result of market conditions. 
 Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments  
        Our use of futures, certain swaptions and swaps, collars, options and forwards are effective from an economic standpoint, but they have
not been designated as hedges for financial reporting purposes. As such, periodic changes in the fair value of these instruments, which includes mark-to-market gains and losses as well as periodic and
final settlements, primarily flow directly into net realized capital gains (losses) on the consolidated statements of operations. Gains and losses on certain derivatives used in relation to certain
trading portfolios are reported in net investment income on the consolidated statements of operations. 
        The
following tables show the effect of derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, including fair value changes of embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated from the host
contract, on the consolidated statements of operations. 



















 
 
Amount of gain (loss)
recognized in net income
on derivatives for the year
ended December 31, 
 


Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Interest rate contracts
 
 $
93.3
 
 $
24.8
 
 $
(58.7
)


 Foreign exchange contracts
 
 
 (34.1
)
 
 (73.5
)
 
 87.9
 


 Equity contracts
 
 
 55.2
 
 
 (24.0
)
 
 (107.7
)


 Credit contracts
 
 
 (9.9
)
 
 5.1
 
 
 61.7
 


 Other contracts (1)
 
 
 (200.4
)
 
 (8.8
)
 
 21.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
(95.9
)
 $
(76.4
)
 $
4.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)The
increase in the loss recognized in net income primarily relates to the change in fair value of the GMWB embedded derivative that is primarily related to
market risk impacts (including spread reflecting improvement in our own creditworthiness). 

 6. Closed Block  

        In connection with the 1998 MIHC formation, Principal Life formed a Closed Block to provide reasonable assurance to policyholders included therein that, after the formation of the MIHC,
assets would be available to maintain dividends in aggregate in accordance with the 1997 policy dividend scales, if the experience underlying such scales continued. Assets of Principal Life were
allocated to the Closed Block in an amount that produces cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from policies and contracts included in the Closed Block, were expected to be sufficient to
support the Closed Block policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for payment of claims, certain expenses, charges and taxes, and to provide for continuation of policy and contract
dividends in aggregate in accordance with the 1997 dividend scales, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and to allow for appropriate adjustments in such scales, if such experience
changes. Due to adjustable life policies being included in the Closed Block, the Closed Block is charged with amounts necessary to properly fund for certain adjustments, such as face amount and
premium increases, that are made to these policies after the Closed Block inception date. These amounts are referred to as Funding Adjustment Charges and are treated as capital transfers from the
Closed Block. 
        Assets
allocated to the Closed Block inure solely to the benefit of the holders of policies included in the Closed Block. Closed Block assets and liabilities are carried on the same
basis as other similar assets and liabilities. Principal Life will continue to pay guaranteed benefits under all policies, including the policies within the Closed Block, in accordance with their
terms. If the assets allocated to the Closed Block, the investment cash flows from those assets and the revenues from the policies included in the Closed Block, including investment income thereon,
prove to be insufficient to pay the benefits guaranteed under the policies included in the Closed Block, Principal Life will be
required to make such payments from their general funds. No additional policies were added to the Closed Block, nor was the Closed Block affected in any other way, as a result of the demutualization. 
        A
policyholder dividend obligation ("PDO") is required to be established for earnings in the Closed Block that are not available to stockholders. A model of the Closed Block was
established to produce the pattern of expected earnings in the Closed Block, adjusted to eliminate the impact of related amounts in AOCI. 
126




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 6. Closed Block — (continued)  

        If actual cumulative earnings of the Closed Block are greater than the expected cumulative earnings of the Closed Block, only the expected cumulative earnings will be recognized in
income with the excess recorded as a PDO. This PDO represents undistributed accumulated earnings that will be paid to Closed Block policyholders as additional policyholder dividends unless offset by
future performance of the Closed Block that is less favorable than originally expected. If actual cumulative performance is less favorable than expected, only actual earnings will be recognized in
income. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, cumulative actual earnings have been less than cumulative expected earnings. However, cumulative net unrealized gains were greater than expected,
resulting in the recognition of a PDO of $3.1 million as of December 31, 2011. We had no PDO liability as of December 31, 2010. 
        Closed
Block liabilities and assets designated to the Closed Block were as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Closed Block liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Future policy benefits and claims
 
 $
4,829.6
 
 $
5,003.1
 


 Other policyholder funds
 
 
 20.6
 
 
 21.7
 


 Policyholder dividends payable
 
 
 283.2
 
 
 294.2
 


 Policyholder dividends obligation
 
 
 3.1
 
 
 —
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 35.9
 
 
 79.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Closed Block liabilities
 
 
 5,172.4
 
 
 5,398.2
 


 Assets designated to the Closed Block
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 2,744.7
 
 
 2,833.7
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 23.2
 
 
 29.5
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 6.1
 
 
 11.2
 


 Mortgage loans
 
 
 691.0
 
 
 677.9
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 697.7
 
 
 725.4
 


 Other investments
 
 
 172.5
 
 
 163.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total investments
 
 
 4,335.2
 
 
 4,441.2
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 3.0
 
 
 —
 


 Accrued investment income
 
 
 59.6
 
 
 64.3
 


 Premiums due and other receivables
 
 
 13.8
 
 
 17.9
 


 Deferred income tax asset
 
 
 42.0
 
 
 60.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets designated to the Closed Block
 
 
 4,453.6
 
 
 4,583.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Excess of Closed Block liabilities over assets designated to the Closed Block
 
 
 718.8
 
 
 814.6
 


 Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 68.2
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Maximum future earnings to be recognized from Closed Block assets and liabilities
 
 $
787.0
 
 $
847.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




127



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 6. Closed Block — (continued) 
        Closed Block revenues and expenses were as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
428.8
 
 $
459.3
 
 $
508.6
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 238.2
 
 
 257.6
 
 
 268.6
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses)
 
 
 7.9
 
 
 1.8
 
 
 (23.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 674.9
 
 
 718.7
 
 
 753.7
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 370.7
 
 
 385.5
 
 
 422.1
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 204.2
 
 
 215.1
 
 
 235.9
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 2.9
 
 
 6.4
 
 
 6.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 577.8
 
 
 607.0
 
 
 664.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Closed Block revenues, net of Closed Block expenses, before income taxes
 
 
 97.1
 
 
 111.7
 
 
 88.9
 


 Income taxes
 
 
 31.2
 
 
 36.2
 
 
 28.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Closed Block revenues, net of Closed Block expenses and income taxes
 
 
 65.9
 
 
 75.5
 
 
 60.8
 


 Funding adjustment charges
 
 
 (5.3
)
 
 (9.6
)
 
 (6.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Closed Block revenues, net of Closed Block expenses, income taxes and funding adjustment charges
 
 $
60.6
 
 $
65.9
 
 $
54.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The change in maximum future earnings of the Closed Block was as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Beginning of year
 
 $
847.6
 
 $
913.5
 
 $
967.7
 


 End of year
 
 
 787.0
 
 
 847.6
 
 
 913.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Change in maximum future earnings
 
 $
(60.6
)
 $
(65.9
)
 $
(54.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Principal Life charges the Closed Block with federal income taxes, payroll taxes, state and local premium taxes and other state or local taxes,
licenses and fees as provided in the plan of reorganization. 
 7. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs  

        Policy acquisition costs deferred and amortized were as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Balance at beginning of year
 
 $
3,529.8
 
 $
3,681.4
 
 $
4,153.0
 


 Cost deferred during the year
 
 
 520.5
 
 
 496.3
 
 
 482.4
 


 Amortized to expense during the year (1)
 
 
 (538.0
)
 
 (205.9
)
 
 (92.2
)


 Adjustment related to unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities and derivative instruments
 
 
 (198.8
)
 
 (442.0
)
 
 (861.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at end of year
 
 $
3,313.5
 
 $
3,529.8
 
 $
3,681.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Includes
adjustments for revisions to estimated gross profits. 

128



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 8. Insurance Liabilities  
 Contractholder Funds  
        Major components of contractholder funds in the consolidated statements of financial position are summarized as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Liabilities for investment-type insurance contracts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 GICs
 
 $
11,355.0
 
 $
10,013.6
 


 Funding agreements
 
 
 8,850.1
 
 
 10,226.9
 


 Other investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
 789.7
 
 
 758.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities for investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
 20,994.8
 
 
 20,999.1
 


 Liabilities for individual annuities
 
 
 11,609.5
 
 
 11,721.0
 


 Universal life and other reserves
 
 
 5,072.1
 
 
 4,581.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total contractholder funds
 
 $
37,676.4
 
 $
37,301.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Our GICs and funding agreements contain provisions limiting or prohibiting early surrenders, which typically include penalties for early
surrenders, minimum notice requirements or, in the case of funding agreements with survivor options, minimum pre-death holding periods and specific maximum amounts. 
        Funding
agreements include those issued directly to nonqualified institutional investors, as well as under five separate programs where the funding agreements have been issued directly
or indirectly to unconsolidated special purpose entities. Claims for principal and interest under funding agreements are afforded equal priority to claims of life insurance and annuity policyholders
under insolvency provisions of Iowa Insurance Laws. 
        Principal
Life was authorized to issue up to $4.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in 1998 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an
unaffiliated entity in non-U.S. markets. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $1,377.2 million and $2,055.4 million, respectively, of liabilities are outstanding with respect to the
issuance outstanding under this program. Principal Life was also authorized to issue up to Euro 4.0 billion (approximately USD$5.3 billion) of funding agreements under a program
established in 2006 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an unaffiliated entity in non-U.S. markets. The unaffiliated entity is an unconsolidated special purpose vehicle. As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, $1,305.7 million and $1,340.0 million, respectively, of liabilities are outstanding with respect to issuances outstanding under this program. Principal
Life does not anticipate any new issuance activity under either of these programs due to the existence of the program established in 2011 described below. 
        In
addition, Principal Life was authorized to issue up to $7.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in 2001 to support the prospective issuance of medium term
notes by an unaffiliated entity in both domestic and international markets. The unaffiliated entity is an unconsolidated special purpose entity. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
$2,205.0 million and $2,224.7 million, respectively, of liabilities are being held with respect to issuances outstanding under this program. Principal Life does not anticipate any new
issuance activity under this program, given our December 2005 termination of the dealership agreement for this program and the availability of the program established in 2011 described below. 
        Additionally,
Principal Life was authorized to issue up to $4.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in March 2004 to support the prospective issuance of
medium term notes by unaffiliated entities in both domestic and international markets. In February 2006, this program was amended to authorize issuance of up to an additional $5.0 billion in
recognition of the use of nearly all $4.0 billion of initial issuance authorization. In recognition of the use of nearly all $9.0 billion, this program was amended in November 2007 to
authorize issuance of up to an additional $5.0 billion. Under this program, both the notes and the supporting funding agreements were registered with the SEC. As of December 31, 2011 and
2010, $2,452.5 million and $3,597.8 million, respectively, of liabilities are being held with respect to issuances outstanding under this program. In contrast with direct funding
agreements, GIC issuances and the other three funding agreement-backed medium term note programs described above, Principal Life's payment obligations on each funding agreement issued under this
SEC-registered program are guaranteed by PFG. Principal Life does not anticipate any new issuance activity under this program due to the existence of the program established in 2011 described below. 
        Principal
Life was authorized to issue up to $2.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in 2011 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an
unaffiliated entity in both domestic and international markets. The unaffiliated entity is an unconsolidated special purpose entity. As of December 31, 2011, $250.2 million of
liabilities are being held with respect to any issuances outstanding under this program. Similar to the SEC-registered 
129



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 8. Insurance Liabilities — (continued) 
program,
Principal Life's payment obligations on each funding agreement issued under this program are guaranteed by PFG. The program established in 2011 is not registered with the SEC. 
        We
had no medium term note issuances in 2009 and 2010. 
 Future Policy Benefits and Claims  
        Activity associated with unpaid disability and health claims is summarized as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Balance at beginning of year
 
 $
1,061.8
 
 $
1,025.6
 
 $
991.8
 


 Incurred:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current year
 
 
 1,074.0
 
 
 1,611.9
 
 
 1,888.3
 


 Prior years
 
 
 (10.8
)
 
 11.1
 
 
 (33.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total incurred
 
 
 1,063.2
 
 
 1,623.0
 
 
 1,854.9
 


 Payments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current year
 
 
 820.8
 
 
 1,269.4
 
 
 1,507.1
 


 Prior years
 
 
 297.3
 
 
 317.4
 
 
 314.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total payments
 
 
 1,118.1
 
 
 1,586.8
 
 
 1,821.1
 


 Balance at end of year:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current year
 
 
 253.2
 
 
 342.5
 
 
 381.2
 


 Prior years
 
 
 753.7
 
 
 719.3
 
 
 644.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total balance at end of year
 
 $
1,006.9
 
 $
1,061.8
 
 $
1,025.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Supplemental information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Claim adjustment expense liabilities
 
 $
42.9
 
 $
42.7
 
 $
40.7
 


 Reinsurance recoverables
 
 
 1.1
 
 
 1.6
 
 
 3.7
 




        Incurred liability adjustments relating to prior years, which affected current operations during 2011, 2010 and 2009, resulted in part from
developed claims for prior years being different than were anticipated when the liabilities for unpaid disability and health claims were originally estimated. These trends have been considered in
establishing the current year liability for unpaid disability and health claims. 
 9. Debt  
 Short-Term Debt  
        The components of short-term debt were as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Commercial paper
 
 $
50.0
 
 $
50.0
 


 Other recourse short-term debt
 
 
 55.2
 
 
 57.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total short-term debt
 
 $
105.2
 
 $
107.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of
$725.0 million and $719.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had $105.2 million and $107.9 million, respectively, of outstanding borrowings
related to our credit facilities, with $24.9 million of assets pledged as support as of December 31, 2011. As of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, our credit facilities included a
$579.0 million commercial paper program, of which $50.0 million was outstanding as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010. Our commercial paper program has a back-stop facility to
provide 100% support for our commercial paper program, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        The
weighted-average interest rates on short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, were 3.8% and 1.5%, respectively. 
130



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 9. Debt — (continued) 
 Long-Term Debt  
        The components of long-term debt were as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 7.875% notes payable, due 2014
 
 $
400.0
 
 $
400.0
 


 3.76% notes payable, due 2015
 
 
 89.9
 
 
 102.8
 


 8.875% notes payable, due 2019
 
 
 350.0
 
 
 350.0
 


 6.05% notes payable, due 2036
 
 
 601.7
 
 
 601.7
 


 8% surplus notes payable, due 2044
 
 
 99.3
 
 
 99.3
 


 Non-recourse mortgages and notes payable
 
 
 23.9
 
 
 29.5
 


 Other mortgages and notes payable
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total long-term debt
 
 $
1,564.8
 
 $
1,583.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The amounts included above are net of the discount and premium associated with issuing these notes, which are being amortized to expense over
their respective terms using the interest method. 
        On
November 3, 2010, Principal International de Chile S.A., a wholly owned indirect subsidiary, entered into a long-term borrowing agreement with Banco de Chile in the
amount of US $98.9 million. This debt is denominated in Unidades de Formento ("UF"), a Chilean inflation-indexed, peso-denominated monetary unit. The note bears interest at UF +3.76% and will
mature on November 3, 2015. Interest on the note is payable semi-annually on May 3 and November 3 each year. This borrowing agreement consolidated and modified the terms of US
$93.9 million of notes with two Chilean banks that were scheduled to mature on November 3, 2011. The debt outstanding and interest expense will vary due to fluctuations in the Chilean
peso to US dollar exchange rates and Chilean inflation. 
        On
May 18, 2009, we issued $750.0 million of senior notes. We issued a $400.0 million series of notes that bear interest at 7.875% and will mature on May 15,
2014, and a $350.0 million series of notes that bear interest at 8.875% and will mature on May 15, 2019. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 each year, beginning on November 15, 2009. The proceeds were primarily used to refinance $440.9 million of notes that matured on August 15, 2009, with the
remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. 
        On
October 16 and December 5, 2006, we issued $500.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, of senior notes. The notes bear interest at a rate of 6.05% per
year. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 each year and began on April 15, 2007. The notes will mature on October 15, 2036. A portion
of the proceeds were used to fund the 2006 acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc., with the remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. 
        On
March 10, 1994, Principal Life issued $100.0 million of surplus notes due March 1, 2044, at an 8% annual interest rate. None of our affiliates hold any portion of
the notes. Each payment of interest and principal on the notes, however, may be made only with the prior approval of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Iowa (the "Commissioner") and only to
the extent that Principal Life has sufficient surplus earnings to make such payments. Interest of $8.0 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approved
by the Commissioner, and charged to expense. 
        Subject
to Commissioner approval, the notes due March 1, 2044, may be redeemed at Principal Life's election on or after March 1, 2014, in whole or in part at a redemption
price of approximately 102.3% of par. The approximate 2.3% premium is scheduled to gradually diminish over the following ten years. These notes may be redeemed on or after March 1, 2024, at a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount plus interest accrued to the date of redemption. 
        The
non-recourse mortgages, other mortgages and notes payable are primarily financings for real estate developments. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2011, ranged
from $5.6 million to $8.7 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 5.5% to 5.8%. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2010, ranged from
$5.8 million to $8.9 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 5.5% to 5.8%. Outstanding debt is secured by the underlying real estate properties, which were
reported as real estate on our consolidated statements of financial position with a carrying value of $29.5 million and $29.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. 
        Also
included in non-recourse mortgages and notes payable is a long-term debt obligation we assumed with the purchase of WM Advisors, Inc. As part of the purchase, we are bound by a
class B share financing agreement previously entered into by WM Advisors, Inc. and a third party. Load mutual fund shares sold without a front end load are referred to as "B shares". In
exchange for paying the selling commission, we receive fees in the future to
recover the up-front commission cost incurred. Prior to our purchase, WM Advisors, Inc. had entered into a purchase and sale agreement 
131



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 9. Debt — (continued) 
whereby
the third party would purchase the rights to future cash flow streams in exchange for funding the sales commissions. The fair value of these relinquished fees is reported as a long-term debt
liability. There will be no additional sales under this agreement following the effective date of the purchase. Therefore, this liability will be extinguished in 2014, which equates to the remaining
contractual term in which the fund can recover fees to cover the upfront commission costs. The value of this obligation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, was $3.5 million and
$8.4 million, respectively. 
        At
December 31, 2011, future annual maturities of the long-term debt were as follows (in millions): 













Year ending December 31:
 
 
 


 2012
 
 $
2.7
 


 2013
 
 
 9.8
 


 2014
 
 
 406.1
 


 2015
 
 
 95.1
 


 2016
 
 
 —
 


 Thereafter
 
 
 1,051.1
 


 
 
 
 


 Total future maturities of the long-term debt
 
 $
1,564.8
 


 
 
 
 




 10. Income Taxes  
 Income Tax Expense  
        Our income tax expense was as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Current income taxes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. federal
 
 $
115.4
 
 $
74.1
 
 $
97.7
 


 State and foreign
 
 
 51.4
 
 
 34.2
 
 
 19.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current income taxes
 
 
 166.8
 
 
 108.3
 
 
 117.1
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
 69.6
 
 
 15.8
 
 
 (17.0
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total income taxes
 
 $
236.4
 
 $
124.1
 
 $
100.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Effective Income Tax Rate  
        Our provision for income taxes may not have the customary relationship of taxes to income. A reconciliation between the U.S. corporate
income tax rate and the effective income tax rate is as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 U.S. corporate income tax rate
 
 
 35
%
 
 35
%
 
 35
%


 Dividends received deduction
 
 
 (8
)
 
 (10
)
 
 (10
)


 Impact of equity method presentation
 
 
 (4
)
 
 (6
)
 
 (5
)


 Interest exclusion from taxable income
 
 
 (3
)
 
 (3
)
 
 (3
)


 Impact of court ruling on some uncertain tax positions
 
 
 6
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Other
 
 
 (2
)
 
 (1
)
 
 (4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effective income tax rate
 
 
 24
%
 
 15
%
 
 13
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




132




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 10. Income Taxes — (continued)  
 Unrecognized Tax Benefits  
        A summary of the changes in unrecognized tax benefits follows. 
















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Balance at beginning of year
 
 $
54.8
 
 $
54.5
 


 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
 
 
 1.5
 
 
 1.5
 


 Additions for tax positions of prior years
 
 
 67.1
 
 
 1.2
 


 Reductions for tax positions related to the current year
 
 
 (1.8
)
 
 (2.4
)


 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
 
 
 (7.3
)
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at end of year (1)
 
 $
114.3
 
 $
54.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Of
this amount, $75.8 million, if recognized, would reduce the 2011 effective income tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to
uncertain tax positions in operating expenses. 

        As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had recognized $43.8 million and $23.4 million of accumulated pre-tax interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits, respectively. 
 Net Deferred Income Taxes  
        Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our net deferred income taxes were as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Deferred income tax assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Insurance liabilities
 
 $
80.7
 
 $
245.2
 


 Investments, including derivatives
 
 
 659.2
 
 
 622.0
 


 Net operating and capital loss carryforwards
 
 
 358.6
 
 
 326.4
 


 Postretirement benefits
 
 
 503.3
 
 
 327.8
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
 72.6
 
 
 71.0
 


 Other deferred income tax assets
 
 
 64.4
 
 
 15.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross deferred income tax assets
 
 
 1,738.8
 
 
 1,607.6
 


 Valuation allowance
 
 
 (1.3
)
 
 (1.0
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred income tax assets
 
 
 1,737.5
 
 
 1,606.6
 


 Deferred income tax liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
 (1,051.7
)
 
 (1,084.6
)


 Investments, including derivatives
 
 
 (488.9
)
 
 (425.7
)


 Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 (423.3
)
 
 (188.6
)


 Real estate
 
 
 (103.3
)
 
 (115.6
)


 Intangible assets
 
 
 (144.6
)
 
 (108.1
)


 Other deferred income tax liabilities
 
 
 (43.6
)
 
 (80.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred income tax liabilities
 
 
 (2,255.4
)
 
 (2,003.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total net deferred income tax liabilities
 
 $
(517.9
)
 $
(396.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 




        No valuation allowance was provided on the deferred income tax asset attributable to the net unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities as
of December 31, 2011. 
133



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 10. Income Taxes — (continued) 
        Net
deferred income taxes by jurisdiction are as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Deferred income tax assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 State
 
 $
2.9
 
 $
1.8
 


 International
 
 
 12.6
 
 
 11.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net deferred income tax assets
 
 
 15.5
 
 
 13.0
 


 Deferred income tax liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. 
 
 
 (381.2
)
 
 (264.1
)


 International
 
 
 (152.2
)
 
 (145.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net deferred income tax liabilities
 
 
 (533.4
)
 
 (409.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total net deferred income tax liabilities
 
 $
(517.9
)
 $
(396.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 




        In management's judgment, total deferred income tax assets are more likely than not to be realized. Included in the deferred income tax asset is
the net operating loss carryforward for tax purposes available to offset future taxable income. Domestic state net operating loss carryforwards were $282.7 million as of December 31,
2011, and will expire between 2015 and 2031. Foreign net operating loss carryforwards generated in various foreign countries were $59.0 million as of December 31, 2011, with some
operating loss carryforwards scheduled to expire beginning in 2013
while others never expire. We maintain valuation allowances by jurisdiction against the deferred income tax assets related to certain of these carryforwards, as utilization of these income tax
benefits fail the more likely than not criteria in certain jurisdictions. A valuation allowance has been recorded on income tax benefits associated with state net operating loss carryforwards and
foreign net operating loss carryforwards. Adjustments to the valuation allowance will be made if there is a change in management's assessment of the amount of the deferred income tax assets that are
more likely than not to be realized. 
        Accumulated
net operating losses of $931.5 million and $640.8 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are attributed to captive reinsurance companies
that are temporarily excluded from our consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. These net operating losses will expire between 2021 and 2026. One of the captive reinsurance companies will join the
consolidated U.S. federal income tax return in 2012, with the other in 2013. All accumulated net operating losses are anticipated to be utilized before expiration. Therefore, no valuation allowance
has been provided for the deferred income tax assets attributable to these net operating losses. 
        U.S.
federal and state deferred income taxes have not been provided on approximately $585.5 million of accumulated but undistributed earnings from operations of foreign
subsidiaries at December 31, 2011. These earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the business. It is not practical to determine the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax
liability that would arise if these earnings were remitted due to foreign tax credits and exclusions that may become available at the time of remittance. Deferred taxes were also not provided on the
approximately $106.2 million of excess book carrying value over tax basis with respect to the original investment of our foreign subsidiaries. A tax liability will be recognized when we no
longer plan to indefinitely reinvest these earnings or when we plan to sell all or a portion of our ownership interest. 
 Other Tax Information  
        The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has completed examination of our consolidated federal income tax returns for years prior to 2004.
We are contesting certain issues and have filed suit in the Court of Federal Claims, requesting refunds for the years 1995-2003. We had $263.2 million and $230.9 million of
current income tax receivables associated with outstanding audit issues reported as other assets in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. We do not expect the litigation to be resolved within the next twelve months. 
        The
IRS completed its examinations of tax years 2004 through 2005 and 2006 through 2008 during the second quarter of 2011 resulting in receipt of notices of deficiency dated
April 6, 2011 and April 27, 2011, respectively. We paid the deficiencies (approximately $62.1 million for 2004 and 2005 and approximately $46.7 million for 2006 and 2008,
including interest) in 2011 and will file claims for refund relating to disputed adjustments. The IRS commenced audit of our federal income tax return for 2009 during the fourth quarter of 2011 and
indicated it will commence audit of 2010 during the first quarter of 2012 after completion of required training on Schedule UTP, the Uncertain Tax Provision Statement. We do not expect the results of
these audits or developments in other tax areas for all open tax years to significantly change the possible increase in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits, but the outcome of tax reviews is
uncertain and unforeseen results can occur. 
        The
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Iowa issued a decision in the case of Pritired 1, LLC ("Pritired"), and Principal Life Insurance Co. v. United States on
September 30, 2011. The court ruled that the securities 
134



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 10. Income Taxes — (continued) 
Pritired
held should be characterized as debt, not equity, and thus Principal Life was not entitled to foreign tax credits for the years 2002 and 2003. Pritired and Principal Life are seeking
clarification from the court but have not yet decided whether to appeal this ruling. This ruling caused a re-evaluation of our uncertain tax positions and related interest accruals, which
resulted in a $68.9 million reduction to net income in the third quarter of 2011. 
        We
believe it is reasonably possible that the amount of our unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by $0.0 million to $28.5 million within the next twelve months. This
uncertainty is associated with our investment in a transaction that gave rise to foreign tax credits. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested
issues, but final resolution of the contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not expect the ultimate resolution of issues from tax years
1995-2003 to have a material impact on our net income. Similarly, we believe there are adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, any challenges that might arise in tax years subsequent
to 2003. 
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits  

        We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S. employees and certain agents. Some of these plans provide supplemental pension benefits to employees and
agents with salaries and/or pension benefits in excess of the qualified plan limits imposed by federal tax law. The employees and agents are generally first eligible for the pension plans when they
reach age 21. For plan participants employed prior to January 1, 2002, the pension benefits are based on the greater of a final average pay benefit or a cash balance benefit. The final average
pay benefit is based on the years of service and generally the employee's or agent's average annual compensation during the last five years of employment. Partial benefit accrual of final average pay
benefits is recognized from first eligibility until retirement based on attained service divided by potential service to age 65 with a minimum of 35 years of potential service. The cash balance
portion of the plan started on January 1, 2002. An employee's account is credited with an amount based on the employee's salary, age and service. These credits accrue with interest. For plan
participants hired on and after January 1, 2002, only the cash balance plan applies. Our policy is to fund the cost of providing pension benefits in the years that the employees and agents are
providing service to us. Our funding policy for the qualified defined benefit plan is to contribute an amount annually at least equal to the minimum annual contribution required under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"), and, generally, not greater than the maximum amount that can be deducted for federal income tax purposes. Our funding policy for the nonqualified benefit plan
is to fund the plan in the years that the employees are providing service, taking into account the funded status of the trust. While we designate assets to cover the computed liability of the
nonqualified plan, the assets are not included as part of the asset balances presented in this footnote as they do not qualify as plan assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 
        We
also provide certain health care, life insurance and long-term care benefits for retired employees. Subsidized retiree health benefits are provided for employees hired prior to
January 1, 2002. Employees hired after December 31,
2001, have access to retiree health benefits but it is intended that they pay for the full cost of the coverage. The health care plans are contributory with participants' contributions adjusted
annually. The contributions are based on the number of years of service and age at retirement for those hired prior to January 1, 2002, who retired prior to January 1, 2011. For
employees hired prior to January 1, 2002, who retired on or after January 1, 2011, the contributions are 60% of the expected cost. As part of the substantive plan, the retiree health
contributions are assumed to be adjusted in the future as claim levels change. The life insurance plans are contributory for a small group of previously grandfathered participants that have elected
supplemental coverage and dependent coverage. 
        Covered
employees are first eligible for the health and life postretirement benefits when they reach age 57 and have completed ten years of service with us. Retiree long-term care
benefits are provided for employees whose retirement was effective prior to July 1, 2000. Our policy is to fund the cost of providing retiree benefits in the years that the employees are
providing service, taking into account the funded status of the trust. 
135




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued)  
 Obligations and Funded Status  
        The plans' combined funded status, reconciled to amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position and
consolidated statements of operations, was as follows: 






















 
 
Pension benefits 
 
Other
postretirement
benefits 
 


 
 
December 31, 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Change in benefit obligation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
 
 $
(1,933.8
)
 $
(1,797.4
)
 $
(162.6
)
 $
(360.1
)


 Service cost
 
 
 (44.0
)
 
 (45.6
)
 
 (1.2
)
 
 (8.8
)


 Interest cost
 
 
 (108.5
)
 
 (105.7
)
 
 (8.9
)
 
 (18.1
)


 Actuarial gain (loss)
 
 
 (151.3
)
 
 (59.6
)
 
 2.6
 
 
 62.5
 


 Participant contributions
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (6.4
)
 
 (6.0
)


 Benefits paid
 
 
 73.6
 
 
 70.2
 
 
 13.9
 
 
 15.3
 


 Amount recognized due to special events
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (0.4
)
 
 (0.2
)


 Plan amendment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 153.6
 


 Early retiree reinsurance program reimbursement
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (1.2
)
 
 —
 


 Other
 
 
 5.6
 
 
 4.3
 
 
 (0.9
)
 
 (0.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefit obligation at end of year
 
 $
(2,158.4
)
 $
(1,933.8
)
 $
(165.1
)
 $
(162.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Change in plan assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
 
 $
1,417.7
 
 $
1,250.3
 
 $
471.7
 
 $
421.5
 


 Actual return on plan assets
 
 
 4.1
 
 
 181.1
 
 
 1.3
 
 
 58.1
 


 Employer contribution
 
 
 80.8
 
 
 56.5
 
 
 1.1
 
 
 1.4
 


 Participant contributions
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 6.4
 
 
 6.0
 


 Benefits paid
 
 
 (73.6
)
 
 (70.2
)
 
 (13.9
)
 
 (15.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
 
 $
1,429.0
 
 $
1,417.7
 
 $
466.6
 
 $
471.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Amount recognized in statement of financial position
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other assets
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
301.7
 
 $
309.4
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 (729.4
)
 
 (516.1
)
 
 (0.2
)
 
 (0.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
(729.4
)
 $
(516.1
)
 $
301.5
 
 $
309.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Amount recognized in accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total net actuarial loss
 
 $
660.0
 
 $
469.7
 
 $
40.1
 
 $
10.2
 


 Prior service benefit
 
 
 (30.5
)
 
 (41.6
)
 
 (114.1
)
 
 (148.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss
 
 $
629.5
 
 $
428.1
 
 $
(74.0
)
 $
(138.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $2,027.8 million and $1,811.7 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        Employer
contributions to the pension plans include contributions made directly to the qualified pension plan assets and contributions from corporate assets to pay nonqualified pension
benefits. Benefits paid from the pension plans include both qualified and nonqualified plan benefits. Nonqualified pension plan assets are not included as part of the asset balances presented in this
footnote. The nonqualified pension plan assets are held in Rabbi trusts for the benefit of all nonqualified plan participants. The assets held in a Rabbi trust are available to satisfy the claims of
general creditors only in the event of bankruptcy. Therefore, these assets are fully consolidated in our consolidated statements of financial position and are not reflected in our funded status as
they do not qualify as plan assets under U.S. GAAP. The market value of assets held in these trusts was $281.2 million and $265.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. 
 Pension Plan Changes and Plan Gains/Losses  
        On January 1, 2010, benefits under the Principal Pension Plan were frozen for certain participants. 
        For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the pension plans had a loss primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate and less than expected asset returns. The net result was an
actuarial loss for the year ended December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the pension plans had a loss primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate and a change in
the mortality assumption. The plans also had a gain resulting from greater than expected asset returns. The net result was an actuarial loss for the year ended December 31, 2010. 
136



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued) 
 Other Postretirement Plan Changes and Plan Gains/Losses  
        On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the "Medicare Modernization
Act") was signed into law. The Medicare Modernization Act introduced a prescription drug benefit under Medicare ("Medicare Part D") as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree medical
benefit plans. During each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Medicare subsidies we received and accrued for were $0.9 million, $0.8 million and
$0.8 million, respectively. 
        An
actuarial gain occurred during 2011 for the other postretirement benefit plans. This was due to a decrease in the claim cost assumptions and greater than expected increase in the
medical premium equivalents. This was partially offset by the decrease in the discount rate. An actuarial gain occurred during 2010 for the other postretirement benefit plans. This was due to a
decrease in the trend and claim cost assumptions and greater than expected increase in the medical premium equivalents. This was partially offset by the decrease in the discount rate. 
 Impact of Amendment to Retiree Health Benefits  
        In September 2010, an amendment to retiree health benefits was announced. This amendment, which is effective for individuals retiring
on or after January 1, 2011, resulted in a plan remeasurement as of September 30, 2010. Under this amendment, the company-paid subsidy for pre-Medicare-eligible coverage will be 40% and
the cost of coverage for Medicare-eligible retirees (or their dependents) will no longer be subsidized. Prior
to amendment, the subsidy calculation was complex and varied based on age and service with the company at the time of retirement. In addition to the changes for individuals retiring on or after
January 1, 2011, the plan was simplified to a single consolidated plan design, the coordination with Medicare was changed for certain post-1984 retirees and the method for determining the
premium equivalent rate was changed to be based solely on retiree experience. For the remeasurement of the retiree health benefits as of September 30, 2010, the assumptions used were a 5.40%
discount rate to determine the benefit obligation; a 7.25% weighted-average expected long-term return on plan assets used to determine the net periodic benefit cost; and a health care cost initial
trend rate of 9.5% pre-Medicare and 9.0% post-Medicare, decreasing to an ultimate rate of 5.0% in the year 2022. The plan amendment resulted in a $153.6 million reduction to the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation as of September 30, 2010. The plan amendment and remeasurement resulted in a $14.0 million reduction in the 2010 net periodic postretirement benefit
cost, which was reflected in the fourth quarter of 2010. 
 Impact from Exit of Group Medical Insurance Business  
        On September 30, 2010, we announced our decision to exit the group medical insurance business and entered into an agreement with
United Healthcare Services, Inc. to renew medical insurance coverage for our customers as the business transitions. Our exit from the group medical insurance business resulted in a curtailment
associated with the pension and other postretirement benefits of the impacted employees. We have determined that the curtailment will result in a gain, which was recognized quarterly in our
consolidated financial statements as impacted employees were terminated. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the curtailment gain recognized was $0.9 million for the pension benefits and
$2.6 million for the other postretirement benefits from the accelerated recognition of the existing prior service benefits. Also in the fourth quarter of 2010, the recognition of terminations
resulted in a $0.2 million increase in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation resulting from losses associated with individuals who were retirement eligible at termination exceeding
the gains associated with those individuals who were not retirement eligible at termination. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the curtailment gain recognized was $1.4 million for
the pension benefits and $5.1 million for the other postretirement benefits, respectively, from the accelerated recognition of the existing prior service benefits. 
 Information for Pension Plans With an Accumulated Benefit Obligation in Excess of Plan Assets  
        For 2011 and 2010, both the qualified and nonqualified plans had accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. As noted
previously, the nonqualified plans have assets that are deposited in trusts that fail to meet the U.S. GAAP requirements to be included in plan assets; however, these assets are included in our
consolidated statements of financial position. 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Projected benefit obligation
 
 $
2,158.4
 
 $
1,933.8
 


 Accumulated benefit obligation
 
 
 2,027.8
 
 
 1,811.7
 


 Fair value of plan assets
 
 
 1,429.0
 
 
 1,417.7
 




137



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued) 
 Information for Other Postretirement Benefit Plans With an Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation in Excess of Plan Assets  
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
 
 $
1.5
 
 $
1.5
 


 Fair value of plan assets
 
 
 1.3
 
 
 1.4
 




 Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost  




























 
 
Pension benefits 
 
Other postretirement benefits 
 


 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Service cost
 
 $
44.0
 
 $
45.6
 
 $
51.4
 
 $
1.2
 
 $
8.8
 
 $
11.3
 


 Interest cost
 
 
 108.5
 
 
 105.7
 
 
 100.8
 
 
 8.9
 
 
 18.1
 
 
 19.7
 


 Expected return on plan assets
 
 
 (114.4
)
 
 (98.4
)
 
 (79.5
)
 
 (34.1
)
 
 (30.6
)
 
 (25.9
)


 Amortization of prior service benefit
 
 
 (9.7
)
 
 (10.1
)
 
 (7.7
)
 
 (29.3
)
 
 (9.1
)
 
 (2.1
)


 Recognized net actuarial loss
 
 
 65.7
 
 
 67.6
 
 
 92.6
 
 
 0.4
 
 
 4.1
 
 
 9.3
 


 Amount recognized due to special events
 
 
 (1.4
)
 
 (0.9
)
 
 —
 
 
 (5.1
)
 
 (2.6
)
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net periodic benefit cost (income)
 
 $
92.7
 
 $
109.5
 
 $
157.6
 
 $
(58.0
)
 $
(11.3
)
 $
12.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The pension plans' actuarial gains and losses are amortized using a straight-line amortization method over the average remaining service period of
plan participants. For the qualified pension plan, gains and losses are amortized without use of the 10% allowable corridor. For the nonqualified pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans,
the corridors allowed are used. 






















 
 
Pension
benefits 
 
Other
postretirement
benefits 
 


 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Other changes recognized in accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net actuarial (gain) loss
 
 $
256.0
 
 $
(27.5
)
 $
30.6
 
 $
(89.8
)


 Prior service benefit
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (153.7
)


 Amortization of net loss
 
 
 (65.7
)
 
 (67.6
)
 
 (0.7
)
 
 (4.1
)


 Amortization of prior service benefit
 
 
 11.1
 
 
 11.0
 
 
 34.7
 
 
 11.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total recognized in pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss
 
 $
201.4
 
 $
(84.1
)
 $
64.6
 
 $
(235.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss  
 
 $
294.1
 
 $
25.4
 
 $
6.6
 
 $
(247.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Net actuarial (gain) loss and net prior service cost benefit have been recognized in AOCI. 
        The
estimated net actuarial (gain) loss and prior service cost (benefit) that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost for the pension benefits during the 2012 fiscal
year are $90.8 million and $(9.4) million, respectively. The estimated net actuarial (gain) loss and prior service cost (benefit) for the postretirement benefits that will be amortized
from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost during the 2012 fiscal year are $0.9 million and $(28.6) million, respectively. 
138



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued) 
 Assumptions  
 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as disclosed under the Obligations and Funded Status section  






















 
 
Pension benefits 
 
Other postretirement benefits 
 


 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Discount rate
 
 
 5.15
%
 
 5.65
%
 
 5.15
%
 
 5.65
%


 Rate of compensation increase
 
 
 5.00
%
 
 5.00
%
 
 5.00
%
 
 5.00
%




 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost  




























 
 
Pension benefits 
 
Other postretirement benefits 
 


 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Discount rate
 
 
 5.65
%
 
 6.00
%
 
 6.00
%
 
 5.65
%
 
 6.00
%
 
 6.00
%


 Expected long-term return on plan assets
 
 
 8.00
%
 
 8.00
%
 
 8.00
%
 
 7.30
%
 
 7.30
%
 
 7.30
%


 Rate of compensation increase
 
 
 5.00
%
 
 5.00
%
 
 5.00
%
 
 5.00
%
 
 5.00
%
 
 5.00
%




        For the pension benefits, the discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments inherent in the projected benefit obligation and
discounting those cash flows using a spot yield curve for high quality corporate bonds. The plans' expected benefit payments are discounted to determine a present value using the yield curve and the
discount rate is the level rate that produces the same present value. The expected return on plan assets is the long-term rate we expect to be earned based on the plans' investment strategy.
Historical and expected future returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk free rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The overall rate for each asset class was
developed by combining a long-term inflation component, the risk free real rate of return and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed based on those overall rates and the
target asset allocation of the plans. 
        For
other postretirement benefits, the 7.3% expected long-term return on plan assets for 2011 is based on the weighted average expected long-term asset returns for the medical, life and
long-term care plans. The expected long-term rates for the medical, life and long-term care plans are 7.25%, 7.75% and 5.85%, respectively. 
 Assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates  
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year under age 65
 
 
 9.5
%
 
 9.5
%


 Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year age 65 and over
 
 
 9.0
%
 
 9.0
%


 Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate)
 
 
 5.0
%
 
 5.0
%


 Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate
 
 
 2023
 
 
 2022
 




        Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in
assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: 
















 
 
1-percentage-
point increase 
 
1-percentage-
point decrease 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Effect on total of service cost and interest cost components
 
 $
0.6
 
 $
(0.6
)


 Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
 
 
 (9.4
)
 
 8.2
 




139



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued) 
 Pension Plan and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  
        Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date (an exit price). The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels. 


•Level 1 — Fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical
assets. Our Level 1 assets include cash, fixed income investment funds and exchange traded equity securities. 
•Level 2 — Fair values are based on inputs other than quoted prices within Level 1 that
are observable for the asset, either directly or indirectly. Our Level 2 assets primarily include fixed income and equity investment funds and real estate investments.  
•Level 3 — Fair values are based on significant unobservable inputs for the asset. Our
Level 3 assets include a Principal Life general account investment. 

        Our
pension plan assets consist of investments in separate accounts. Net asset value ("NAV") of the separate accounts is calculated in a manner consistent with U.S. GAAP for
investment companies and is determinative of their fair value. Several of the separate accounts invest in publicly quoted mutual funds or actively managed stocks. The fair value of the underlying
mutual funds or stock is used to determine the NAV of the separate account, which is not publicly quoted. Some of the separate accounts also invest in fixed income securities. The fair value of the
underlying securities is based on quoted prices of similar assets and used to determine the NAV of the separate account. One separate account invests directly in commercial real estate properties. In
2010, this was categorized as Level 3, as the fund had restrictions on redemption of NAV at the measurement date. In 2011, the withdrawal limitations associated with this separate account were
removed and the investments were being redeemed at NAV at the measurement date. Therefore, the fair value of the separate account is based on NAV and is considered a Level 2 asset in 2011. 
        Our
other postretirement benefit plan assets consist of cash, investments in fixed income security portfolios and investments in equity security portfolios. Because of the nature of
cash, its carrying amount approximates fair value. The fair value of fixed income investment funds, U.S. equity portfolios and international equity portfolios is based on quoted prices in active
markets for identical assets. The fair value of the Principal Life general account investment is the amount the plan would receive if withdrawing funds from this participating contract. The amount
that would be received is calculated using a cash-out factor based on an associated pool of general account fixed income securities. The cash-out factor is a ratio of the asset investment value of
these securities to asset book value. As the investment values change, the cash-out factor is adjusted, impacting the amount the plan receives at measurement date. To determine investment value for
each category of assets, we project cash flows. This is done using contractual provisions for the assets, with adjustment for expected prepayments and call provisions. Projected cash flows are
discounted to present value for each asset category. Interest rates for discounting are based on current rates on similar new assets in the general account based on asset strategy. 
140




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued)  
 Pension Plan Assets  
        The fair value of the qualified pension plan's assets by asset category as of the most recent measurement date is as follows: 






















 
 
As of December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Assets/
(liabilities)
measured at
fair value 
 
Fair value hierarchy level 
 


 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Asset category
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. large cap equity portfolios (1)
 
 $
593.6
 
 $
—
 
 $
593.6
 
 $
—
 


 U.S. small/mid cap equity portfolios (2)
 
 
 139.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 139.0
 
 
 —
 


 International equity portfolios (3)
 
 
 216.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 216.5
 
 
 —
 


 Fixed income security portfolios (4)
 
 
 347.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 347.8
 
 
 —
 


 Real estate investment portfolios:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Real estate investment trusts (5)
 
 
 37.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 37.4
 
 
 —
 


 Direct real estate investments (6)
 
 
 94.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 94.7
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total  
 
 $
1,429.0
 
 $
—
 
 $
1,429.0
 
 $
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 






















 
 
As of December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
 
 
Fair value hierarchy level 
 


 
 
Assets/(liabilities) measured at fair value 
 


 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Asset category
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. large cap equity portfolios (1)
 
 $
580.9
 
 $
—
 
 $
580.9
 
 $
—
 


 U.S. small/mid cap equity portfolios (2)
 
 
 143.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 143.5
 
 
 —
 


 International equity portfolios (3)
 
 
 241.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 241.7
 
 
 —
 


 Fixed income security portfolios (4)
 
 
 331.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 331.5
 
 
 —
 


 Real estate investment portfolios:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Real estate investment trusts (5)
 
 
 35.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 35.4
 
 
 —
 


 Direct real estate investments (6)
 
 
 84.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 84.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total  
 
$
1,417.7
 
 $
—
 
 $
1,333.0
 
 $
84.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)The
portfolios invest primarily in publicly traded equity securities of large U.S. companies.
(2)The
portfolios invest primarily in publicly traded equity securities of mid-sized and small U.S. companies.
(3)The
portfolios invest primarily in publicly traded equity securities of non-U.S. companies.
(4)The
portfolios invest in various fixed income securities, primarily of U.S. origin. These include, but are not limited to, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed
securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Treasury securities, agency securities, asset-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations.
(5)The
portfolio invests primarily in publicly traded securities of U.S. equity real estate investment trusts.
(6)The
portfolio invests primarily in U.S. commercial real estate properties. 

141



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued) 
        The reconciliation for all assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) is as follows: 































 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
 
 
Actual return gains
(losses) on plan assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Beginning
asset balance
as of
December 31,
2010 
 
Relating to
assets still
held at the
reporting
date 
 
Relating to
assets sold
during the
period 
 
Purchases,
sales and
settlements 
 
Transfers
into
Level 3 
 
Transfers
out of
Level 3 
 
Ending asset
balance as of
December 31,
2011 
 


 
 
 
 
(in millions)
 


 Asset category
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct real estate investments
 
 $
84.7
 
 $
1.6
 
 $
—
 
 $
1.0
 
 $
—
 
 $
(87.3
)
 $
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total  
 
 $
84.7
 
 $
1.6
 
 $
—
 
 $
1.0
 
 $
—
 
 $
(87.3
)
 $
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 




























 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
 
 
Actual return gains
(losses) on plan assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Beginning
asset balance
as of
December 31,
2009 
 
Relating to
assets still
held at the
reporting
date 
 
Relating to
assets sold
during the
period 
 
Purchases,
sales and
settlements 
 
Transfers
in (out)
of Level 3 
 
Ending asset
balance as of
December 31,
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Asset category
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct real estate investments
 
 $
54.0
 
 $
10.7
 
 $
—
 
 $
20.0
 
 $
—
 
 $
84.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total  
 
 $
54.0
 
 $
10.7
 
 $
—
 
 $
20.0
 
 $
—
 
 $
84.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        We have established an investment policy that provides the investment objectives and guidelines for the pension plan. Our investment strategy is
to achieve the following:


•Obtain a reasonable long-term return consistent with the level of risk assumed and at a cost of operation within prudent
levels. Performance benchmarks are monitored. 
•Ensure sufficient liquidity to meet the emerging benefit liabilities for the plan.  
•Provide for diversification of assets in an effort to avoid the risk of large losses and maximize the investment return to
the pension plan consistent with market and economic risk. 

        In
administering the qualified pension plan's asset allocation strategy, we consider the projected liability stream of benefit payments, the relationship between current and projected
assets of the plan and the projected actuarial liabilities streams, the historical performance of capital markets adjusted for the perception of future short- and long-term capital market performance
and the perception of future economic conditions. 
        According
to our investment policy, the target asset allocation for the qualified plan is: 













Asset category 
 
Target allocation 
 


 U.S. equity portfolios
 
 
 35% – 60%
 


 International equity portfolios
 
 
 5% – 20%
 


 Fixed income security portfolios
 
 
 20% – 40%
 


 Real estate investment portfolios
 
 
 3% – 10%
 




142



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued) 
 Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  
        The fair value of the other postretirement benefit plans' assets by asset category as of the most recent measurement date is as
follows: 






















 
 
As of December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Assets/
(liabilities)
measured at
fair value 
 
Fair value hierarchy level 
 


 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Asset category
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 $
1.8
 
 $
1.8
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 


 Fixed income security portfolios:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed income investment funds (1)
 
 
 153.0
 
 
 153.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Principal Life general account investment (2)
 
 
 42.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 42.5
 


 U.S. equity portfolios (3)
 
 
 225.3
 
 
 184.1
 
 
 41.2
 
 
 —
 


 International equity portfolios (4)
 
 
 44.0
 
 
 33.6
 
 
 10.4
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total  
 
 $
466.6
 
 $
372.5
 
 $
51.6
 
 $
42.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 






















 
 
As of December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Assets/
(liabilities)
measured at
fair value 
 
Fair value hierarchy level 
 


 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Asset category
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 $
1.3
 
 $
1.3
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 


 Fixed income security portfolios:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed income investment funds (1)
 
 
 143.5
 
 
 143.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Principal Life general account investment (2)
 
 
 44.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 44.5
 


 U.S. equity portfolios (3)
 
 
 232.2
 
 
 190.0
 
 
 42.2
 
 
 —
 


 International equity portfolios (4)
 
 
 50.2
 
 
 38.3
 
 
 11.9
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total  
 
 $
471.7
 
 $
373.1
 
 $
54.1
 
 $
44.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)The
portfolios invest in various fixed income securities, primarily of U.S. origin. These include, but are not limited to, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed
securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Treasury securities, agency securities, asset-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations.
(2)The
general account is invested in various fixed income securities.
(3)The
portfolios invest primarily in publicly traded equity securities of large U.S. companies.
(4)The
portfolios invest primarily in publicly traded equity securities of non-U.S. companies. 

        As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, $51.6 million and $54.1 million of assets in the U.S. equity and
international equity portfolios were included in a trust owned life insurance contract. 
143



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued) 
        The
reconciliation for all assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) is as follows: 































 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
 
 
Actual return gains
(losses) on plan assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Beginning asset balance as of December 31, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Relating to assets still held at the reporting date 
 
Relating to assets sold during the period 
 
Purchases, sales and settlements 
 
Transfers into Level 3 
 
Transfers out of Level 3 
 
Ending asset balance as of December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
 
 
(in millions)
 


 Asset category
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Principal Life general account investment
 
 $
44.5
 
 $
3.0
 
 $
—
 
 $
(5.0
)
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
42.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total  
 
 $
44.5
 
 $
3.0
 
 $
—
 
 $
(5.0
)
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
42.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 




























 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
 
 
Actual return gains
(losses) on plan assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Beginning asset balance as of December 31, 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Relating to assets still held at the reporting date 
 
Relating to assets sold during the period 
 
Purchases, sales and settlements 
 
Transfers in (out) of Level 3 
 
Ending asset balance as of December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Asset category
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Principal Life general account investment
 
 $
45.5
 
 $
4.3
 
 $
—
 
 $
(5.3
)
 $
—
 
 $
44.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total  
 
$
45.5
 
 $
4.3
 
 $
—
 
 $
(5.3
)
 $
—
 
 $
44.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        According to our investment policy, the target asset allocation for the other postretirement benefit plans is: 













Asset category 
 
Target allocation 
 


 U.S. equity portfolios
 
 
 45% – 65%
 


 International equity portfolios
 
 
 5% – 15%
 


 Fixed income security portfolios
 
 
 30% – 50%
 




        The investment strategies and policies for the other postretirement benefit plans are similar to those employed by the qualified pension plan. 
 Contributions  
        Our funding policy for the qualified pension plan is to fund the plan annually in an amount at least equal to the minimum annual
contribution required under ERISA and, generally, not greater than the maximum amount that can be deducted for federal income tax purposes. We do not anticipate contributions will be needed to satisfy
the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our qualified plan. At this time, it is too early to estimate the amount that may be contributed, but it is possible that we may fund the plans in 2012 in
the range of $75-$125 million. This includes funding for both our qualified and nonqualified pension plans. While we designate assets to cover the computed liability of the
nonqualified plan, the assets are not included as part of the asset balances presented in this footnote as they do not qualify as plan assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We may contribute to
our other postretirement benefit plans in 2012 pending future analysis. 
144




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued)  
 Estimated Future Benefit Payments  
        The estimated future benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, and the expected amount of subsidy receipts under
Medicare Part D are: 



















 
 
Pension benefits 
 
Other postretirement benefits
(gross benefit payments,
including prescription drug
benefits) 
 
Amount of Medicare Part D
subsidy receipts 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Year ending December 31:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 2012
 
 $
83.2
 
 $
20.1
 
 $
0.9
 


 2013
 
 
 92.0
 
 
 21.1
 
 
 1.0
 


 2014
 
 
 96.0
 
 
 22.2
 
 
 1.1
 


 2015
 
 
 101.4
 
 
 23.0
 
 
 1.1
 


 2016
 
 
 107.4
 
 
 23.9
 
 
 1.2
 


 2017-2021
 
 
 632.5
 
 
 127.9
 
 
 6.6
 




        The above table reflects the total estimated future benefits to be paid from the plan, including both our share of the benefit cost and the
participants' share of the cost, which is funded by their contributions to the plan. 
        The
assumptions used in calculating the estimated future benefit payments are the same as those used to measure the benefit obligation for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
        The
information that follows shows supplemental information for our defined benefit pension plans. Certain key summary data is shown separately for qualified and nonqualified plans. 




























 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
Qualified
plan 
 
Nonqualified
plans 
 
Total 
 
Qualified
plan 
 
Nonqualified
plans 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Amount recognized in statement of financial position
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other assets
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 (405.9
)
 
 (323.5
)
 
 (729.4
)
 
 (210.8
)
 
 (305.3
)
 
 (516.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
(405.9
)
 $
(323.5
)
 $
(729.4
)
 $
(210.8
)
 $
(305.3
)
 $
(516.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Amount recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total net actuarial loss
 
 $
586.3
 
 $
73.7
 
 $
660.0
 
 $
404.1
 
 $
65.6
 
 $
469.7
 


 Prior service cost benefit
 
 
 (19.2
)
 
 (11.3
)
 
 (30.5
)
 
 (26.6
)
 
 (15.0
)
 
 (41.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 $
567.1
 
 $
62.4
 
 $
629.5
 
 $
377.5
 
 $
50.6
 
 $
428.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Components of net periodic benefit cost
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Service cost
 
 $
39.3
 
 $
4.7
 
 $
44.0
 
 $
39.3
 
 $
6.3
 
 $
45.6
 


 Interest cost
 
 
 91.7
 
 
 16.8
 
 
 108.5
 
 
 88.2
 
 
 17.5
 
 
 105.7
 


 Expected return on plan assets
 
 
 (114.4
)
 
 —
 
 
 (114.4
)
 
 (98.4
)
 
 —
 
 
 (98.4
)


 Amortization of prior service cost benefit
 
 
 (6.5
)
 
 (3.2
)
 
 (9.7
)
 
 (6.6
)
 
 (3.5
)
 
 (10.1
)


 Recognized net actuarial loss
 
 
 61.1
 
 
 4.6
 
 
 65.7
 
 
 62.5
 
 
 5.1
 
 
 67.6
 


 Amount recognized due to special events
 
 
 (0.9
)
 
 (0.5
)
 
 (1.4
)
 
 (0.6
)
 
 (0.3
)
 
 (0.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net periodic benefit cost
 
 $
70.3
 
 $
22.4
 
 $
92.7
 
 $
84.4
 
 $
25.1
 
 $
109.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other changes recognized in accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net actuarial (gain) loss
 
 $
243.3
 
 $
12.7
 
 $
256.0
 
 $
(28.4
)
 $
0.9
 
 $
(27.5
)


 Prior service benefit
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Amortization of net loss
 
 
 (61.1
)
 
 (4.6
)
 
 (65.7
)
 
 (62.5
)
 
 (5.1
)
 
 (67.6
)


 Amortization of prior service cost benefit
 
 
 7.3
 
 
 3.8
 
 
 11.1
 
 
 7.3
 
 
 3.7
 
 
 11.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total recognized in pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss
 
 $
189.5
 
 $
11.9
 
 $
201.4
 
 $
(83.6
)
 $
(0.5
)
 $
(84.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive loss  
 
 $
259.8
 
 $
34.3
 
 $
294.1
 
 $
0.8
 
 $
24.6
 
 $
25.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        In addition, we have defined contribution plans that are generally available to all U.S. employees and agents. Eligible participants could not
contribute more than $16,500 of their compensation to the plans in 2011. Effective January 1, 2006, we made several changes to the retirement programs. In general, the pension and supplemental
executive retirement plan benefit formulas were reduced, and the 401(k) matching contribution was increased. Employees who were ages 47 or 
145



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 11. Employee and Agent Benefits — (continued) 
older
with at least ten years of service on December 31, 2005, could elect to retain the prior benefit provisions and forgo receipt of the additional matching contributions. The employees who
elected to retain the prior benefit provisions are referred to as "Grandfathered Choice Participants." We match the Grandfathered Choice Participant's contribution at a 50% contribution rate up to a
maximum contribution of 3% of the participant's compensation. For all other participants, we match the participant's contributions at a 75% contribution rate up to a maximum of 6% of the participant's
compensation. The defined contribution plans allow employees to choose among various investment options, including our common stock. We contributed $36.3 million, $35.7 million and
$33.9 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, to our qualified defined contribution plans. 
        We
also have nonqualified deferred compensation plans available to select employees and agents that allow them to defer compensation amounts in excess of limits imposed by federal tax
law with respect to the qualified plans. In 2011, we matched the Grandfathered Choice Participant's deferral at a 50% match deferral rate up to a maximum
matching deferral of 3% of the participant's compensation. For all other participants, we matched the participant's deferral at a 75% match deferral rate up to a maximum matching deferral of 6% of the
participant's compensation. We contributed $3.5 million, $2.8 million and $4.6 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, to our nonqualified deferred compensation plans. 
 12. Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications  
 Litigation and Regulatory Contingencies  
        We are regularly involved in litigation, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff, but primarily as a defendant. Litigation naming us as
a defendant ordinarily arises out of our business operations as a provider of asset management and accumulation products and services, life, health and disability insurance. Some of the lawsuits may
be class actions, or purport to be, and some may include claims for unspecified or substantial punitive and treble damages. 
        We
may discuss such litigation in one of three ways. We accrue a charge to income and disclose legal matters for which the chance of loss is probable and for which the amount of loss can
be reasonably estimated. We may disclose contingencies for which the chance of loss is reasonably possible, and provide an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss or a statement that such an
estimate cannot be made. Finally, we may voluntarily disclose loss contingencies for which the chance of loss is remote in order to provide information concerning matters that potentially expose us to
possible losses. 
        In
addition, regulatory bodies such as state insurance departments, the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the Department of Labor and other regulatory agencies regularly
make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, ERISA and laws governing the activities of
broker-dealers. We receive requests from regulators and other governmental authorities relating to industry issues and may receive additional requests, including subpoenas and interrogatories, in the
future. 
        On
November 8, 2006, a trustee of Fairmount Park Inc. Retirement Savings Plan filed a putative class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District
of Illinois against Principal Life. Principal Life's motion to transfer venue was granted and the case is now pending in the Southern District of Iowa. The complaint alleged, among other things, that
Principal Life breached its alleged fiduciary duties while performing services to 401(k) plans by failing to disclose, or adequately disclose, to employers or plan participants the fact that Principal
Life receives
"revenue sharing fees from mutual funds that are included in its pre-packaged 401(k) plans" and allegedly failed to use the revenue to defray the expenses of the services provided to the plans.
Plaintiff further alleged that these acts constitute prohibited transactions under ERISA. Plaintiff sought to certify a class of all retirement plans to which Principal Life was a service provider and
for which Principal Life received and retained "revenue sharing" fees from mutual funds. On August 27, 2008, the plaintiff's motion for class certification was denied. On June 13, 2011,
the court entered a consent judgment resolving the claims of the plaintiff. On July 12, 2011, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal related to the issue of the denial of class certification.
Principal Life continues to aggressively defend the lawsuit. 
        On
October 28, 2009, Judith Curran filed a derivative action lawsuit on behalf of Principal Funds, Inc. Strategic Asset Management Portfolios in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Iowa against Principal Management Corporation, Principal Global Investors, LLC, and Principal Funds Distributor, Inc. (the "Curran Defendants"). The lawsuit alleges the
Curran Defendants breached their fiduciary duty under Section 36(b) of the Investment Company Act by charging advisory fees and distribution fees that were excessive. The Curran Defendants
filed a motion to dismiss the case on January 29, 2010. That motion was granted in part and overruled in part. Principal Global Investors, LLC was dismissed from the suit. The remaining Curran
Defendants are aggressively defending the lawsuit. 
        On
December 2, 2009 and December 4, 2009, two plaintiffs, Cruise and Mullaney, each filed putative class action lawsuits in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York against us, Principal Life, Principal 
146



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 12. Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications — (continued) 
Global
Investors, LLC, and Principal Real Estate Investors, LLC (the "Cruise/Mullaney Defendants"). The lawsuits alleged the Cruise/Mullaney Defendants failed to manage the Principal U.S. Property
Separate Account ("PUSPSA") in the best interests of investors, improperly imposed a "withdrawal freeze" on September 26, 2008, and instituted a "withdrawal queue" to honor withdrawal requests
as sufficient liquidity became available. Plaintiffs allege these actions constitute a breach of fiduciary duties under ERISA. Plaintiffs seek to certify a class including all qualified ERISA plans
and the participants of those plans that invested in PUSPSA between September 26, 2008, and the present that have suffered losses caused by the queue. The two lawsuits, as well as two
subsequently filed complaints asserting similar claims, have been consolidated and are now known as In re Principal U.S. Property Account Litigation. On April 22, 2010, an order was entered
granting the motion made by the Cruise/Mullaney Defendants for change of venue to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Iowa. Plaintiffs filed an Amended Consolidated Complaint
adding five new plaintiffs on November 22, 2010, and the Cruise/Mullaney Defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint. The court denied the Cruise/Mullaney Defendants' motion to dismiss on
May 17, 2011. The Cruise/Mullaney Defendants are aggressively defending the lawsuit. 
        While
the outcome of any pending or future litigation or regulatory matter cannot be predicted, management does not believe that any such matter will have a material adverse effect on
our business or financial position. As of December 31, 2011, there were no estimated losses accrued related to the legal matters discussed above because we believe the loss from these matters
is not probable and cannot be reasonably estimated. 
        We
believe all of the litigation contingencies discussed above involve a chance of loss that is either remote or reasonably possible. All of these matters involve unspecified claim
amounts, in which the respective plaintiffs seek an indeterminate amount of damages. To the extent such matters present a reasonably possible chance of loss, we are not able to estimate the possible
loss or range of loss associated therewith. 
        The
outcome of such matters is always uncertain, and unforeseen results can occur. It is possible that such outcomes could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or
establish accruals in amounts that we could not estimate at December 31, 2011. 
 Guarantees and Indemnifications  
        In the normal course of business, we have provided guarantees to third parties primarily related to a former subsidiary. These
agreements generally expire through 2019. The maximum exposure under these agreements as of December 31, 2011, was approximately $138.0 million. At inception, the fair value of such
guarantees was insignificant. In addition, we believe the likelihood is remote that material payments will be required. Therefore, any liability accrued within our consolidated statements of financial
position is insignificant. Should we be required to perform under these guarantees, we generally could recover a portion of the loss from third parties through recourse provisions included in
agreements with such parties, the sale of assets held as collateral that can be liquidated in the event that performance is required under the guarantees or other recourse generally available to us;
therefore, such guarantees would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. While the likelihood is remote, such outcomes could materially affect net income in a
particular quarter or annual period. 
        We
are also subject to various other indemnification obligations issued in conjunction with divestitures, acquisitions and financing transactions whose terms range in duration and often
are not explicitly defined. Certain portions of these indemnifications may be capped, while other portions are not subject to such limitations; therefore, the overall maximum amount of the obligation
under the indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated. At inception, the fair value of such indemnifications was insignificant. In addition, we believe the likelihood is remote that material
payments will be required. Therefore, any liability accrued within our consolidated statements of financial position is insignificant. While we are unable to estimate with certainty the ultimate legal
and financial liability with respect to these indemnifications, we believe that performance under these indemnifications would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial
position. While the likelihood is remote, performance under these indemnifications could materially affect net income in a particular quarter or annual period. 
 Guaranty Funds  
        Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, for certain
obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. A state's fund assesses its members based on their pro rata market share of written premiums in the state for the classes
of insurance for which the insolvent insurer was engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. We accrue liabilities for guaranty
fund assessments when an assessment is probable, can be reasonably estimated and when the event obligating us to pay has occurred. While we cannot predict the amount and timing of any future
assessments, we have established reserves we believe are adequate for assessments relating to insurance companies that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings. As of December 31, 2011
and 2010, the liability 
147



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 12. Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications — (continued) 
balance
for guaranty fund assessments, which is not discounted, was $38.7 million and $14.5 million, respectively, and was reported within other liabilities in the consolidated
statements of financial position. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $22.6 million and $6.9 million, respectively, related to premium tax offsets were included in premiums due and
other receivables in the consolidated statements of financial position. 
 Operating Leases  
        As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment, office furniture and office equipment under various operating leases.
Rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, was $51.1 million, $53.1 million and $54.4 million. 
        The
following represents payments due by period for operating lease obligations (in millions): 













 
 
 
 


 Year ending December 31:
 
 
 
 


 2012
 
 $
45.8
 


 2013
 
 
 36.6
 


 2014
 
 
 29.7
 


 2015
 
 
 22.3
 


 2016
 
 
 11.8
 


 2017 and thereafter
 
 
 61.8
 


 
 
 
 


 Total operating lease obligations
 
 
 208.0
 


 Less: Future sublease rental income on noncancelable leases
 
 
 4.3
 


 
 
 
 


 Total future minimum lease payments
 
 $
203.7
 


 
 
 
 




 Capital Leases  
        We lease hardware storage equipment under capital leases. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, these leases had a gross asset
balance of $24.4 million and $17.4 million and accumulated depreciation of $13.7 million and $13.4 million, respectively. Depreciation expense for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $4.4 million, $4.2 million and $5.2 million, respectively. 
        The
following represents future minimum lease payments due by period for capital lease obligations (in millions). 













 
 
 
 


 Year ending December 31:
 
 
 
 


 2012
 
 $
4.3
 


 2013
 
 
 3.5
 


 2014
 
 
 3.1
 


 2015
 
 
 0.5
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
 11.4
 


 Less: Amounts representing interest
 
 
 0.5
 


 
 
 
 


 Net present value of minimum lease payments
 
 $
10.9
 


 
 
 
 




 13. Stockholders' Equity  
 Preferred Stock  
        As of December 31, 2011, we had 13.0 million shares of preferred stock authorized, issued and outstanding under the two
series described below. Preferred stockholders have dividend and liquidation priority over common stockholders. 
        Series A.    Dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are non-cumulative and are payable quarterly when, and if, declared
by our Board of
Directors at a rate of 5.563% per annum of the liquidation preference. On or after the dividend payment date in June 2015, the Series A initial distribution rate will become a floating rate,
subject to reset, at our option, subject to certain conditions and parameters. If reset, the rate may be at fixed or floating rates. On or after the dividend payment date in June 2015, we may, at our
option, redeem the shares at a price of $100 per share, or $300.0 million in the aggregate, plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then current dividend period to the date of redemption, if
any. 
        The
Series A Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and is not convertible into any other of our securities. Series A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights, except
with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the shares and in the case of certain dividend non-payments. 
         Series B.    Dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock are non-cumulative and are payable quarterly when, and if,
declared by the Board of
Directors at a rate of 6.518% per annum of the liquidation preference. On or after the dividend payment date in June 2035, the Series B initial distribution rate will become a floating rate,
subject to reset, at our option, subject to certain conditions and parameters. If reset, the rate may be at fixed or floating rates. On or after the dividend 
148



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 13. Stockholders' Equity — (continued) 
payment
date in June 2015, we may, at our option, redeem the shares at a price of $25 per share, or $250.0 million in the aggregate, plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then current
dividend period to the date of redemption, if any. 
        The
Series B Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and is not convertible into any other of our securities. Series B Preferred Stock will have no voting rights, except
with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the shares and in the case of certain dividend non-payments. 
 Dividend Restrictions and Payments  
        The certificates of designation for the Series A and B Preferred Stock restrict the declaration of preferred dividends if we
fail to meet specified capital adequacy, net income or stockholders' equity levels. As of December 31, 2010, we have no preferred dividend restrictions. 
        On
March 30, 2011, June 30, 2011, September 30, 2011 and December 30, 2011, we paid a dividend of $8.2 million, $8.3 million,
$8.2 million and $8.3 million, respectively, equal to $1.39 per share on Series A non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and equal to $0.41 per share on Series B
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. Dividends were paid to stockholders of record as of March 11, 2011, June 9, 2011, September 8, 2011 and December 8, 2011,
respectively. 
        On
March 30, 2010, June 30, 2010, September 30, 2010 and December 30, 2010, we paid a dividend of $8.2 million, $8.3 million,
$8.2 million and $8.3 million, respectively, equal to $1.39 per share on Series A non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and equal to $0.41 per share on Series B
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. Dividends were paid to stockholders of record as of March 11, 2010, June 10, 2010, September 9, 2010 and December 9, 2010,
respectively. 
        On
March 30, 2009, June 30, 2009, September 30, 2009 and December 30, 2009, we paid a dividend of $8.2 million, $8.3 million,
$8.2 million and $8.3 million, respectively, equal to $1.39 per share on Series A non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and equal to $0.41 per share on Series B
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. Dividends were paid to stockholders of record as of March 12, 2009, June 11, 2009, September 10, 2009 and December 14, 2009,
respectively. 
 Common Stock  
        On December 2, 2011, we paid an annual dividend of $213.7 million, equal to $0.70 per share, to stockholders of record as
of November 10, 2011. On December 3, 2010, we paid an annual dividend of $176.2 million, equal to $0.55 per share, to stockholders of record as of November 19, 2010. On
December 4, 2009, we paid an annual dividend of $159.5 million, equal to $0.50 per share, to stockholders of record as of November 13, 2009. 
 Reconciliation of Outstanding Shares  



















 
 
Series A
preferred
stock 
 
Series B
preferred
stock 
 
Common
stock 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Outstanding shares at January 1, 2009
 
 
3.0
 
 
10.0
 
 
259.3
 


 Shares issued
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
60.0
 


 Treasury stock acquired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(0.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding shares at December 31, 2009
 
 
3.0
 
 
10.0
 
 
319.0
 


 Shares issued
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1.5
 


 Treasury stock acquired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(0.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding shares at December 31, 2010
 
 
3.0
 
 
10.0
 
 
320.4
 


 Shares issued
 
 
 —
 
 
—
 
 
1.8
 


 Treasury stock acquired
 
 
 —
 
 
—
 
 
(21.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding shares at December 31, 2011
 
 
 3.0
 
 
10.0
 
 
301.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        On May 11, 2009, we issued 58.2 million shares of common stock at a price of $19.75 per share. Net proceeds from the issuance were
$1,109.1 million. The proceeds from this offering were used for general corporate purposes. 
        In
May 2011, our Board of Directors reinstated the November 2007 share repurchase program. In July 2011, we completed this program. During August 2011, our Board of Directors authorized
a share repurchase program of up to $200.0 million of our outstanding common stock. We completed this program in September 2011. During November 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a share
repurchase program of up to $100.0 million of our outstanding common stock. We completed this program in December 2011. 
        Our
Board of Directors has authorized various repurchase programs under which we are allowed to purchase shares of our outstanding common stock. Shares repurchased under these programs
are accounted for as treasury stock, carried at cost and reflected as a reduction to stockholders' equity. 
149




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 13. Stockholders' Equity — (continued)  
 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  
        Comprehensive income includes all changes in stockholders' equity during a period except those resulting from investments by
stockholders and distributions to stockholders. 
        The
components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows: 

























 
 
Net unrealized
losses on
available-for-sale securities 
 
Net unrealized
gains on
derivative instruments 
 
Foreign
currency
translation adjustment 
 
Unrecognized
postretirement
benefit
obligations 
 
Accumulated
other
comprehensive
loss 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Balances at January 1, 2009
 
$
(4,208.0
)
$
37.2
 
$
(173.5
)
$
(567.3
)
$
(4,911.6
)


 Net change in unrealized losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
6,590.8
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,590.8
 


 Net change in noncredit component of impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
(260.9
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(260.9
)


 Net change in unrealized losses on equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
48.1
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
48.1
 


 Net change in unrealized losses on equity method subsidiaries and noncontrolling interest adjustments
 
 
111.7
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
111.7
 


 Adjustments for assumed changes in amortization pattern
 
 
(963.3
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(963.3
)


 Adjustment for assumed changes in policyholder liabilities
 
 
(79.0
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(79.0
)


 Net change in unrealized gains on derivative instruments
 
 
—
 
 
(33.2
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.2
)


 Change in net foreign currency translation adjustment
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
191.8
 
 
—
 
 
191.8
 


 Change in unrecognized postretirement benefit obligations
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
263.3
 
 
263.3
 


 Cumulative effect of reclassifying noncredit component of previously recognized impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale, net
 
 
(9.9
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(9.9
)


 Net change in provision for deferred income tax benefit (expense)
 
 
(1,884.3
)
 
10.3
 
 
(23.6
)
 
(92.2
)
 
(1,989.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2009
 
$
(654.8
)
$
14.3
 
$
(5.3
)
$
(396.2
)
$
(1,042.0
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




150



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 13. Stockholders' Equity — (continued) 
 

























 
 
Net unrealized
gains (losses) on
available-for-sale
securities 
 
Net unrealized
gains on
derivative
instruments 
 
Foreign
currency
translation
adjustment 
 
Unrecognized
postretirement
benefit
obligations 
 
Accumulated
other
comprehensive
income (loss) 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Balances at January 1, 2010
 
$
(654.8
)
$
14.3
 
$
(5.3
)
$
(396.2
)
$
(1,042.0
)


 Net change in unrealized losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
2,315.1
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,315.1
 


 Net change in noncredit component of impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
(56.1
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(56.1
)


 Net change in unrealized losses on equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
7.0
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
7.0
 


 Net change in unrealized losses on equity method subsidiaries and noncontrolling interest adjustments
 
 
(68.9
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(68.9
)


 Adjustments for assumed changes in amortization pattern
 
 
(488.0
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(488.0
)


 Adjustment for assumed changes in policyholder liabilities
 
 
(136.7
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(136.7
)


 Net change in unrealized gains on derivative instruments
 
 
—
 
 
36.7
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
36.7
 


 Change in net foreign currency translation adjustment
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
20.8
 
 
—
 
 
20.8
 


 Change in unrecognized postretirement benefit obligations
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
320.0
 
 
320.0
 


 Cumulative effect of implementation of accounting change related to variable interest entities, net
 
 
10.7
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
10.7
 


 Cumulative effect of electing fair value option for fixed maturities upon implementation of accounting change related to embedded credit derivatives,
net
 
 
25.4
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
25.4
 


 Net change in provision for deferred income tax benefit (expense)
 
 
(558.3
)
 
(13.7
)
 
12.4
 
 
(112.0
)
 
(671.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2010
 
$
395.4
 
$
37.3
 
$
27.9
 
$
(188.2
)
$
272.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




151



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 13. Stockholders' Equity — (continued) 


























 
 
Net unrealized
gains on
available-for-sale
securities 
 
Net unrealized
gains on
derivative
instruments 
 
Foreign
currency
translation
adjustment 
 
Unrecognized
postretirement
benefit
obligations 
 
Accumulated
other
comprehensive
income 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Balances at January 1, 2011  
 
 $
395.4
 
 $
37.3
 
 $
27.9
 
 $
(188.2
)
 $
272.4
 


 Net change in unrealized gains on fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 650.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 650.0
 


 Net change in noncredit component of impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 49.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 49.9
 


 Net change in unrealized gains on equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 12.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 12.3
 


 Net change in unrealized gains on equity method subsidiaries and noncontrolling interest adjustments
 
 
 9.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 9.1
 


 Adjustments for assumed changes in amortization pattern
 
 
 (167.6
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (167.6
)


 Adjustment for assumed changes in policyholder liabilities
 
 
 (230.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (230.3
)


 Net change in unrealized gains on derivative instruments
 
 
 —
 
 
 60.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 60.2
 


 Change in net foreign currency translation adjustment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (142.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 (142.7
)


 Change in unrecognized postretirement benefit obligations
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (266.0
)
 
 (266.0
)


 Net change in provision for deferred income tax benefit (expense)
 
 
 (117.3
)
 
 (21.2
)
 
 —
 
 
 93.1
 
 
 (45.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances at December 31, 2011  
 
 $
601.5
 
 $
76.3
 
 $
(114.8
)
 $
(361.1
)
 $
201.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The following table sets forth the adjustments necessary to avoid duplication of items that are included as part of net income for a year that had
been part of other comprehensive income in prior years: 



















 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities and derivative instruments, as reported
 
 $
245.1
 
 $
1,073.2
 
 $
3,530.3
 


 Adjustment for realized losses on available-for-sale securities and derivative instruments included in net income
 
 
 (117.8
)
 
 (137.7
)
 
 (215.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities and derivative instruments arising
during the year
 
 $
127.3
 
 $
935.5
 
 $
3,314.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The above table includes unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities and derivatives in cash flow hedge relationships net of
adjustments related to DPAC, sales inducements, unearned revenue reserves, changes in policyholder benefits and claims and applicable income taxes. 
 Dividend Limitations  
        Under Iowa law, Principal Life may pay stockholder dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive
the prior approval of the Commissioner to pay a stockholder dividend if such a stockholder dividend would exceed certain statutory limitations. In general, the current statutory limitation is the
greater of 10% of Principal Life's policyholder surplus as of the preceding year-end or the net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Based on this limitation and 2011 statutory
results, Principal Life could pay approximately $507.7 million in stockholder dividends in 2012 without exceeding the statutory limitation. 
152




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 14. Fair Value Measurements  

        We use fair value measurements to record fair value of certain assets and liabilities and to estimate fair value of financial instruments not recorded at fair value but required to be
disclosed at fair value. Certain financial instruments, particularly policyholder liabilities other than investment-type insurance contracts, are excluded from these fair value disclosure
requirements. 
 Fair Value of Financial Instruments  
        The carrying value and estimated fair value of financial instruments were as follows: 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Carrying amount 
 
Fair value 
 
Carrying amount 
 
Fair value 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets (liabilities)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
49,006.7
 
 $
49,006.7
 
 $
48,636.3
 
 $
48,636.3
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 971.7
 
 
 971.7
 
 
 1,120.3
 
 
 1,120.3
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 77.1
 
 
 77.1
 
 
 169.9
 
 
 169.9
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
 404.8
 
 
 404.8
 
 
 316.9
 
 
 316.9
 


 Mortgage loans
 
 
 10,727.2
 
 
 11,223.4
 
 
 11,125.1
 
 
 11,197.8
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 885.1
 
 
 1,114.2
 
 
 903.9
 
 
 1,012.1
 


 Other investments
 
 
 381.1
 
 
 381.1
 
 
 311.3
 
 
 311.3
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 2,833.9
 
 
 2,833.9
 
 
 1,877.4
 
 
 1,877.4
 


 Derivative assets
 
 
 1,171.1
 
 
 1,171.1
 
 
 1,083.2
 
 
 1,083.2
 


 Separate account assets
 
 
 71,364.4
 
 
 71,364.4
 
 
 69,555.3
 
 
 69,555.3
 


 Investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
 (32,604.3
)
 
 (32,429.8
)
 
 (32,720.1
)
 
 (32,828.6
)


 Short-term debt
 
 
 (105.2
)
 
 (105.2
)
 
 (107.9
)
 
 (107.9
)


 Long-term debt
 
 
 (1,564.8
)
 
 (1,750.7
)
 
 (1,583.7
)
 
 (1,756.3
)


 Separate account liabilities
 
 
 (64,016.2
)
 
 (62,906.9
)
 
 (62,681.4
)
 
 (61,594.1
)


 Derivative liabilities
 
 
 (1,527.3
)
 
 (1,527.3
)
 
 (1,274.5
)
 
 (1,274.5
)


 Bank deposits
 
 
 (2,142.8
)
 
 (2,150.2
)
 
 (2,161.2
)
 
 (2,172.9
)


 Cash collateral payable
 
 
 (234.0
)
 
 (234.0
)
 
 (236.0
)
 
 (236.0
)


 Other liabilities
 
 
 (225.3
)
 
 (225.3
)
 
 (250.3
)
 
 (250.3
)




 Valuation Hierarchy  
        Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels. 


•Level 1 — Fair values are based on unadjusted
quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Our Level 1 assets and liabilities primarily include exchange traded equity securities, mutual funds and U.S. Treasury
bonds. 
•Level 2 — Fair values are based on inputs other
than quoted prices within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Our Level 2 assets and liabilities primarily include fixed maturities
(including public and private bonds), equity securities, over-the-counter derivatives and other investments for which public quotations are not available but that are priced by third-party pricing
services or internal models using substantially all observable inputs. 
•Level 3 — Fair values are based on significant
unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. Our Level 3 assets and liabilities include certain fixed maturities, private equity securities, real estate and commercial mortgage loan
investments of our separate accounts, commercial mortgage loan investments and obligations of consolidated VIEs for which the fair value option was elected, complex derivatives and embedded
derivatives that are priced using broker quotes or other valuation methods that utilize at least one significant unobservable input. 

 Determination of Fair Value  
        The following discussion describes the valuation methodologies and inputs used for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis or disclosed at fair value. The techniques utilized in estimating the fair values of financial instruments are reliant on the assumptions used. Care should be exercised in deriving
conclusions about our business, its value or financial position based on the fair value information of financial instruments presented below. 
        Fair
value estimates are made based on available market information and judgments about the financial instrument at a specific point in time. Such estimates do not consider the tax
impact of the realization of unrealized gains or losses. In addition, the disclosed fair value may not be realized in the immediate settlement of the financial instrument. We validate prices through
an investment analyst review process, which includes validation through direct interaction with 
153



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued) 
external
sources, review of recent trade activity or use of internal models. In circumstances where broker quotes are used to value an instrument, we generally receive one non-binding quote. Broker
quotes are validated through an investment analyst review process, which includes validation through direct interaction with external sources and use of internal models or other relevant information.
We did not make any significant changes to our valuation processes during 2011. 
 Fixed Maturities  
        Fixed maturities include bonds, ABS, redeemable preferred stock and certain nonredeemable preferred stock. When available, the fair
value of fixed maturities is based on quoted prices of identical assets in active markets. These are reflected in Level 1 and primarily include U.S. Treasury bonds and actively traded
redeemable corporate preferred securities. 
        When
quoted prices of identical assets in active markets are not available, our first priority is to obtain prices from third party pricing vendors. We have regular interaction with
these vendors to ensure we understand their pricing methodologies and to confirm they are utilizing observable market information. Their methodologies vary by asset class and include inputs such as
estimated cash flows, benchmark yields, reported trades, broker quotes, credit quality, industry events and economic events. Fixed maturities with validated prices from pricing services, which
includes the majority of our public fixed maturities in all asset classes, are generally reflected in Level 2. Also included in Level 2 are corporate bonds where quoted market prices are
not available, for which a matrix pricing valuation approach is used. In this approach, securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by sector, rating and average life. Each pricing
category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security
are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Although the matrix valuation approach provides a fair valuation of each pricing category, the valuation of an
individual security within each pricing category may actually be impacted by company specific factors. 
        If
we are unable to price a fixed maturity security using prices from third party pricing vendors or other sources specific to the asset class, we may obtain a broker quote or utilize an
internal pricing model specific to the asset utilizing relevant market information, to the extent available, which are reflected in Level 3 and can include fixed maturities across all asset
classes. As of December 31, 2011, less than 1% of our fixed maturities were valued using internal pricing models, which were classified as Level 3 assets accordingly. 
        The
primary inputs, by asset class, for valuations of the majority of our Level 2 investments from third party pricing vendors or our internal pricing valuation approach are
described below. 
         U.S. Government and Agencies/Non-U.S. Governments.    Inputs include recently executed market transactions, interest rate yield
curves, maturity dates,
market price quotations and credit spreads relating to similar instruments. 
         State and Political Subdivisions.    Inputs include Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board reported trades, U.S. Treasury and other
benchmark curves,
material event notices, new issue data and obligor credit ratings. 
         Corporate.    Inputs include recently executed transactions, market price quotations, benchmark yields, issuer spreads and
observations of equity and
credit default swap curves related to the issuer. For private placement corporate securities valued through the matrix valuation approach inputs include the current U.S. Treasury curve and risk
spreads based on sector, rating and average life of the issuance. 
         RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and Other Debt Obligations.    Inputs include cash flows, priority of the tranche in the capital structure,
expected time to maturity
for the specific tranche, reinvestment period remaining and performance of the underlying collateral including prepayments, defaults, deferrals, loss severity of defaulted collateral and, for RMBS,
prepayment speed assumptions. Other inputs include market indices and recently executed market transactions. 
 Equity Securities  
        Equity securities include mutual funds, common stock and nonredeemable preferred stock. Fair values of equity securities are determined
using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets when available, which are reflected in Level 1. When quoted prices are not available, we may utilize internal valuation methodologies
appropriate for the specific asset that use observable inputs such as underlying share prices, which are reflected in Level 2. Fair values might also be determined using broker quotes or
through the use of internal models or analysis that incorporate significant assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and consistent with what other market participants would use when
pricing such securities, which are reflected in Level 3. 
154



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued) 
 Mortgage Loans  
        Mortgage loans are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair values of commercial and residential mortgage loans are
primarily determined by discounting the expected cash flows at current treasury rates plus an applicable risk spread, which reflects credit quality and maturity of the loans. The risk spread is based
on market clearing levels for loans with comparable credit quality, maturities and risk. The fair value of mortgage loans may also be based on the fair value of the underlying real estate collateral
less cost to sell, which is estimated using appraised values. 
 Policy Loans  
        Policy loans are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair values of policy loans are estimated by discounting expected
cash flows using a risk-free rate based on the U.S. Treasury curve. 
 Derivatives  
        The fair values of exchange-traded derivatives are determined through quoted market prices, which are reflected in Level 1.
Exchange-traded derivatives include interest rate and equity futures that are settled daily such that their fair value is not reflected in the consolidated statements of financial position. The fair
values of over-the-counter derivative instruments are determined using either pricing valuation models that utilize market observable inputs or broker quotes. The majority of our over-the-counter
derivatives are valued with models that use market observable inputs, which are reflected in Level 2. Significant inputs include contractual terms, interest rates, currency exchange rates,
credit spread curves, equity prices, and volatilities. These valuation models consider projected discounted cash flows, relevant swap curves, and appropriate implied volatilities. Certain
over-the-counter derivatives utilize unobservable market data, primarily independent broker quotes that are nonbinding quotes based on models that do not reflect the result of market transactions,
which are reflected in Level 3. 
        Our
derivative contracts are generally documented under ISDA Master Agreements, which provide for legally enforceable set-off and close-out netting of exposures to specific
counterparties. Collateral arrangements are bilateral and based on current ratings of each entity. We utilize the LIBOR interest rate curve to value our positions, which includes a credit spread. This
credit spread incorporates an appropriate level of nonperformance risk into our valuations given the current ratings of our counterparties, as well as the collateral agreements in place. Counterparty
credit risk is routinely monitored to ensure our adjustment for non-performance risk is appropriate. 
         Interest Rate Contracts.    We use discounted cash flow valuation techniques to determine the fair value of interest rate swaps
using observable swap
curves as the inputs. These are reflected in Level 2. In addition, we have a limited number of complex inflation-linked interest rate swaps and interest rate collars that are valued using
broker quotes. These are reflected in Level 3. We use option pricing models to determine the fair value of swaptions using observable swap interest rate curves and observable implied
volatilities as inputs. 
         Foreign Exchange Contracts.    We use discounted cash flow valuation techniques that utilize observable swap curves and exchange
rates as the inputs to
determine the fair value of foreign currency swaps. These are reflected in Level 2. In addition, we have a limited number of non-standard currency swaps that are valued using broker quotes.
These are reflected within Level 3. Currency forwards are valued using observable market inputs, including forward currency exchange rates. These are reflected in Level 2. 
        Equity Contracts.    We use an option pricing model using observable implied volatilities, dividend yields, index prices and swap
curves as the inputs
to determine the fair value of equity options. These are reflected in Level 2. In addition, we have a limited number of total return swaps that are valued based on the observable quoted price
of the underlying equity index. These are reflected in Level 2. 
         Credit Contracts.    We use either the ISDA Credit Default Swap Standard discounted cash flow model that utilizes observable
default probabilities and
recovery rates as inputs or broker prices to determine the fair value of credit default swaps. These are reflected in Level 3. 
 Other Investments  
        Other investments reported at fair value primarily include seed money investments, for which the fair value is determined using the net
asset value of the fund. The net asset value of the fund represents the price at which we feel we would be able to initiate a transaction. Seed money investments in mutual funds for which the net
asset value is published are reflected in Level 1. Seed money investments in mutual funds or other investment funds in markets that do not have a published net asset value are reflected in
Level 2. 
        Other
investments reported at fair value also include commercial mortgage loans of consolidated VIEs for which the fair value option was elected, which are reflected in Level 3.
Fair value of these commercial mortgage loans is computed 
155



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued) 
utilizing
a discount rate based on the current market. The market discount rate is then adjusted based on various factors that differentiate it from our pool of loans. 
        The
carrying amounts of other assets classified as other investments in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position, which are not measured at fair value on a
recurring basis, approximate their fair values. 
 Cash and Cash Equivalents  
        Certain cash equivalents are reported at fair value on a recurring basis and include money market instruments and other short-term
investments with maturities of less than three months. Fair values of these cash equivalents may be determined using public quotations, when available, which are reflected in Level 1. When
public quotations are not available, because of the highly liquid nature of these assets, carrying amounts may be used to approximate fair values, which are reflected in Level 2. 
        The
carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents that are not reported at fair value on a recurring basis approximate their fair value. 
 Separate Account Assets  
        Separate account assets include equity securities, debt securities and derivative instruments, for which fair values are determined as
previously described, and are reflected in Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3. Separate account assets also include commercial mortgage loans, for which the fair value is estimated by
discounting the expected total cash flows using market rates that are applicable to the yield, credit quality and maturity of the loans. The market clearing spreads vary based on mortgage type,
weighted average life, rating and liquidity. These are reflected in Level 3. Finally, separate account assets include real estate, for which the fair value is estimated using discounted cash
flow valuation models that utilize public real estate market data inputs such as transaction prices, market rents, vacancy levels, leasing absorption, market cap rates and discount rates. In addition,
each property is appraised annually by an independent appraiser. The real estate within the separate accounts is reflected in Level 3. 
 Cash Collateral Payable  
        Cash collateral payable is not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The carrying amount of the payable associated with our
obligation to return cash collateral received under derivative credit support annex (collateral) agreements approximate its fair value. 
 Investment-Type Insurance Contracts  
        Investment-type insurance contracts are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair values of our reserves and
liabilities for investment-type insurance contracts are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses based on current interest rates, including non-performance risk, being offered for similar
contracts with maturities consistent with those remaining for the investment-type contracts being valued. Investment-type insurance contracts include insurance, annuity and other policy contracts that
do not involve significant mortality or morbidity risk and are only a portion of the policyholder liabilities appearing in the consolidated statements of financial position. Insurance contracts
include insurance, annuity and other policy contracts that do involve significant mortality or morbidity risk. The fair values for our insurance contracts, other than investment-type contracts, are
not required to be disclosed. 
        Certain
annuity contracts and other investment-type insurance contracts include embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated from the host contract and that are measured at fair value
on a recurring basis, which are reflected in Level 3. The key assumptions for calculating the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities are market assumptions (such as equity market
returns, interest rate levels, market volatility and correlations) and policyholder behavior assumptions (such as lapse, mortality, utilization and withdrawal patterns). They are valued using a
combination of historical data and actuarial judgment. Stochastic models are used to value the embedded derivatives that incorporate a spread reflecting our own creditworthiness and risk margins. 
        The
assumption for our own non-performance risk for investment-type insurance contracts and any embedded derivatives bifurcated from certain annuity and investment-type insurance
contracts is based on the current market credit spreads for debt-like instruments that we have issued and are available in the market. 
 Short-Term Debt  
        Short-term debt is not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The carrying amount of short-term debt approximates its fair value
because of the relatively short time between origination of the debt instrument and its maturity. 
156



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued) 
 Long-Term Debt  
        Long-term debt is not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair values for debt issues are estimated using discounted cash flow
analysis based on our incremental borrowing rate for similar borrowing arrangements. 
 Separate Account Liabilities  
        Separate account liabilities are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair values of separate account liabilities,
excluding insurance-related elements, are estimated based on market assumptions around what a potential acquirer would pay for the associated block of business, including both the separate account
assets and liabilities. As the applicable separate account assets are already reflected at fair value, any adjustment to the fair value of the block is an assumed adjustment to the separate account
liabilities. To compute fair value, the separate account liabilities are originally set to equal separate account assets because these are pass-through contracts. The separate account liabilities are
reduced by the amount of future fees expected to be collected that are intended to offset upfront acquisition costs already incurred that a potential acquirer would not have to pay. The estimated
future fees are adjusted by an adverse deviation discount and the amount is then discounted at a risk-free rate as measured by the yield on U.S. Treasury securities at maturities aligned with the
estimated timing of fee collection. 
 Bank Deposits  
        Bank deposits are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of deposits of our Principal Bank subsidiary with no
stated maturity, such as demand deposits, savings, and interest-bearing demand accounts, is equal to the amount payable on demand (i.e., their carrying amounts). The fair value of certificates of
deposit is based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. The discount is estimated using the rates currently offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities. 
 Other Liabilities  
        Certain obligations reported in other liabilities include embedded derivatives to deliver underlying securities of structured
investments to third parties. The fair value of the embedded derivatives is calculated based on the value of the underlying securities that are valued based on prices obtained from third party pricing
vendors as utilized and described in our discussion of how fair value is determined for fixed maturities, which are reflected in Level 2. 
        Additionally,
obligations of consolidated VIEs for which the fair value option was elected are included in other liabilities. These obligations are valued either based on prices obtained
from third party pricing vendors as utilized and described in our discussion of how fair value is determined for fixed maturities, which are reflected in Level 2, or broker quotes, which are
reflected in Level 3. 
157



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued) 
 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis  
        Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below. 






















 
 
As of December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Assets /
(liabilities)
measured at
fair value 
 
Fair value hierarchy level 
 


 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. government and agencies
 
 $
805.1
 
 $
57.5
 
 $
747.6
 
 $
—
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 
 1,096.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,073.8
 
 
 22.9
 


 States and political subdivisions
 
 
 2,882.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 2,882.7
 
 
 —
 


 Corporate
 
 
 33,556.5
 
 
 87.5
 
 
 33,172.0
 
 
 297.0
 


 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 3,343.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,343.0
 
 
 —
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 3,413.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,413.7
 
 
 —
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
 338.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 236.3
 
 
 102.5
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
 3,570.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,542.9
 
 
 27.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 49,006.7
 
 
 145.0
 
 
 48,412.0
 
 
 449.7
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 971.7
 
 
 199.6
 
 
 551.3
 
 
 220.8
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 77.1
 
 
 56.5
 
 
 2.6
 
 
 18.0
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
 404.8
 
 
 291.6
 
 
 113.2
 
 
 —
 


 Derivative assets (1)
 
 
 1,171.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,110.9
 
 
 60.2
 


 Other investments (2)
 
 
 213.3
 
 
 17.6
 
 
 98.2
 
 
 97.5
 


 Cash equivalents (3)
 
 
 1,659.8
 
 
 677.3
 
 
 982.5
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Sub-total excluding separate account assets
 
 
 53,504.5
 
 
 1,387.6
 
 
 51,270.7
 
 
 846.2
 


 Separate account assets
 
 

71,364.4
 
 

49,477.1
 
 

17,689.1
 
 

4,198.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets  
 
 $
124,868.9
 
 $
50,864.7
 
 $
68,959.8
 
 $
5,044.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment-type insurance contracts (4)
 
 $
(195.8
)
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
(195.8
)


 Derivative liabilities (1)
 
 
 (1,527.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 (1,350.2
)
 
 (177.1
)


 Other liabilities (4)
 
 
 (225.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 (201.1
)
 
 (24.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities  
 
 $
(1,948.4
)
 $
—
 
 $
(1,551.3
)
 $
(397.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net assets (liabilities)  
 
 $
122,920.5
 
 $
50,864.7
 
 $
67,408.5
 
 $
4,647.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




158



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued) 






















 
 
As of December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Assets /
(liabilities)
measured at
fair value 
 
Fair value hierarchy level 
 


 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. government and agencies
 
$
769.3
 
$
229.6
 
$
539.7
 
$
—
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 
872.6
 
 
—
 
 
848.1
 
 
24.5
 


 States and political subdivisions
 
 
2,656.4
 
 
—
 
 
2,656.4
 
 
—
 


 Corporate
 
 
33,892.5
 
 
95.4
 
 
33,245.0
 
 
552.1
 


 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
3,196.2
 
 
—
 
 
3,196.2
 
 
—
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
3,842.2
 
 
—
 
 
3,826.0
 
 
16.2
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
293.0
 
 
—
 
 
183.7
 
 
109.3
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
3,114.1
 
 
—
 
 
3,025.3
 
 
88.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
48,636.3
 
 
325.0
 
 
47,520.4
 
 
790.9
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
1,120.3
 
 
159.8
 
 
691.4
 
 
269.1
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
169.9
 
 
124.1
 
 
2.6
 
 
43.2
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
316.9
 
 
212.9
 
 
104.0
 
 
—
 


 Derivative assets (1)
 
 
1,083.2
 
 
—
 
 
1,049.9
 
 
33.3
 


 Other investments (2)
 
 
210.7
 
 
14.1
 
 
68.3
 
 
128.3
 


 Cash equivalents (3)
 
 
1,247.2
 
 
217.3
 
 
1,029.9
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Sub-total excluding separate account assets
 
 
52,784.5
 
 
1,053.2
 
 
50,466.5
 
 
1,264.8
 


 Separate account assets
 
 

69,555.3
 
 

51,012.9
 
 

14,770.9
 
 

3,771.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
122,339.8
 
$
52,066.1
 
$
65,237.4
 
$
5,036.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment-type insurance contracts (4)
 
$
(6.6
)
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
(6.6
)


 Derivative liabilities (1)
 
 
(1,274.5
)
 
—
 
 
(1,093.0
)
 
(181.5
)


 Other liabilities (4)
 
 
(250.3
)
 
—
 
 
(93.5
)
 
(156.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
$
(1,531.4
)
$
—
 
$
(1,186.5
)
$
(344.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net assets (liabilities)
 
$
120,808.4
 
$
52,066.1
 
$
64,050.9
 
$
4,691.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







(1)Within
the consolidated statements of financial position, derivative assets are reported with other investments and derivative liabilities are reported with
other liabilities. Refer to Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments, for further information on fair value by class of derivative instruments. Our derivatives are primarily Level 2,
with the exception of certain credit default swaps and other swaps that are Level 3.
(2)Primarily
includes seed money investments and commercial mortgage loans of consolidated VIEs reported at fair value.
(3)Includes
money market instruments and short-term investments with a maturity date of three months or less when purchased.
(4)Includes
bifurcated embedded derivatives that are reported at fair value within the same line item in the consolidated statements of financial position in
which the host contract is reported. Other liabilities also include obligations of consolidated VIEs reported at fair value. 
159




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued)  
 Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements  
        The reconciliation for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs
(Level 3) are summarized as follows: 


































 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011 
 
 
 


 
 
Changes in
unrealized
gains (losses)
included in
net income
relating to
positions
still held (1) 
 


 
 
Beginning
asset/
(liability)
balance as of
December 31,
2010 
 
Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) 
 
Purchases,
sales,
issuances
and
settlements
(5) 
 
 
 
 
 
Ending
asset/
(liability)
balance
as of
December 31,
2011 
 


 
 
Included
in net
income (1) 
 
Included
in other
comprehensive
income 
 
Transfers
into
Level 3 
 
Transfers
out of
Level 3 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 $
24.5
 
 $
0.2
 
 $
—
 
 $
(1.8
)
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
22.9
 
 $
0.1
 


 Corporate
 
 
 552.1
 
 
 (10.8
)
 
 (20.8
)
 
 (42.7
)
 
 103.2
 
 
 (284.0
)
 
 297.0
 
 
 (6.1
)


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 16.2
 
 
 (3.7
)
 
 5.1
 
 
 (10.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (7.1
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
 109.3
 
 
 (19.6
)
 
 13.8
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 (1.3
)
 
 102.5
 
 
 (9.3
)


 Other debt obligations
 
 
 88.8
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 (1.1
)
 
 (30.5
)
 
 9.0
 
 
 (39.0
)
 
 27.3
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 790.9
 
 
 (33.8
)
 
 (3.0
)
 
 (85.2
)
 
 112.2
 
 
 (331.4
)
 
 449.7
 
 
 (15.3
)


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 269.1
 
 
 (16.6
)
 
 —
 
 
 (27.2
)
 
 20.5
 
 
 (25.0
)
 
 220.8
 
 
 (15.8
)


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 43.2
 
 
 (6.1
)
 
 12.0
 
 
 (28.0
)
 
 13.0
 
 
 (16.1
)
 
 18.0
 
 
 (4.5
)


 Derivative assets
 
 
 33.3
 
 
 37.8
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 (10.8
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 60.2
 
 
 33.4
 


 Other investments
 
 
 128.3
 
 
 (2.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (28.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 97.5
 
 
 (2.6
)


 Separate account assets (2)
 
 
 3,771.5
 
 
 406.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 88.9
 
 
 13.5
 
 
 (82.3
)
 
 4,198.2
 
 
 400.9
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
 (6.6
)
 
 (206.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 17.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (195.8
)
 
 (206.6
)


 Derivative liabilities
 
 
 (181.5
)
 
 (11.4
)
 
 0.2
 
 
 15.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (177.1
)
 
 (8.6
)


 Other liabilities (3)
 
 
 (156.8
)
 
 (1.2
)
 
 13.4
 
 
 (15.9
)
 
 —
 
 
 136.3
 
 
 (24.2
)
 
 (1.1
)




160



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued) 


































 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2010 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in
unrealized
gains (losses)
included in
net income
relating to
positions
still held (1) 
 


 
 
Beginning
asset/
(liability)
balance as of
December 31,
2009 
 
Purchases,
sales,
issuances
and
settlements
(4) 
 
 
 
 
 
Ending
asset/
(liability)
balance
as of
December 31,
2010 
 


 
 
Included
in net
income (1) 
 
Included
in other
comprehensive
income 
 
Transfers
into
Level 3 
 
Transfers
out of
Level 3 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
$
16.1
 
$
(0.1
)
$
0.1
 
$
8.4
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
24.5
 
$
(0.1
)


 State and political subdivisions
 
 
11.5
 
 
—
 
 
1.0
 
 
—
 
 
11.5
 
 
(24.0
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Corporate
 
 
737.3
 
 
0.7
 
 
26.9
 
 
(193.2
)
 
152.2
 
 
(171.8
)
 
552.1
 
 
(2.2
)


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
34.3
 
 
(0.1
)
 
1.0
 
 
11.2
 
 
—
 
 
(30.2
)
 
16.2
 
 
(0.1
)


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
296.8
 
 
(14.9
)
 
40.0
 
 
(125.2
)
 
0.9
 
 
(88.3
)
 
109.3
 
 
(1.9
)


 Other debt obligations
 
 
76.6
 
 
—
 
 
4.5
 
 
36.9
 
 
32.9
 
 
(62.1
)
 
88.8
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
1,172.6
 
 
(14.4
)
 
73.5
 
 
(261.9
)
 
197.5
 
 
(376.4
)
 
790.9
 
 
(4.3
)


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
63.5
 
 
13.5
 
 
—
 
 
194.1
 
 
—
 
 
(2.0
)
 
269.1
 
 
13.2
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
71.7
 
 
2.6
 
 
(8.2
)
 
(21.4
)
 
0.1
 
 
(1.6
)
 
43.2
 
 
3.3
 


 Derivative assets
 
 
54.4
 
 
(18.3
)
 
(0.1
)
 
(2.7
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
33.3
 
 
(17.1
)


 Other investments
 
 
—
 
 
25.9
 
 
—
 
 
102.4
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
128.3
 
 
25.9
 


 Separate account assets (2)
 
 
4,120.7
 
 
304.0
 
 
(0.4
)
 
(564.2
)
 
28.5
 
 
(117.1
)
 
3,771.5
 
 
249.0
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
(23.6
)
 
(8.2
)
 
—
 
 
25.2
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(6.6
)
 
(8.6
)


 Derivative liabilities
 
 
(93.7
)
 
9.9
 
 
(1.4
)
 
(96.3
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(181.5
)
 
8.0
 


 Other liabilities (3)
 
 
(89.1
)
 
9.3
 
 
(28.3
)
 
(48.7
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(156.8
)
 
2.3
 



































 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2009 
 
 
 


 
 
Changes in
unrealized
gains (losses)
included in
net income
relating to
positions still
held (1) 
 


 
 
Beginning
asset/
(liability)
balance as of
December 31,
2008 
 
Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) 
 
 
 
 
 
Ending
asset/
(liability)
balance
as of
December 31,
2009 
 


 
 
Purchases,
sales,
issuances
and
settlements 
 
 
 


 
 
Included
in net
income (1) 
 
Included
in other
comprehensive
income 
 
Transfers
in (out) of
Level 3 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
$
45.3
 
$
(10.3
)
$
2.4
 
$
(21.3
)
$
—
 
$
16.1
 
$
(0.1
)


 State and political subdivisions
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1.3
 
 
—
 
 
10.2
 
 
11.5
 
 
—
 


 Corporate
 
 
750.9
 
 
(26.7
)
 
160.6
 
 
(348.3
)
 
200.8
 
 
737.3
 
 
(32.2
)


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
58.0
 
 
(0.3
)
 
9.8
 
 
(12.1
)
 
(21.1
)
 
34.3
 
 
—
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
236.8
 
 
(63.9
)
 
150.4
 
 
(10.6
)
 
(15.9
)
 
296.8
 
 
(63.5
)


 Other debt obligations
 
 
82.0
 
 
(2.1
)
 
17.4
 
 
25.9
 
 
(46.6
)
 
76.6
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
1,173.0
 
 
(103.3
)
 
341.9
 
 
(366.4
)
 
127.4
 
 
1,172.6
 
 
(95.8
)


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
60.7
 
 
13.0
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(10.2
)
 
63.5
 
 
13.1
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
56.2
 
 
(0.2
)
 
30.3
 
 
(43.7
)
 
29.1
 
 
71.7
 
 
(2.0
)


 Derivative assets
 
 
100.7
 
 
(43.6
)
 
(0.2
)
 
(2.5
)
 
—
 
 
54.4
 
 
(30.5
)


 Separate account assets (2)
 
 
6,042.3
 
 
(1,601.5
)
 
—
 
 
(291.6
)
 
(28.5
)
 
4,120.7
 
 
(1,488.3
)


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
(60.2
)
 
10.8
 
 
—
 
 
25.8
 
 
—
 
 
(23.6
)
 
10.8
 


 Derivative liabilities
 
 
(266.9
)
 
141.4
 
 
7.2
 
 
24.6
 
 
—
 
 
(93.7
)
 
88.8
 


 Other liabilities (3)
 
 
(103.8
)
 
—
 
 
33.2
 
 
(18.5
)
 
—
 
 
(89.1
)
 
—
 








(1)Both
realized gains (losses) and mark-to-market unrealized gains (losses) are generally reported in net realized capital gains (losses) within the
consolidated statements of operations. Realized and unrealized gains (losses) on certain fixed maturities, trading and certain 

161



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued) 


derivatives
used in relation to certain trading portfolios are reported in net investment income within the consolidated statements of operations.  


(2)Gains
and losses for separate account assets do not impact net income as the change in value of separate account assets is offset by a change in value of
separate account liabilities. Foreign currency translation adjustments related to the Principal International segment separate account assets are recorded in AOCI and are offset by foreign currency
translation adjustments of the corresponding separate account liabilities.
(3)Certain
embedded derivatives reported in other liabilities are part of a cash flow hedge, with the effective portion of the unrealized gains (losses)
recorded in AOCI.
(4)As
a result of our implementation of new authoritative guidance related to the accounting for VIEs effective January 1, 2010, certain previously
unconsolidated VIEs were consolidated and certain previously consolidated VIEs were deconsolidated. The fair value of the Level 3 assets and liabilities of the newly consolidated and
deconsolidated VIEs is primarily included in fixed maturities, trading; other investments; derivative liabilities and other liabilities. As a result of our implementation of new authoritative guidance
related to the accounting for embedded credit derivatives effective July 1, 2010, we reclassified certain fixed maturities from available-for-sale to trading.
(5)Gross
purchases, sales, issuances and settlements were: 


























 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Purchases 
 
Sales 
 
Issuances 
 
Settlements 
 
Net purchases,
sales, issuances
and settlements 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-U.S. governments
 
 $
3.6
 
 $
(5.4
)
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
(1.8
)


 Corporate
 
 
 21.2
 
 
 (25.6
)
 
 —
 
 
 (38.3
)
 
 (42.7
)


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 (10.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (10.5
)


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
 1.3
 
 
 (0.4
)
 
 —
 
 
 (0.6
)
 
 0.3
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (30.5
)
 
 (30.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 26.1
 
 
 (41.9
)
 
 —
 
 
 (69.4
)
 
 (85.2
)


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 10.0
 
 
 (8.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 (28.5
)
 
 (27.2
)


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 (28.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (28.0
)


 Derivative assets
 
 
 19.0
 
 
 (29.8
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (10.8
)


 Other investments
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (28.3
)
 
 (28.3
)


 Separate account assets
 
 
 342.7
 
 
 (191.8
)
 
 —
 
 
 (62.0
)
 
 88.9
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment-type insurance contracts
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 9.2
 
 
 7.9
 
 
 17.1
 


 Derivative liabilities
 
 
 (12.1
)
 
 27.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 15.6
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 (2.1
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (13.8
)
 
 (15.9
)




 Transfers  
        Transfers between fair value hierarchy levels are recognized at the beginning of the reporting period. 
        Assets
transferred into Level 3 during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $159.2 million, $226.1 million and $531.9 million, respectively. The majority of assets
transferred into Level 3 primarily include those assets for which we are now unable to obtain pricing from a recognized third party pricing vendor and, to a lesser extent, assets added to our
"watch list" that were previously priced using a matrix pricing valuation approach that may no longer be relevant when applied to asset-specific situations. 
        Assets
transferred out of Level 3 during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $454.8 million, $497.1 million and $414.1 million, respectively, and liabilities transferred
out of Level 3 during 2011 were $136.3 million. The majority of assets that transferred out of Level 3 and the liabilities that transferred out of Level 3 include those for
which we are now able to obtain pricing from a recognized third party pricing vendor. 
        We
had significant transfers of separate account assets between Level 1 and Level 2, primarily related to foreign equity securities. When these securities are valued at the
local close price of the exchange where the assets traded, they are reflected in Level 1. When events materially affecting the value occur between the close of the local exchange and the
New York Stock Exchange, we use adjusted prices determined by a third party pricing vendor to update the foreign market closing prices and the fair value is reflected in Level 2. During
2011 and 2010, $2,796.1 million and $6,600.6 million, respectively, of separate account assets transferred out of Level 2 into Level 1. During 2011 and 2010,
$3,595.9 million and $3,128.3 million, respectively, of separate account assets transferred out of Level 1 into Level 2. 
        Other
transfers into and out of Level 2 during 2011 and 2010 primarily included those that transferred out of and into Level 3, respectively. 
162



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued) 
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis  
        Certain assets are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. During 2011, mortgage loans had been marked to fair value of
$206.0 million. The net impact of impairments and improvements in estimated fair value of previously impaired loans resulted in a net loss of $27.7 million that was recorded in net
realized capital gains (losses) as part of the mortgage loan valuation allowance. These collateral-dependent mortgage loans are a Level 3 fair value measurement, as fair value is based on the
fair value of the underlying real estate collateral, which is estimated using appraised values that involve at least one significant unobservable input. 
        During
2011, certain mortgage servicing rights had been marked to fair value of $4.4 million. The net impact of impairments and subsequent improvements in estimated fair value of
previously impaired mortgage servicing rights resulted in a net loss of $1.1 million that was recorded in operating expenses. These mortgage servicing rights are a
Level 3 fair value measurement, as fair value is determined by calculating the present value of the future servicing cash flows from the underlying mortgage loans. 
        During
2010, certain mortgage loans had been impaired or written down to fair value of $250.7 million. The impairments resulted in a loss of $79.6 million that was recorded
in net realized capital gains (losses) as part of the mortgage loan valuation allowance. These collateral-dependent mortgage loans are a Level 3 fair value measurement, as fair value is based
on the fair value of the underlying real estate collateral, which is estimated using appraised values that involve significant unobservable inputs. 
        During
2010, certain real estate had been written down to fair value of $1.4 million. This write down resulted in a loss of $0.3 million that was recorded in net realized
capital gains (losses). This is a Level 3 fair value measurement, as the fair value of real estate is estimated using appraised values that involve significant unobservable inputs. 
        During
2010, certain mortgage servicing rights had been written down to fair value of $1.0 million, resulting in a charge of $0.6 million that was recorded in operating
expenses. These mortgage servicing rights are a Level 3 fair value measurement, as fair value is determined by calculating the present value of the future servicing cash flows from the
underlying mortgage loans. 
        During
2010, we impaired goodwill and finite lived intangible assets. See Note 2, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, for further details. 
        During
2009, certain mortgage loans had been written down to fair value of $3.9 million. This write down resulted in a loss of $8.0 million that was recorded in net
realized capital gains (losses). These collateral-dependent mortgage loans are a Level 3 fair value measurement, as fair value is based on the fair value of the underlying real estate
collateral, which is estimated using appraised values that involve significant unobservable inputs. 
        During
2009, certain real estate had been written down to fair value of $0.9 million. This write down resulted in a loss of $0.8 million that was recorded in net realized
capital gains (losses). This is a Level 3 fair value measurement, as the fair value of the real estate is estimated using appraised values that involve significant unobservable inputs. 
        During
2009, a customer-based intangible asset that resulted from our acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. had been written down to fair value of $19.1 million. The cash flows
associated with this intangible are credited to an outside party. As a result, a long-term debt obligation that we assumed with the purchase of WM Advisors, Inc. was also written down to a fair value
of $19.1 million. There was no impact to our consolidated statement of operations, as both of these write-downs are reported in operating expenses. This is a Level 3 fair value
measurement, as the fair value is determined by calculating the present value of future cash flows that are expected to emerge from the customer-based intangible asset. 
 Fair Value Option  
        As a result of our implementation of new authoritative guidance related to the accounting for VIEs effective January 1, 2010, we
elected fair value accounting for certain assets and liabilities of newly consolidated VIEs for which it was not practicable for us to determine the carrying value. The fair value option was elected
for commercial mortgage loans reported with other investments and obligations reported with other liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position. The changes in fair value of these
items are reported in net realized capital gains (losses) on the consolidated statements of operations. 
163




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 14. Fair Value Measurements — (continued)  

        The fair value and aggregate contractual principal amounts of commercial mortgage loans for which the fair value option has been elected were $97.5 million and
$96.1 million as of December 31, 2011, and $128.3 million and $124.4 million as of December 31, 2010, respectively. The change in fair value of the loans resulted in
a $(2.6) million and $25.9 million pre-tax gain (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, none of which related to instrument-specific credit risk. None
of these loans were more than 90 days past due or in nonaccrual status. Interest income on these commercial mortgage loans is included in net investment income on the consolidated statements of
operations and is recorded based on the effective interest rates as determined at the closing of the loan. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we recorded $8.6 million and
$10.5 million, respectively, of interest income on these commercial mortgage loans. 
        The
fair value and aggregate unpaid principal amounts of obligations for which the fair value option has been elected were $88.4 million and $169.8 million as of
December 31, 2011, and $114.5 million and $186.5 million as of December 31, 2010, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the change in fair
value of the obligations resulted in a $1.2 million and $(2.9) million pre-tax gain (loss), which includes a pre-tax gain (loss) of $(1.1) million and $3.0 million related
to instrument-specific credit risk that is estimated based on credit spreads and quality ratings, respectively. Interest expense recorded on these obligations is included in operating expenses on the
consolidated
statements of operations and was $6.7 million and $8.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 15. Statutory Insurance Financial Information  

        Principal Life, the largest indirect subsidiary of PFG, prepares statutory financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the Insurance
Division of the Department of Commerce of the State of Iowa (the "State of Iowa"). The State of Iowa recognizes only statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the State of Iowa for
determining and reporting the financial condition and results of operations of an insurance company to determine its solvency under the Iowa Insurance Law. The National Association of Insurance
Commissioners' ("NAIC") Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual has been adopted as a component of prescribed practices by the State of Iowa. The Commissioner has the right to permit other specific
practices that deviate from prescribed practices. As of December 31, 2011, our use of prescribed and permitted statutory accounting practices has resulted in higher statutory capital and
surplus of $267.4 million relative to the accounting practices and procedures of the NAIC primarily due to a state prescribed practice associated with reinsurance of our term life products and
"secondary" or "no lapse" guarantee provisions on our universal life products. Statutory accounting practices differ from U.S. GAAP primarily due to charging policy acquisition costs to expense
as incurred, establishing reserves using different actuarial assumptions, valuing investments on a different basis and not admitting certain assets, including certain net deferred income tax assets. 
        Life
and health insurance companies are subject to certain risk-based capital ("RBC") requirements as specified by the NAIC. Under those requirements, the amount of capital and surplus
maintained by a life and health insurance company is to be determined based on the various risk factors related to it. At December 31, 2011, Principal Life meets the minimum RBC requirements. 
        Statutory
net income and statutory capital and surplus of Principal Life were as follows: 



















 
 
As of or for the year ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Statutory net income
 
 $
326.8
 
 $
404.6
 
 $
42.1
 


 Statutory capital and surplus
 
 
 4,218.2
 
 
 4,377.8
 
 
 4,588.7
 




 16. Segment Information  

        We provide financial products and services through the following segments: Retirement and Investor Services, Principal Global Investors, Principal International and U.S. Insurance
Solutions. In addition, there is a Corporate segment. The segments are managed and reported separately because they provide different products and services, have different strategies or have different
markets and distribution channels. 
        The
Retirement and Investor Services segment provides retirement and related financial products and services primarily to businesses, their employees and other individuals. 
        The
Principal Global Investors segment provides asset management services to our asset accumulation business, our insurance operations, the Corporate segment and third-party clients. 
164



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 16. Segment Information — (continued) 
        The
Principal International segment has operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, India, Mexico and Southeast Asia. We focus on countries with large
middle classes, favorable demographics and growing long-term savings, ideally with defined contribution markets. We entered these countries through acquisitions, start-up operations and
joint ventures. 
        The
U.S. Insurance Solutions segment provides individual life insurance and specialty benefits, which consists of group dental and vision insurance, individual and group disability
insurance, group life insurance, wellness services and non-medical fee-for-service claims administration, throughout the United States. 
        The
Corporate segment manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing
activities (including interest expense and preferred stock dividends), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter-segment eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and
other after-tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. 
        Management
uses segment operating earnings in goal setting, as a basis for determining employee compensation and in evaluating performance on a basis comparable to that used by
securities analysts. We determine segment operating earnings by adjusting U.S. GAAP net income for net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, and other after-tax adjustments which
management believes are not indicative of overall operating trends. Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, are net of income taxes, related changes in the amortization pattern of DPAC and
sales inducements, recognition of deferred front-end fee revenues for sales charges on retirement and life insurance products and services, amortization of hedge accounting book value adjustments for
certain discontinued hedges, net realized capital gains and losses distributed, noncontrolling interest capital gains and losses and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. Net realized
capital gains (losses), as adjusted, exclude periodic settlements and accruals on derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments and exclude certain market value adjustments of embedded
derivatives and realized capital gains (losses) associated with our exited group medical insurance business. Segment operating revenues exclude net realized capital gains (losses) (except periodic
settlements and accruals on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments), including their impact on recognition of front-end fee revenues, certain market value adjustments to fee revenues and
amortization of hedge accounting book value adjustments for certain discontinued hedges, and revenue from our exited group medical insurance business. Segment operating revenues include operating
revenues from real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations. While these items may be significant components in understanding and assessing the consolidated financial performance,
management believes the presentation of segment operating earnings enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting earnings attributable to the normal, ongoing operations of
the business. 
        The
accounting policies of the segments are consistent with the accounting policies for the consolidated financial statements, with the exception of income tax allocation. The Corporate
segment functions to absorb the risk inherent in interpreting and applying tax law. The segments are allocated tax adjustments consistent with the positions we took on tax returns. The Corporate
segment results reflect any differences between the tax returns and the estimated resolution of any disputes. 
        The
following tables summarize selected financial information by segment and reconcile segment totals to those reported in the consolidated financial statements: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement and Investor Services
 
 $
109,481.8
 
 $
110,043.0
 


 Principal Global Investors
 
 
 1,833.3
 
 
 1,308.1
 


 Principal International
 
 
 15,662.8
 
 
 12,774.5
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
 17,790.9
 
 
 16,558.2
 


 Corporate
 
 
 3,529.2
 
 
 4,947.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total consolidated assets
 
 $
148,298.0
 
 $
145,631.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




165



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 16. Segment Information — (continued) 



















 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating revenues by segment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement and Investor Services
 
 $
4,074.1
 
 $
4,124.4
 
 $
4,041.5
 


 Principal Global Investors
 
 
 546.3
 
 
 481.4
 
 
 439.4
 


 Principal International
 
 
 909.5
 
 
 779.9
 
 
 562.1
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
 2,984.4
 
 
 2,775.1
 
 
 2,812.6
 


 Corporate
 
 
 (189.2
)
 
 (118.9
)
 
 (143.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total segment operating revenues
 
 
 8,325.1
 
 
 8,041.9
 
 
 7,712.2
 


 Net realized capital losses, net of related revenue adjustments
 
 
 (221.8
)
 
 (286.4
)
 
 (473.2
)


 Exited group medical insurance business
 
 
 606.3
 
 
 1,403.9
 
 
 1,610.6
 


 Terminated commercial mortgage securities issuance operation
 
 
 —
 
 
 (0.8
)
 
 (0.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues per consolidated statements of operations
 
 $
8,709.6
 
 $
9,158.6
 
 $
8,849.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating earnings (loss) by segment, net of related income taxes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement and Investor Services
 
 $
581.1
 
 $
584.4
 
 $
510.4
 


 Principal Global Investors
 
 
 74.0
 
 
 58.5
 
 
 38.2
 


 Principal International
 
 
 154.0
 
 
 136.9
 
 
 118.9
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
 215.9
 
 
 193.7
 
 
 204.1
 


 Corporate
 
 
 (146.9
)
 
 (128.7
)
 
 (138.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total segment operating earnings, net of related income taxes
 
 
 878.1
 
 
 844.8
 
 
 733.3
 


 Net realized capital losses, as adjusted (1)
 
 
 (148.3
)
 
 (194.2
)
 
 (213.4
)


 Other after-tax adjustments (2)
 
 
 (47.8
)
 
 15.7
 
 
 69.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders per consolidated statements of operations
 
 $
682.0
 
 $
666.3
 
 $
589.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Net
realized capital losses, as adjusted, is derived as follows: 





















 
 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
 
(in millions)
 


 
 Net realized capital losses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Net realized capital losses
 
 $
(122.3
)
 $
(191.5
)
 $
(398.3
)


 
 Certain derivative and hedging-related adjustments
 
 
 (98.8
)
 
 (90.0
)
 
 (69.0
)


 
 Certain market value adjustments to fee revenues
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 (3.4
)
 
 (1.5
)


 
 Recognition of front-end fee revenues
 
 
 (0.6
)
 
 (1.5
)
 
 (4.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Net realized capital losses, net of related revenue adjustments
 
 
 (221.8
)
 
 (286.4
)
 
 (473.2
)


 
 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs
 
 
 (31.5
)
 
 (25.2
)
 
 156.4
 


 
 Capital gains distributed
 
 
 (3.1
)
 
 (12.0
)
 
 (19.8
)


 
 Certain market value adjustments of embedded derivatives
 
 
 65.6
 
 
 7.2
 
 
 11.8
 


 
 Net realized capital (gains) losses associated with exited group medical insurance business
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 3.0
 
 
 0.5
 


 
 Noncontrolling interest capital gains
 
 
 (31.6
)
 
 (11.6
)
 
 (18.6
)


 
 Income tax effect
 
 
 74.3
 
 
 130.8
 
 
 129.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Net realized capital losses, as adjusted
 
 $
(148.3
)
 $
(194.2
)
 $
(213.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






(2)In
2011, other after-tax adjustments included (1) the negative effect resulting from (a) the impact of a court ruling on some uncertain tax
positions ($68.9 million), (b) a contribution made to The Principal Financial Group Foundation, Inc. ($19.5 million) and (c) our estimated obligation associated with
Executive Life of New York's liquidation petition ($10.3 million) and (2) the positive effect of gains associated with our exited group medical insurance business that does not
yet qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP ($50.9 million). 

In 2010, other after-tax adjustments included (1) the positive effect of gains associated with our exited group medical insurance business that does not
yet qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP ($24.0 million) and (2) the negative effect resulting from: (a) the tax impact of healthcare
reform, which eliminates the tax deductibility of retiree prescription drug expenses related to our employees incurred after 2012 ($7.8 million) and (b) losses associated with our
terminated commercial mortgage securities issuance operation that has been exited but does not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP ($0.5 million). 
In 2009, other after-tax adjustments included the positive effect of gains associated with our exited group medical insurance business that does not yet qualify
for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP ($70.5 million) and the negative effect of losses
associated with our terminated commercial mortgage securities issuance operation that has been exited but does not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP
($0.7 million). 


166



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 16. Segment Information — (continued) 
        The following is a summary of income tax expense (benefit) allocated to our segments for purposes of determining operating earnings. Segment
income taxes are reconciled to income taxes reported on our consolidated statements of operations. 



















 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Income tax expense by segment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement and Investor Services
 
 $
173.7
 
 $
170.5
 
 $
144.2
 


 Principal Global Investors
 
 
 41.0
 
 
 33.7
 
 
 21.0
 


 Principal International
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 (0.4
)
 
 0.5
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
 101.6
 
 
 91.5
 
 
 97.8
 


 Corporate
 
 
 (72.9
)
 
 (61.4
)
 
 (71.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total segment income taxes from operating earnings
 
 
 247.4
 
 
 233.9
 
 
 192.1
 


 Tax benefit related to net realized capital losses, as adjusted
 
 
 (74.3
)
 
 (130.8
)
 
 (129.5
)


 Tax expense related to other after-tax adjustments
 
 
 63.3
 
 
 21.0
 
 
 37.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total income tax expense per consolidated statements of operations
 
 $
236.4
 
 $
124.1
 
 $
100.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The following table summarizes operating revenues for our products and services: 



















 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Retirement and Investor Services:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Full-service accumulation
 
 $
1,337.1
 
 $
1,336.4
 
 $
1,283.9
 


 Principal Funds
 
 
 560.4
 
 
 507.3
 
 
 445.3
 


 Individual annuities
 
 
 1,119.2
 
 
 1,018.6
 
 
 945.6
 


 Bank and trust services
 
 
 100.5
 
 
 91.8
 
 
 83.9
 


 Eliminations
 
 
 (111.8
)
 
 (100.3
)
 
 (89.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Accumulation
 
 
 3,005.4
 
 
 2,853.8
 
 
 2,669.6
 


 Investment only
 
 
 508.0
 
 
 643.4
 
 
 796.0
 


 Full-service payout
 
 
 560.7
 
 
 627.2
 
 
 575.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Guaranteed
 
 
 1,068.7
 
 
 1,270.6
 
 
 1,371.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Retirement and Investor Services
 
 
 4,074.1
 
 
 4,124.4
 
 
 4,041.5
 


 Principal Global Investors (1)
 
 
 546.3
 
 
 481.4
 
 
 439.4
 


 Principal International
 
 
 909.5
 
 
 779.9
 
 
 562.1
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Individual life insurance
 
 
 1,476.5
 
 
 1,361.5
 
 
 1,358.0
 


 Specialty benefits insurance
 
 
 1,507.9
 
 
 1,413.6
 
 
 1,454.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
 2,984.4
 
 
 2,775.1
 
 
 2,812.6
 


 Corporate
 
 
 (189.2
)
 
 (118.9
)
 
 (143.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating revenues
 
 $
8,325.1
 
 $
8,041.9
 
 $
7,712.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total operating revenues
 
 $
8,325.1
 
 $
8,041.9
 
 $
7,712.2
 


 Net realized capital losses (except periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivatives), including recognition of front-end fee revenues and
certain market value adjustments to fee revenues
 
 
 (221.8
)
 
 (286.4
)
 
 (473.2
)


 Exited group medical insurance business
 
 
 606.3
 
 
 1,403.9
 
 
 1,610.6
 


 Terminated commercial mortgage securities issuance operation
 
 
 —
 
 
 (0.8
)
 
 (0.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues per consolidated statements of operations
 
 $
8,709.6
 
 $
9,158.6
 
 $
8,849.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Reflects
inter-segment revenues of $212.2 million, $203.1 million and $195.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These
revenues are eliminated within the Corporate segment. 

167




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 17. Stock-Based Compensation Plans  

        As of December 31, 2011, we have the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, the Stock Incentive Plan, the Directors Stock Plan
and the Long-Term Performance Plan ("Stock-Based Compensation Plans"). As of May 17, 2005, no new grants will be made under the Stock Incentive Plan, the Directors Stock Plan or the Long-Term
Performance Plan. Under the terms of the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, grants may be nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options qualifying under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code,
restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance shares, performance units or other stock based awards. The 2005 Directors Stock Plan provides for the grant of
nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units or other stock-based awards to our nonemployee directors. To date, we have not granted any incentive stock options, restricted
stock or performance units. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, the maximum number of new shares of common stock that were available for grant under the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2005 Directors Stock Plan was
10.6 million. 
        For
awards with graded vesting, we use an accelerated expense attribution method. The compensation cost that was charged against income for stock-based awards granted under the
Stock-Based Compensation Plans was as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Compensation cost
 
 $
46.3
 
 $
50.8
 
 $
48.8
 


 Related income tax benefit
 
 
 15.8
 
 
 16.1
 
 
 15.5
 


 Capitalized as part of an asset
 
 
 2.6
 
 
 2.8
 
 
 3.7
 




 Nonqualified Stock Options  
        Nonqualified stock options were granted to certain employees under the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock Incentive Plan. Options
outstanding under the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan and the Stock Incentive Plan were granted at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant, and expire ten
years after the grant date. These options have graded or cliff vesting over a three-year period, except in the case of approved retirement. Total options granted under the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan
were 0.5 million, 0.8 million and 2.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        Nonqualified
stock options granted under the Directors Stock Plan have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of the grant and a contractual
term equal to the earlier of five years from the date the participant ceases to provide service or the tenth anniversary of the date the option was granted. Beginning with the 2003 grant, options
become exercisable in four approximately equal installments on the three, six and nine month anniversaries of the grant date, and on the date that the Director's full term of office expires. There
were no options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
        The
following is a summary of the status of all of our stock option plans: 



















 
 
Number of options 
 
Weighted-
average
exercise price 
 
Intrinsic
Value 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 
(in millions)
 


 Options outstanding at January 1, 2011
 
 
 12.4
 
 $
38.75
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
 0.5
 
 
 34.26
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
 0.4
 
 
 18.83
 
 
 
 


 Expired
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 33.44
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Options outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
 12.2
 
 $
39.33
 
 $
27.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Options vested or expected to vest at December 31, 2011
 
 
 12.2
 
 $
39.34
 
 $
27.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Options exercisable at December 31, 2011
 
 
 10.5
 
 $
42.11
 
 $
18.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $4.0 million, $1.9 million and zero during 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively. 
168



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 17. Stock-Based Compensation Plans — (continued) 
        The
following is a summary of weighted-average remaining contractual lives for stock options outstanding and the range of exercise prices on the stock options: 
















Range of exercise prices 
 
Number of
options
outstanding 
 
Weighted-average
remaining
contractual life 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 


 $11.07 — $21.69
 
 
 1.9
 
 
 7
 


 $21.70 — $32.32
 
 
 1.6
 
 
 5
 


 $32.33 — $42.95
 
 
 3.9
 
 
 4
 


 $42.96 — $53.58
 
 
 1.7
 
 
 4
 


 $53.59 — $64.22
 
 
 3.1
 
 
 6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 $11.07 — $64.22
 
 
 12.2
 
 
 5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The weighted-average remaining contractual lives for stock options exercisable is approximately 4 years as of December 31, 2011. 
        The
fair value of stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following is a summary of the assumptions used in this model for the stock options granted
during the period: 



















 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 


Options 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Expected volatility
 
 
 67.9
%
 
 66.6
%
 
 55.0
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Expected term (in years)
 
 
 6
 
 
 6
 
 
 6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Risk-free interest rate
 
 
 2.5
%
 
 2.8
%
 
 2.1
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Expected dividend yield
 
 
 1.6
%
 
 2.25
%
 
 4.07
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average estimated fair value
 
 $
18.82
 
 $
11.48
 
 $
4.07
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        We determine expected volatility based on, among other factors, historical volatility using daily price observations. The expected term represents
the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. We determine expected term using historical exercise and employee termination data. The risk-free rate for periods within the
expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury risk-free interest rate in effect at the time of grant. The dividend yield is based on historical dividend distributions compared to the
closing price of our common shares on the grant date. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, there was $3.3 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested stock options. The cost is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average service period of approximately 1.7 years. 
        Cash
received from stock options exercised under these share-based payment arrangements during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $7.3 million, $2.2 million and $0.2 million,
respectively. The actual tax benefits realized for the tax deductions for options exercised under these share-based payment arrangements during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1.4 million,
$0.5 million and zero million, respectively. 
 Performance Share Awards  
        We granted performance share awards to certain employees under the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan. The performance share awards are treated
as an equity award and are paid in shares. Whether the performance shares are earned depends upon the participant's continued employment through the performance period (except in the case of an
approved retirement) and our performance against three-year goals set at the beginning of the performance period. Performance goals based on various factors, including return on equity, earnings per
share, operating income and book value per share, must be achieved for any of the performance shares to be earned. If the performance requirements are not met, the performance shares will be
forfeited, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation cost is reversed. There is no maximum contractual term on these awards. Dividend equivalents are credited on
performance shares outstanding as of the record date. These dividend equivalents are only paid on the shares released. Total performance share awards granted were 0.3 million,
0.4 million and 0.5 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
169



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 17. Stock-Based Compensation Plans — (continued) 
        The
following is a summary of activity for the nonvested performance share awards: 
















 
 
Number of
performance share
awards 
 
Weighted-average
grant-date
fair value 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 


 Nonvested performance share awards at January 1, 2011
 
 
 1.1
 
 $
26.01
 


 Granted
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 34.26
 


 Canceled
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 59.00
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Nonvested performance share awards at December 31, 2011
 
 
 1.1
 
 $
20.08
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Performance share awards above represent initial target awards and do not reflect potential increases or decreases resulting from the final
performance objectives to be determined at the end of the respective performance period. The actual number of shares to be awarded at the end of each performance period will range between 0% and 150%
of the initial target awards. 
        The
total intrinsic value of performance share awards vested was zero, zero and $6.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        The
fair value of performance share awards is determined based on the closing stock price of our common shares on the grant date. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of
performance share awards granted during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $34.26, $22.21 and $11.64, respectively. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, there was $4.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested performance share awards granted. The cost is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average service period of approximately 1.5 years. 
        The
actual tax benefits realized for the tax deductions for performance share award payouts under these share-based payment arrangements was $2.4 million in 2009. There were no
tax benefits realized in 2011 and 2010. 
 Restricted Stock Units  
        We issue restricted stock units under the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, 2005 Directors Stock Plan, Stock Incentive Plan, and Directors
Stock Plan. Restricted stock units are treated as an equity award. There is no maximum contractual term on these awards. Dividend equivalents are credited on restricted stock units outstanding as of
the record date. These dividend equivalents are only paid on the shares released. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, 0.9 million, 1.2 million and 1.9 million restricted stock units were
granted, respectively. 
        Restricted
stock units were issued to certain employees and agents pursuant to the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan and Stock Incentive Plan. Under these plans, awards have graded or cliff
vesting over a three-year service period. When service for PFG ceases (except in the case of an approved retirement), all vesting stops and unvested units are forfeited. 
        Pursuant
to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, restricted stock units are granted to each non-employee director in office immediately following each annual meeting of stockholders and, at
the discretion of the Nominating and Governance Committee, to each person who becomes a member of the Board other than on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders. Under the 2005 Directors Stock
Plan, awards are granted on an annual basis and cliff vest after a one-year service period. When service to PFG ceases, all vesting stops and unvested units are forfeited. 
        The
following is a summary of activity for the nonvested restricted stock units: 
















 
 
Number of
restricted stock
units 
 
Weighted-average
grant-date fair
value 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 


 Nonvested restricted stock units at January 1, 2011
 
 
 2.9
 
 $
23.75
 


 Granted
 
 
 0.9
 
 
 33.35
 


 Vested
 
 
 0.6
 
 
 49.60
 


 Canceled
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 21.86
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Nonvested restricted stock units at December 31, 2011
 
 
 3.1
 
 $
21.68
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The total intrinsic value of restricted stock units vested was $19.9 million, $11.6 million and $3.9 million during 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. 
170



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 17. Stock-Based Compensation Plans — (continued) 
        The
fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the closing stock price of our common shares on the grant date. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of restricted
stock units granted during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $33.35, $22.78 and $11.94, respectively. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, there was $29.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock unit awards granted under these plans. The
cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.8 years. 
        The
actual tax benefits realized for the tax deductions for restricted stock unit payouts under these share-based payment arrangements for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $7.3 million,
$3.2 million and $1.6 million, respectively. 
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan  
        Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, participating employees have the opportunity to purchase shares of our common stock on a
semi-annual basis. Employees may purchase up to $25,000 worth of company stock each year. Employees may purchase shares of our common stock at a price equal to 85% of the shares' fair market value as
of the beginning or end of the purchase period, whichever is lower. Under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, employees purchased 0.7 million, 0.9 million and 1.1 million shares
during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        We
recognize compensation expense for the fair value of the discount granted to employees participating in the employee stock purchase plan in the period of grant. Shares of the Employee
Stock Purchase Plan are treated as an equity award. The weighted-average fair value of the discount on the stock purchased was $4.20, $7.43 and $5.08 during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The
total intrinsic value of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares settled was $3.1 million, $6.8 million and $5.6 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        Cash
received from shares issued under these share-based payment arrangements for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $18.7 million, $18.5 million and $13.8 million,
respectively. The actual tax benefits realized for the tax deductions for the settlement of the share-based payment arrangements for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0.7 million, $0.7 million
and $0.4 million, respectively. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, a total of 6.9 million of new shares are available to be made issuable by us for this plan. 
 18. Earnings Per Common Share  

        The computations of the basic and diluted per share amounts were as follows: 



















 
 
For the year ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions,
except per share data)
 


 Net income
 
 $
751.2
 
 $
717.2
 
 $
645.7
 


 Subtract:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 36.2
 
 
 17.9
 
 
 23.0
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
682.0
 
 $
666.3
 
 $
589.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted-average shares outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
 314.5
 
 
 320.3
 
 
 297.3
 


 Dilutive effects:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stock options
 
 
 1.2
 
 
 0.9
 
 
 0.4
 


 Performance share awards
 
 
 0.4
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 —
 


 Restricted stock units
 
 
 1.5
 
 
 1.5
 
 
 1.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted
 
 
 317.6
 
 
 323.0
 
 
 298.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 $
2.17
 
 $
2.08
 
 $
1.98
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted
 
 $
2.15
 
 $
2.06
 
 $
1.97
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The calculation of diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, excludes the incremental effect related
to certain outstanding stock-based compensation grants due to their anti-dilutive effect. 
171




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 19. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)  

        The following is a summary of unaudited quarterly results of operations. 






















 
 
For the three months ended 
 


 
 
December 31 
 
September 30 
 
June 30 (1) 
 
March 31 
 


 
 
(in millions, except per share data)
 


 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 $
2,059.0
 
$
2,088.8
 
$
2,342.0
 
$
2,219.8
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 1,865.4
 
 
1,950.6
 
 
1,969.7
 
 
1,936.3
 


 Net income
 
 
 171.9
 
 
66.3
 
 
289.9
 
 
223.1
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 
 164.0
 
 
63.7
 
 
258.0
 
 
196.3
 


 Basic earnings per common share for net income available to common stockholders
 
 
 0.54
 
 
0.20
 
 
0.81
 
 
0.61
 


 Diluted earnings per common share for net income available to common stockholders
 
 
 0.54
 
 
0.20
 
 
0.80
 
 
0.60
 


 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
$
2,372.5
 
$
2,288.5
 
$
2,233.6
 
$
2,264.0
 


 Total expenses
 
 
2,108.8
 
 
2,125.0
 
 
2,075.8
 
 
2,007.7
 


 Net income
 
 
218.1
 
 
151.3
 
 
144.2
 
 
203.6
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 
199.3
 
 
142.2
 
 
134.0
 
 
190.8
 


 Basic earnings per common share for net income available to common stockholders
 
 
0.62
 
 
0.44
 
 
0.42
 
 
0.60
 


 Diluted earnings per common share for net income available to common stockholders
 
 
0.62
 
 
0.44
 
 
0.42
 
 
0.59
 








(1)During
the second quarter of 2010, we determined our residential mortgage loan portfolio, and in particular our home equity loan portfolio, had experienced
an increase in severe delinquencies and loss severity from sustained elevated levels of unemployment along with continued depressed collateral values. The deterioration resulted in an increase in
delinquencies and default costs. During the second quarter of 2010, we recorded a $41.9 million after-tax residential mortgage loan loss provision for our Bank and Trust Services business. Of
this residential mortgage loan loss provision, $21.4 million after-tax could be attributed to 2009. We evaluated the qualitative and quantitative factors for materiality. The adjustment related
to prior periods could be considered material to the results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2010, but was not material to the results of operations for any annual period
presented. The provision for loan loss is reported in net realized capital gains (losses) on our consolidated statements of operations and the adjustment for prior periods resulted in a decrease in
net income for the three months ended June 30, 2010. 

 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  

        Principal Life has established special purpose entities to issue secured medium-term notes. Under the program, the payment obligations of principal and interest on the notes are secured
by funding agreements issued by Principal Life.
Principal Life's payment obligations on the funding agreements are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by PFG. All of the outstanding stock of Principal Life is indirectly owned by PFG and PFG is the
only guarantor of the payment obligations of the funding agreements. 
        The
following tables set forth condensed consolidating financial information of (i) PFG, (ii) Principal Life, (iii) Principal Financial Services, Inc. ("PFS") and
all other direct and indirect subsidiaries of PFG on a combined basis and (iv) the eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for PFG on a consolidated basis as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, and for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
        In
presenting the condensed consolidating financial statements, the equity method of accounting has been applied to (i) PFG's interest in PFS, (ii) Principal Life's
interest in all direct subsidiaries of Principal Life and (iii) PFS's interest in Principal Life even though all such subsidiaries meet the requirements to be consolidated under
U.S. GAAP. Earnings of subsidiaries are, therefore, reflected in the parent's investment and earnings. All intercompany balances and transactions, including elimination of the parent's
investment in subsidiaries, between PFG, Principal Life and PFS and all other subsidiaries have been eliminated, as shown in the column "Eliminations." These condensed consolidating financial
statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements. The financial information may not necessarily be indicative of results of operations, cash flows or financial
position had the subsidiaries operated as independent entities. 
172



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Financial Position
December 31, 2011  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company
Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc. and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
—
 
 $
43,285.3
 
 $
6,082.4
 
 $
(361.0
)
 $
49,006.7
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 268.7
 
 
 374.8
 
 
 328.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 971.7
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 —
 
 
 73.4
 
 
 3.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 77.1
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 404.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 404.8
 


 Mortgage loans
 
 
 —
 
 
 9,271.5
 
 
 1,831.8
 
 
 (376.1
)
 
 10,727.2
 


 Real estate
 
 
 —
 
 
 9.2
 
 
 1,084.9
 
 
 (1.2
)
 
 1,092.9
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 —
 
 
 859.3
 
 
 25.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 885.1
 


 Investment in unconsolidated entities
 
 
 10,447.1
 
 
 3,116.1
 
 
 5,300.5
 
 
 (18,034.2
)
 
 829.5
 


 Other investments
 
 
 7.0
 
 
 2,559.0
 
 
 925.3
 
 
 (1,332.8
)
 
 2,158.5
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 226.7
 
 
 1,344.5
 
 
 1,277.6
 
 
 (14.9
)
 
 2,833.9
 


 Accrued investment income
 
 
 1.8
 
 
 551.1
 
 
 66.6
 
 
 (4.3
)
 
 615.2
 


 Premiums due and other receivables
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,017.8
 
 
 827.7
 
 
 (600.3
)
 
 1,245.2
 


 Deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,034.5
 
 
 279.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,313.5
 


 Property and equipment
 
 
 —
 
 
 395.9
 
 
 61.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 457.2
 


 Goodwill
 
 
 —
 
 
 54.3
 
 
 428.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 482.3
 


 Other intangibles
 
 
 —
 
 
 29.2
 
 
 861.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 890.6
 


 Separate account assets
 
 
 —
 
 
 61,615.1
 
 
 9,749.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 71,364.4
 


 Other assets
 
 
 14.8
 
 
 668.9
 
 
 994.6
 
 
 (736.1
)
 
 942.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
10,966.1
 
 $
128,260.2
 
 $
30,532.6
 
 $
(21,460.9
)
 $
148,298.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Contractholder funds
 
 $
—
 
 $
37,356.8
 
 $
586.7
 
 $
(267.1
)
 $
37,676.4
 


 Future policy benefits and claims
 
 
 —
 
 
 16,370.8
 
 
 3,937.9
 
 
 (100.8
)
 
 20,207.9
 


 Other policyholder funds
 
 
 —
 
 
 514.8
 
 
 29.0
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 543.7
 


 Short-term debt
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 105.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 105.2
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
 1,351.7
 
 
 99.4
 
 
 504.8
 
 
 (391.1
)
 
 1,564.8
 


 Income taxes currently payable
 
 
 (18.6
)
 
 (218.4
)
 
 34.3
 
 
 205.8
 
 
 3.1
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
 (22.5
)
 
 403.3
 
 
 167.2
 
 
 (14.6
)
 
 533.4
 


 Separate account liabilities
 
 
 —
 
 
 61,615.1
 
 
 9,749.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 71,364.4
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 18.5
 
 
 4,293.8
 
 
 4,590.8
 
 
 (2,617.0
)
 
 6,286.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 1,329.1
 
 
 120,435.6
 
 
 19,705.2
 
 
 (3,184.9
)
 
 138,285.0
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Series A preferred stock
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Series B preferred stock
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.1
 


 Common stock
 
 
 4.5
 
 
 2.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 (2.5
)
 
 4.5
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
 9,634.7
 
 
 5,718.1
 
 
 7,870.2
 
 
 (13,588.3
)
 
 9,634.7
 


 Retained earnings
 
 
 5,077.5
 
 
 1,826.0
 
 
 2,335.6
 
 
 (4,161.6
)
 
 5,077.5
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 201.9
 
 
 278.0
 
 
 241.3
 
 
 (519.3
)
 
 201.9
 


 Treasury stock, at cost
 
 
 (5,281.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (5,281.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity attributable to PFG
 
 
 9,637.0
 
 
 7,824.6
 
 
 10,447.1
 
 
 (18,271.7
)
 
 9,637.0
 


 Noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 380.3
 
 
 (4.3
)
 
 376.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
 9,637.0
 
 
 7,824.6
 
 
 10,827.4
 
 
 (18,276.0
)
 
 10,013.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
 $
10,966.1
 
 $
128,260.2
 
 $
30,532.6
 
 $
(21,460.9
)
 $
148,298.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




173



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Financial Position
December 31, 2010  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company
Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc. and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
$
199.9
 
$
42,478.2
 
$
6,381.9
 
$
(423.7
)
$
48,636.3
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
274.9
 
 
475.8
 
 
369.6
 
 
—
 
 
1,120.3
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
—
 
 
165.8
 
 
4.1
 
 
—
 
 
169.9
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
—
 
 
0.3
 
 
316.6
 
 
—
 
 
316.9
 


 Mortgage loans
 
 
—
 
 
9,466.9
 
 
2,072.3
 
 
(414.1
)
 
11,125.1
 


 Real estate
 
 
—
 
 
9.6
 
 
1,055.6
 
 
(1.7
)
 
1,063.5
 


 Policy loans
 
 
—
 
 
878.3
 
 
25.6
 
 
—
 
 
903.9
 


 Investment in unconsolidated entities
 
 
10,195.1
 
 
3,433.6
 
 
4,841.9
 
 
(17,734.6
)
 
736.0
 


 Other investments
 
 
5.6
 
 
1,603.8
 
 
769.0
 
 
(472.8
)
 
1,905.6
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
370.9
 
 
699.8
 
 
719.9
 
 
86.8
 
 
1,877.4
 


 Accrued investment income
 
 
0.8
 
 
607.4
 
 
62.5
 
 
(4.6
)
 
666.1
 


 Premiums due and other receivables
 
 
—
 
 
862.6
 
 
405.4
 
 
(205.0
)
 
1,063.0
 


 Deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
—
 
 
3,258.7
 
 
271.1
 
 
—
 
 
3,529.8
 


 Property and equipment
 
 
—
 
 
389.6
 
 
69.1
 
 
—
 
 
458.7
 


 Goodwill
 
 
—
 
 
54.3
 
 
291.1
 
 
—
 
 
345.4
 


 Other intangibles
 
 
—
 
 
30.5
 
 
804.1
 
 
—
 
 
834.6
 


 Separate account assets
 
 
—
 
 
62,738.4
 
 
6,816.9
 
 
—
 
 
69,555.3
 


 Other assets
 
 
13.6
 
 
716.0
 
 
1,146.3
 
 
(552.6
)
 
1,323.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
11,060.8
 
$
127,869.6
 
$
26,423.0
 
$
(19,722.3
)
$
145,631.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Contractholder funds
 
$
—
 
$
37,353.3
 
$
208.9
 
$
(261.1
)
$
37,301.1
 


 Future policy benefits and claims
 
 
—
 
 
16,082.5
 
 
4,013.3
 
 
(49.5
)
 
20,046.3
 


 Other policyholder funds
 
 
—
 
 
569.2
 
 
23.0
 
 
—
 
 
592.2
 


 Short-term debt
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
107.9
 
 
—
 
 
107.9
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
1,351.7
 
 
99.5
 
 
581.0
 
 
(448.5
)
 
1,583.7
 


 Income taxes currently payable
 
 
(18.8
)
 
(188.0
)
 
28.5
 
 
184.5
 
 
6.2
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
(21.6
)
 
134.8
 
 
309.8
 
 
(13.1
)
 
409.9
 


 Separate account liabilities
 
 
—
 
 
62,738.4
 
 
6,816.9
 
 
—
 
 
69,555.3
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
21.7
 
 
3,264.6
 
 
3,977.1
 
 
(1,119.9
)
 
6,143.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
1,333.0
 
 
120,054.3
 
 
16,066.4
 
 
(1,707.6
)
 
135,746.1
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Series A preferred stock
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Series B preferred stock
 
 
0.1
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
0.1
 


 Common stock
 
 
4.5
 
 
2.5
 
 
—
 
 
(2.5
)
 
4.5
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
9,563.8
 
 
6,145.0
 
 
8,334.0
 
 
(14,479.0
)
 
9,563.8
 


 Retained earnings
 
 
4,612.3
 
 
1,472.4
 
 
1,546.3
 
 
(3,018.7
)
 
4,612.3
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
272.4
 
 
195.4
 
 
314.8
 
 
(510.2
)
 
272.4
 


 Treasury stock, at cost
 
 
(4,725.3
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(4,725.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity attributable to PFG
 
 
9,727.8
 
 
7,815.3
 
 
10,195.1
 
 
(18,010.4
)
 
9,727.8
 


 Noncontrolling interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
161.5
 
 
(4.3
)
 
157.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
9,727.8
 
 
7,815.3
 
 
10,356.6
 
 
(18,014.7
)
 
9,885.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
$
11,060.8
 
$
127,869.6
 
$
26,423.0
 
$
(19,722.3
)
$
145,631.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




174




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued)  
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Operations
For the year ended December 31, 2011  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company
Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc.
and Other
Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
—
 
 $
2,579.6
 
 $
311.4
 
 $
—
 
 $
2,891.0
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 0.2
 
 
 1,605.1
 
 
 1,257.6
 
 
 (297.8
)
 
 2,565.1
 


 Net investment income (loss)
 
 
 (12.0
)
 
 2,578.8
 
 
 763.8
 
 
 45.2
 
 
 3,375.8
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses), excluding impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 442.8
 
 
 (388.7
)
 
 20.9
 
 
 75.0
 


 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 (130.6
)
 
 (17.0
)
 
 —
 
 
 (147.6
)


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale reclassified to (from) other comprehensive income
 
 
 —
 
 
 (51.5
)
 
 1.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 (49.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 (182.1
)
 
 (15.2
)
 
 —
 
 
 (197.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses)
 
 
 —
 
 
 260.7
 
 
 (403.9
)
 
 20.9
 
 
 (122.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 (11.8
)
 
 7,024.2
 
 
 1,928.9
 
 
 (231.7
)
 
 8,709.6
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,850.5
 
 
 616.9
 
 
 (13.3
)
 
 4,454.1
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 —
 
 
 210.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 210.2
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 116.0
 
 
 2,077.9
 
 
 1,116.6
 
 
 (252.8
)
 
 3,057.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 116.0
 
 
 6,138.6
 
 
 1,733.5
 
 
 (266.1
)
 
 7,722.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
 (127.8
)
 
 885.6
 
 
 195.4
 
 
 34.4
 
 
 987.6
 


 Income taxes (benefits)
 
 
 (50.4
)
 
 297.7
 
 
 (11.1
)
 
 0.2
 
 
 236.4
 


 Equity in the net income of subsidiaries
 
 
 792.4
 
 
 7.2
 
 
 622.3
 
 
 (1,421.9
)
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 715.0
 
 
 595.1
 
 
 828.8
 
 
 (1,387.7
)
 
 751.2
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 36.4
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 36.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to PFG
 
 
 715.0
 
 
 595.1
 
 
 792.4
 
 
 (1,387.5
)
 
 715.0
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
682.0
 
 $
595.1
 
 $
792.4
 
 $
(1,387.5
)
 $
682.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




175



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Operations
For the year ended December 31, 2010  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company
Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc.
and Other
Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,260.2
 
 $
295.3
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,555.5
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 1,444.0
 
 
 1,139.1
 
 
 (285.1
)
 
 2,298.1
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 33.2
 
 
 2,800.9
 
 
 629.0
 
 
 33.4
 
 
 3,496.5
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses), excluding impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 160.2
 
 
 (111.9
)
 
 (0.3
)
 
 48.7
 


 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 (284.7
)
 
 (11.6
)
 
 —
 
 
 (296.3
)


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale reclassified to other comprehensive income
 
 
 —
 
 
 51.6
 
 
 4.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 56.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 (233.1
)
 
 (7.1
)
 
 —
 
 
 (240.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses)
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 (72.9
)
 
 (119.0
)
 
 (0.3
)
 
 (191.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 34.0
 
 
 7,432.2
 
 
 1,944.4
 
 
 (252.0
)
 
 9,158.6
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 —
 
 
 4,834.9
 
 
 520.6
 
 
 (17.1
)
 
 5,338.4
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 —
 
 
 219.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 219.9
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 117.0
 
 
 1,845.5
 
 
 1,034.6
 
 
 (238.1
)
 
 2,759.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 117.0
 
 
 6,900.3
 
 
 1,555.2
 
 
 (255.2
)
 
 8,317.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
 (83.0
)
 
 531.9
 
 
 389.2
 
 
 3.2
 
 
 841.3
 


 Income taxes (benefits)
 
 
 (31.6
)
 
 119.1
 
 
 36.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 124.1
 


 Equity in the net income of subsidiaries
 
 
 750.7
 
 
 72.5
 
 
 416.2
 
 
 (1,239.4
)
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 699.3
 
 
 485.3
 
 
 768.8
 
 
 (1,236.2
)
 
 717.2
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 18.1
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 17.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to PFG
 
 
 699.3
 
 
 485.3
 
 
 750.7
 
 
 (1,236.0
)
 
 699.3
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
666.3
 
 $
485.3
 
 $
750.7
 
 $
(1,236.0
)
 $
666.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




176



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Operations
For the year ended December 31, 2009  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company
Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc.
and Other
Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,479.9
 
 $
270.7
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,750.6
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,351.7
 
 
 1,023.7
 
 
 (279.4
)
 
 2,096.0
 


 Net investment income
 
 
 3.6
 
 
 2,931.0
 
 
 405.7
 
 
 60.5
 
 
 3,400.8
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses), excluding impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 (436.6
)
 
 581.2
 
 
 (89.8
)
 
 54.9
 


 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 (703.3
)
 
 (10.8
)
 
 —
 
 
 (714.1
)


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale reclassified to other comprehensive income
 
 
 —
 
 
 256.8
 
 
 4.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 260.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 (446.5
)
 
 (6.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 (453.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses)
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 (883.1
)
 
 574.5
 
 
 (89.8
)
 
 (398.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 3.7
 
 
 6,879.5
 
 
 2,274.6
 
 
 (308.7
)
 
 8,849.1
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,007.6
 
 
 343.5
 
 
 (16.6
)
 
 5,334.5
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 —
 
 
 242.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 242.2
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 90.8
 
 
 1,665.3
 
 
 997.2
 
 
 (226.7
)
 
 2,526.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 90.8
 
 
 6,915.1
 
 
 1,340.7
 
 
 (243.3
)
 
 8,103.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
 (87.1
)
 
 (35.6
)
 
 933.9
 
 
 (65.4
)
 
 745.8
 


 Income taxes (benefits)
 
 
 (34.7
)
 
 (72.7
)
 
 206.9
 
 
 0.6
 
 
 100.1
 


 Equity in the net income (loss) of subsidiaries
 
 
 675.1
 
 
 466.7
 
 
 (28.7
)
 
 (1,113.1
)
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 622.7
 
 
 503.8
 
 
 698.3
 
 
 (1,179.1
)
 
 645.7
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 23.2
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 23.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to PFG
 
 
 622.7
 
 
 503.8
 
 
 675.1
 
 
 (1,178.9
)
 
 622.7
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
589.7
 
 $
503.8
 
 $
675.1
 
 $
(1,178.9
)
 $
589.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




177




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued)  
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended December 31, 2011  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company
Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc. and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
 $
(73.3
)
 $
2,495.5
 
 $
374.7
 
 $
(83.6
)
 $
2,713.3
 


 Investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases
 
 
 (4.4
)
 
 (6,047.2
)
 
 (696.8
)
 
 6.0
 
 
 (6,742.4
)


 Sales
 
 
 200.0
 
 
 689.5
 
 
 116.2
 
 
 (25.0
)
 
 980.7
 


 Maturities
 
 
 4.4
 
 
 5,037.0
 
 
 719.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,760.8
 


 Mortgage loans acquired or originated
 
 
 —
 
 
 (1,372.7
)
 
 (169.0
)
 
 56.8
 
 
 (1,484.9
)


 Mortgage loans sold or repaid
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,548.6
 
 
 339.3
 
 
 (94.8
)
 
 1,793.1
 


 Real estate acquired
 
 
 —
 
 
 (0.3
)
 
 (129.6
)
 
 —
 
 
 (129.9
)


 Net purchases of property and equipment
 
 
 —
 
 
 (46.7
)
 
 (10.2
)
 
 —
 
 
 (56.9
)


 Purchase of interests in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (270.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (270.5
)


 Dividends and returns of capital received from unconsolidated entities
 
 
 506.5
 
 
 327.9
 
 
 756.5
 
 
 (1,590.9
)
 
 —
 


 Net change in other investments
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 (48.1
)
 
 14.5
 
 
 (18.3
)
 
 (52.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
 706.3
 
 
 88.0
 
 
 669.8
 
 
 (1,666.2
)
 
 (202.1
)


 Financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
 25.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 25.9
 


 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
 (556.4
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (556.4
)


 Proceeds from financing element derivatives
 
 
 —
 
 
 75.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 75.9
 


 Payments for financing element derivatives
 
 
 —
 
 
 (46.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (46.5
)


 Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.8
 
 
 1.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 2.0
 


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
 (213.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (213.7
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
 (33.0
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (33.0
)


 Principal repayments of long-term debt
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (69.4
)
 
 57.2
 
 
 (12.2
)


 Net proceeds from short-term borrowings
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 3.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 3.2
 


 Dividends and capital paid to parent
 
 
 —
 
 
 (756.5
)
 
 (834.4
)
 
 1,590.9
 
 
 —
 


 Investment contract deposits
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,868.7
 
 
 433.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 6,302.1
 


 Investment contract withdrawals
 
 
 —
 
 
 (7,076.7
)
 
 (2.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 (7,079.0
)


 Net decrease in banking operation deposits
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (18.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (18.5
)


 Other
 
 
 —
 
 
 (4.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (4.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
 (777.2
)
 
 (1,938.8
)
 
 (486.8
)
 
 1,648.1
 
 
 (1,554.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 (144.2
)
 
 644.7
 
 
 557.7
 
 
 (101.7
)
 
 956.5
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
 370.9
 
 
 699.8
 
 
 719.9
 
 
 86.8
 
 
 1,877.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
 $
226.7
 
 $
1,344.5
 
 $
1,277.6
 
 $
(14.9
)
 $
2,833.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




178



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended December 31, 2010  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company
Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc. and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
$
29.3
 
$
2,374.5
 
$
414.8
 
$
(26.9
)
$
2,791.7
 


 Investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases
 
 
(286.8
)
 
(5,631.7
)
 
(1,273.5
)
 
4.1
 
 
(7,187.9
)


 Sales
 
 
95.5
 
 
1,240.8
 
 
380.3
 
 
(32.0
)
 
1,684.6
 


 Maturities
 
 
117.9
 
 
4,390.7
 
 
652.7
 
 
—
 
 
5,161.3
 


 Mortgage loans acquired or originated
 
 
—
 
 
(1,209.4
)
 
(295.8
)
 
233.2
 
 
(1,272.0
)


 Mortgage loans sold or repaid
 
 
—
 
 
1,624.1
 
 
422.6
 
 
(248.7
)
 
1,798.0
 


 Real estate acquired
 
 
—
 
 
(0.2
)
 
(53.6
)
 
—
 
 
(53.8
)


 Net purchases of property and equipment
 
 
—
 
 
(4.3
)
 
(17.2
)
 
—
 
 
(21.5
)


 Dividends and returns of capital received from unconsolidated entities
 
 
301.8
 
 
229.1
 
 
301.8
 
 
(832.7
)
 
—
 


 Net change in other investments
 
 
(0.2
)
 
(46.8
)
 
(163.3
)
 
129.1
 
 
(81.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
228.2
 
 
592.3
 
 
(46.0
)
 
(747.0
)
 
27.5
 


 Financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
20.6
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
20.6
 


 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
(2.6
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(2.6
)


 Proceeds from financing element derivatives
 
 
—
 
 
79.3
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
79.3
 


 Payments for financing element derivatives
 
 
—
 
 
(46.5
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(46.5
)


 Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements
 
 
—
 
 
0.4
 
 
0.6
 
 
—
 
 
1.0
 


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
(176.2
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(176.2
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
(33.0
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.0
)


 Issuance of long-term debt
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
27.6
 
 
(25.3
)
 
2.3
 


 Principal repayments of long-term debt
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(58.7
)
 
47.6
 
 
(11.1
)


 Net proceeds from (repayments of) short-term borrowings
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(30.4
)
 
32.1
 
 
1.7
 


 Dividends and capital paid to parent
 
 
—
 
 
(301.8
)
 
(530.9
)
 
832.7
 
 
—
 


 Investment contract deposits
 
 
—
 
 
4,100.0
 
 
183.8
 
 
—
 
 
4,283.8
 


 Investment contract withdrawals
 
 
—
 
 
(7,343.3
)
 
(0.1
)
 
—
 
 
(7,343.4
)


 Net increase in banking operation deposits
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
46.2
 
 
—
 
 
46.2
 


 Other
 
 
—
 
 
(4.3
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(4.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(191.2
)
 
(3,516.2
)
 
(361.9
)
 
887.1
 
 
(3,182.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
66.3
 
 
(549.4
)
 
6.9
 
 
113.2
 
 
(363.0
)


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
304.6
 
 
1,249.2
 
 
713.0
 
 
(26.4
)
 
2,240.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
370.9
 
$
699.8
 
$
719.9
 
$
86.8
 
$
1,877.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




179



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended December 31, 2009  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company
Only 
 
Principal Financial
Services, Inc. and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
$
(442.6
)
$
2,616.9
 
$
(129.2
)
$
197.9
 
$
2,243.0
 


 Investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases
 
 
(187.6
)
 
(6,537.4
)
 
(1,288.3
)
 
80.0
 
 
(7,933.3
)


 Sales
 
 
4.0
 
 
3,002.0
 
 
602.9
 
 
(169.1
)
 
3,439.8
 


 Maturities
 
 
57.1
 
 
3,944.6
 
 
566.4
 
 
—
 
 
4,568.1
 


 Mortgage loans acquired or originated
 
 
—
 
 
(507.3
)
 
(151.3
)
 
72.1
 
 
(586.5
)


 Mortgage loans sold or repaid
 
 
—
 
 
1,449.3
 
 
366.2
 
 
(111.1
)
 
1,704.4
 


 Real estate acquired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(62.2
)
 
—
 
 
(62.2
)


 Net purchases of property and equipment
 
 
(0.1
)
 
(11.1
)
 
(15.0
)
 
—
 
 
(26.2
)


 Purchases of interest in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(45.7
)
 
—
 
 
(45.7
)


 Contributions to unconsolidated entities
 
 
(795.9
)
 
(29.6
)
 
(150.9
)
 
976.4
 
 
—
 


 Net change in other investments
 
 
0.2
 
 
55.8
 
 
24.7
 
 
(112.3
)
 
(31.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
(922.3
)
 
1,366.3
 
 
(153.2
)
 
736.0
 
 
1,026.8
 


 Financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
1,123.0
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,123.0
 


 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
(4.1
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(4.1
)


 Proceeds from financing element derivatives
 
 
—
 
 
122.0
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
122.0
 


 Payments for financing element derivatives
 
 
—
 
 
(67.4
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(67.4
)


 Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements
 
 
—
 
 
0.1
 
 
0.1
 
 
—
 
 
0.2
 


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
(159.5
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(159.5
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
(33.0
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.0
)


 Issuance of long-term debt
 
 
745.1
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
745.1
 


 Principal repayments of long-term debt
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(665.1
)
 
196.9
 
 
(468.2
)


 Net repayments of short-term borrowings
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(405.2
)
 
0.1
 
 
(405.1
)


 Capital received from parent
 
 
—
 
 
150.9
 
 
825.5
 
 
(976.4
)
 
—
 


 Investment contract deposits
 
 
—
 
 
4,220.2
 
 
3.9
 
 
—
 
 
4,224.1
 


 Investment contract withdrawals
 
 
—
 
 
(8,752.7
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(8,752.7
)


 Net increase in banking operation deposits
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
43.9
 
 
—
 
 
43.9
 


 Other
 
 
—
 
 
(5.7
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(5.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
1,671.5
 
 
(4,332.6
)
 
(196.9
)
 
(779.4
)
 
(3,637.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
306.6
 
 
(349.4
)
 
(479.3
)
 
154.5
 
 
(367.6
)


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
(2.0
)
 
1,598.6
 
 
1,192.3
 
 
(180.9
)
 
2,608.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
304.6
 
$
1,249.2
 
$
713.0
 
$
(26.4
)
$
2,240.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        On May 24, 2011, our shelf registration statement was filed with the SEC and became effective. The shelf registration replaces the shelf
registration that had been in effect since June 2008, as it was scheduled to expire in June 2011. Under our current shelf registration, we have the ability to issue unsecured senior debt securities or
subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debt, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depository shares, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of PFG, trust preferred securities
of three subsidiary trusts and guarantees by PFG of these trust preferred securities. Our wholly owned subsidiary, PFS, may guarantee, fully and unconditionally or otherwise, our obligations with
respect to any non-convertible securities, other than common stock, described in the shelf registration statement. 
        The
following tables set forth condensed consolidating financial information of (i) PFG, (ii) PFS, (iii) Principal Life and all other direct and indirect
subsidiaries of PFG on a combined basis and (iv) the eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for PFG on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
        In
presenting the condensed consolidating financial statements, the equity method of accounting has been applied to (i) PFG's interest in PFS and (ii) PFS's interest in
Principal Life and all other subsidiaries, where applicable, even though all such subsidiaries meet the requirements to be consolidated under U.S. GAAP. Earnings of subsidiaries are, therefore,
reflected in the parent's investment and earnings. All intercompany balances and transactions, including elimination of the parent's investment in subsidiaries, between PFG, PFS and Principal Life and
all other subsidiaries have been eliminated, as shown in the column "Eliminations." These condensed consolidating financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements. The financial information may not
necessarily be indicative of results of operations, cash flows or financial position had the subsidiaries operated as independent entities. 
180




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued)  
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Financial Position
December 31, 2011  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Financial
Services, Inc. Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance Company
and Other
Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
49,006.7
 
 $
—
 
 $
49,006.7
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 268.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 703.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 971.7
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 77.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 77.1
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 404.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 404.8
 


 Mortgage loans
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 10,727.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 10,727.2
 


 Real estate
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,092.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,092.9
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 885.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 885.1
 


 Investment in unconsolidated entities
 
 
 10,447.1
 
 
 10,382.0
 
 
 829.5
 
 
 (20,829.1
)
 
 829.5
 


 Other investments
 
 
 7.0
 
 
 3.0
 
 
 2,148.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 2,158.5
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 226.7
 
 
 702.4
 
 
 2,787.9
 
 
 (883.1
)
 
 2,833.9
 


 Accrued investment income
 
 
 1.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 613.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 615.2
 


 Premiums due and other receivables
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,243.9
 
 
 1.3
 
 
 1,245.2
 


 Deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,313.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,313.5
 


 Property and equipment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 457.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 457.2
 


 Goodwill
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 482.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 482.3
 


 Other intangibles
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 890.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 890.6
 


 Separate account assets
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 71,364.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 71,364.4
 


 Other assets
 
 
 14.8
 
 
 10.4
 
 
 926.0
 
 
 (9.0
)
 
 942.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
10,966.1
 
 $
11,097.8
 
 $
147,954.0
 
 $
(21,719.9
)
 $
148,298.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Contractholder funds
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
37,676.4
 
 $
—
 
 $
37,676.4
 


 Future policy benefits and claims
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 20,207.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 20,207.9
 


 Other policyholder funds
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 543.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 543.7
 


 Short-term debt
 
 
 —
 
 
 50.0
 
 
 318.9
 
 
 (263.7
)
 
 105.2
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
 1,351.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 213.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,564.8
 


 Income taxes currently payable
 
 
 (18.6
)
 
 (0.9
)
 
 12.0
 
 
 10.6
 
 
 3.1
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
 (22.5
)
 
 (22.8
)
 
 595.4
 
 
 (16.7
)
 
 533.4
 


 Separate account liabilities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 71,364.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 71,364.4
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 18.5
 
 
 624.4
 
 
 6,264.2
 
 
 (621.0
)
 
 6,286.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 1,329.1
 
 
 650.7
 
 
 137,196.0
 
 
 (890.8
)
 
 138,285.0
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Series A preferred stock
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Series B preferred stock
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.1
 


 Common stock
 
 
 4.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 17.8
 
 
 (17.8
)
 
 4.5
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
 9,634.7
 
 
 7,870.2
 
 
 7,543.4
 
 
 (15,413.6
)
 
 9,634.7
 


 Retained earnings
 
 
 5,077.5
 
 
 2,335.6
 
 
 2,582.7
 
 
 (4,918.3
)
 
 5,077.5
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 201.9
 
 
 241.3
 
 
 240.1
 
 
 (481.4
)
 
 201.9
 


 Treasury stock, at cost
 
 
 (5,281.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 (2.0
)
 
 2.0
 
 
 (5,281.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity attributable to PFG
 
 
 9,637.0
 
 
 10,447.1
 
 
 10,382.0
 
 
 (20,829.1
)
 
 9,637.0
 


 Noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 376.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 376.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
 9,637.0
 
 
 10,447.1
 
 
 10,758.0
 
 
 (20,829.1
)
 
 10,013.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
 $
10,966.1
 
 $
11,097.8
 
 $
147,954.0
 
 $
(21,719.9
)
 $
148,298.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




181



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Financial Position
December 31, 2010  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Financial
Services, Inc. Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance Company
and Other
Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
199.9
 
 $
—
 
 $
48,436.4
 
 $
—
 
 $
48,636.3
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 274.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 845.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,120.3
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 169.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 169.9
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 316.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 316.9
 


 Mortgage loans
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 11,125.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 11,125.1
 


 Real estate
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,063.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,063.5
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 903.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 903.9
 


 Investment in unconsolidated entities
 
 
 10,195.1
 
 
 10,209.0
 
 
 735.8
 
 
 (20,403.9
)
 
 736.0
 


 Other investments
 
 
 5.6
 
 
 45.5
 
 
 1,854.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,905.6
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 370.9
 
 
 519.7
 
 
 1,821.7
 
 
 (834.9
)
 
 1,877.4
 


 Accrued investment income
 
 
 0.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 665.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 666.1
 


 Premiums due and other receivables
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,066.1
 
 
 (3.1
)
 
 1,063.0
 


 Deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,529.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,529.8
 


 Property and equipment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 458.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 458.7
 


 Goodwill
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 345.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 345.4
 


 Other intangibles
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 834.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 834.6
 


 Separate account assets
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 69,555.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 69,555.3
 


 Other assets
 
 
 13.6
 
 
 9.8
 
 
 1,302.4
 
 
 (2.5
)
 
 1,323.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
11,060.8
 
 $
10,784.0
 
 $
145,030.7
 
 $
(21,244.4
)
 $
145,631.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Contractholder funds
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
37,301.1
 
 $
—
 
 $
37,301.1
 


 Future policy benefits and claims
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 20,046.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 20,046.3
 


 Other policyholder funds
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 592.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 592.2
 


 Short-term debt
 
 
 —
 
 
 50.0
 
 
 352.3
 
 
 (294.4
)
 
 107.9
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
 1,351.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 232.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,583.7
 


 Income taxes currently payable
 
 
 (18.8
)
 
 (2.3
)
 
 11.6
 
 
 15.7
 
 
 6.2
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
 (21.6
)
 
 (8.7
)
 
 455.7
 
 
 (15.5
)
 
 409.9
 


 Separate account liabilities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 69,555.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 69,555.3
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 21.7
 
 
 549.9
 
 
 6,118.0
 
 
 (546.1
)
 
 6,143.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 1,333.0
 
 
 588.9
 
 
 134,664.5
 
 
 (840.3
)
 
 135,746.1
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Series A preferred stock
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Series B preferred stock
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.1
 


 Common stock
 
 
 4.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 17.8
 
 
 (17.8
)
 
 4.5
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
 9,563.8
 
 
 8,334.0
 
 
 7,730.0
 
 
 (16,064.0
)
 
 9,563.8
 


 Retained earnings
 
 
 4,612.3
 
 
 1,546.3
 
 
 2,142.4
 
 
 (3,688.7
)
 
 4,612.3
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 272.4
 
 
 314.8
 
 
 320.8
 
 
 (635.6
)
 
 272.4
 


 Treasury stock, at cost
 
 
 (4,725.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 (2.0
)
 
 2.0
 
 
 (4,725.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity attributable to PFG
 
 
 9,727.8
 
 
 10,195.1
 
 
 10,209.0
 
 
 (20,404.1
)
 
 9,727.8
 


 Noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 157.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 157.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
 9,727.8
 
 
 10,195.1
 
 
 10,366.2
 
 
 (20,404.1
)
 
 9,885.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
 $
11,060.8
 
 $
10,784.0
 
 $
145,030.7
 
 $
(21,244.4
)
 $
145,631.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




182



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Operations
For the year ended December 31, 2011  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Financial
Services, Inc. Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance Company
and Other
Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
2,891.0
 
 $
—
 
 $
2,891.0
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 0.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 2,567.9
 
 
 (3.0
)
 
 2,565.1
 


 Net investment income (loss)
 
 
 (12.0
)
 
 (3.3
)
 
 3,388.1
 
 
 3.0
 
 
 3,375.8
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses), excluding impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 75.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 75.0
 


 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (147.6
)
 
 —
 
 
 (147.6
)


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale reclassified from other comprehensive income
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (49.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 (49.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (197.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 (197.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital losses
 
 
 —
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 (122.2
)
 
 —
 
 
 (122.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 (11.8
)
 
 (3.4
)
 
 8,724.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 8,709.6
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 4,454.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 4,454.1
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 210.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 210.2
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 116.0
 
 
 1.7
 
 
 2,940.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 3,057.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 116.0
 
 
 1.7
 
 
 7,604.3
 
 
 —
 
 
 7,722.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
 (127.8
)
 
 (5.1
)
 
 1,120.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 987.6
 


 Income taxes (benefits)
 
 
 (50.4
)
 
 (10.0
)
 
 296.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 236.4
 


 Equity in the net income of subsidiaries
 
 
 792.4
 
 
 787.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 (1,579.9
)
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 715.0
 
 
 792.4
 
 
 823.7
 
 
 (1,579.9
)
 
 751.2
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 36.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 36.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to PFG
 
 
 715.0
 
 
 792.4
 
 
 787.5
 
 
 (1,579.9
)
 
 715.0
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
682.0
 
 $
792.4
 
 $
787.5
 
 $
(1,579.9
)
 $
682.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




183




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued)  
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Operations
For the year ended December 31, 2010  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc.
Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,555.5
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,555.5
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 2,302.8
 
 
 (4.8
)
 
 2,298.1
 


 Net investment income (loss)
 
 
 33.2
 
 
 (3.1
)
 
 3,461.7
 
 
 4.7
 
 
 3,496.5
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses), excluding impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 48.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 48.7
 


 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (296.3
)
 
 —
 
 
 (296.3
)


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale reclassified to other comprehensive income
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 56.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 56.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (240.2
)
 
 —
 
 
 (240.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses)
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 (192.0
)
 
 —
 
 
 (191.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 34.0
 
 
 (3.3
)
 
 9,128.0
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 9,158.6
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,338.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,338.4
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 219.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 219.9
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 117.0
 
 
 1.2
 
 
 2,640.9
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 2,759.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 117.0
 
 
 1.2
 
 
 8,199.2
 
 
 (0.1
)
 
 8,317.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
 (83.0
)
 
 (4.5
)
 
 928.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 841.3
 


 Income taxes (benefits)
 
 
 (31.6
)
 
 (1.7
)
 
 157.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 124.1
 


 Equity in the net income of subsidiaries
 
 
 750.7
 
 
 753.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 (1,504.2
)
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 699.3
 
 
 750.7
 
 
 771.4
 
 
 (1,504.2
)
 
 717.2
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 17.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 17.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to PFG
 
 
 699.3
 
 
 750.7
 
 
 753.5
 
 
 (1,504.2
)
 
 699.3
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
666.3
 
 $
750.7
 
 $
753.5
 
 $
(1,504.2
)
 $
666.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




184



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Operations
For the year ended December 31, 2009  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc.
Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums and other considerations
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,750.6
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,750.6
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 2,109.0
 
 
 (13.1
)
 
 2,096.0
 


 Net investment income (loss)
 
 
 3.6
 
 
 (0.5
)
 
 3,397.1
 
 
 0.6
 
 
 3,400.8
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses), excluding impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 (0.4
)
 
 55.1
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 54.9
 


 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (714.1
)
 
 —
 
 
 (714.1
)


 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale reclassified to other comprehensive income
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 260.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 260.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net impairment losses on available-for-sale securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (453.2
)
 
 —
 
 
 (453.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net realized capital gains (losses)
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 (0.4
)
 
 (398.1
)
 
 0.1
 
 
 (398.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 3.7
 
 
 (0.8
)
 
 8,858.6
 
 
 (12.4
)
 
 8,849.1
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,334.5
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,334.5
 


 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 242.2
 
 
 —
 
 
 242.2
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 90.8
 
 
 27.9
 
 
 2,420.3
 
 
 (12.4
)
 
 2,526.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 90.8
 
 
 27.9
 
 
 7,997.0
 
 
 (12.4
)
 
 8,103.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
 (87.1
)
 
 (28.7
)
 
 861.6
 
 
 —
 
 
 745.8
 


 Income taxes (benefits)
 
 
 (34.7
)
 
 (21.0
)
 
 155.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 100.1
 


 Equity in the net income of subsidiaries
 
 
 675.1
 
 
 682.8
 
 
 —
 
 
 (1,357.9
)
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 622.7
 
 
 675.1
 
 
 705.8
 
 
 (1,357.9
)
 
 645.7
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 23.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 23.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to PFG
 
 
 622.7
 
 
 675.1
 
 
 682.8
 
 
 (1,357.9
)
 
 622.7
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
589.7
 
 $
675.1
 
 $
682.8
 
 $
(1,357.9
)
 $
589.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




185



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended December 31, 2011  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal
Financial
Services, Inc.
Only 
 
Principal Life
Insurance
Company and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
 $
(73.3
)
 $
70.5
 
 $
2,795.0
 
 $
(78.9
)
 $
2,713.3
 


 Investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases
 
 
 (4.4
)
 
 —
 
 
 (6,738.0
)
 
 —
 
 
 (6,742.4
)


 Sales
 
 
 200.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 780.7
 
 
 —
 
 
 980.7
 


 Maturities
 
 
 4.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,756.4
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,760.8
 


 Mortgage loans acquired or originated
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (1,484.9
)
 
 —
 
 
 (1,484.9
)


 Mortgage loans sold or repaid
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,793.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,793.1
 


 Real estate acquired
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (129.9
)
 
 —
 
 
 (129.9
)


 Net purchases of property and equipment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (56.9
)
 
 —
 
 
 (56.9
)


 Purchase of interests in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (270.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (270.5
)


 Dividends and returns of capital received from unconsolidated entities
 
 
 506.5
 
 
 624.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 (1,130.6
)
 
 —
 


 Net change in other investments
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 (5.4
)
 
 (46.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (52.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
 706.3
 
 
 618.7
 
 
 (396.5
)
 
 (1,130.6
)
 
 (202.1
)


 Financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
 25.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 25.9
 


 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
 (556.4
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (556.4
)


 Proceeds from financing element derivatives
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 75.9
 
 
 —
 
 
 75.9
 


 Payments for financing element derivatives
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (46.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (46.5
)


 Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 2.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 2.0
 


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
 (213.7
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (213.7
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
 (33.0
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (33.0
)


 Principal repayments of long-term debt
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (12.2
)
 
 —
 
 
 (12.2
)


 Net proceeds from (repayments of) short-term borrowings
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (27.5
)
 
 30.7
 
 
 3.2
 


 Dividends and capital paid to parent
 
 
 —
 
 
 (506.5
)
 
 (624.1
)
 
 1,130.6
 
 
 —
 


 Investment contract deposits
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 6,302.1
 
 
 —
 
 
 6,302.1
 


 Investment contract withdrawals
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (7,079.0
)
 
 —
 
 
 (7,079.0
)


 Net decrease in banking operation deposits
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (18.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (18.5
)


 Other
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (4.5
)
 
 —
 
 
 (4.5
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
 (777.2
)
 
 (506.5
)
 
 (1,432.3
)
 
 1,161.3
 
 
 (1,554.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 (144.2
)
 
 182.7
 
 
 966.2
 
 
 (48.2
)
 
 956.5
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
 370.9
 
 
 519.7
 
 
 1,821.7
 
 
 (834.9
)
 
 1,877.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
 $
226.7
 
 $
702.4
 
 $
2,787.9
 
 $
(883.1
)
 $
2,833.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




186




 










Table of Contents 

Principal Financial Group, Inc.  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued)  
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued)  
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended December 31, 2010  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Financial Services, Inc. Only 
 
Principal Life Insurance Company and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
$
29.3
 
$
(19.7
)
$
2,777.2
 
$
4.9
 
$
2,791.7
 


 Investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases
 
 
(286.8
)
 
—
 
 
(6,901.1
)
 
—
 
 
(7,187.9
)


 Sales
 
 
95.5
 
 
—
 
 
1,589.1
 
 
—
 
 
1,684.6
 


 Maturities
 
 
117.9
 
 
—
 
 
5,043.4
 
 
—
 
 
5,161.3
 


 Mortgage loans acquired or originated
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1,272.0
)
 
—
 
 
(1,272.0
)


 Mortgage loans sold or repaid
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,798.0
 
 
—
 
 
1,798.0
 


 Real estate acquired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(53.8
)
 
—
 
 
(53.8
)


 Net purchases of property and equipment
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(21.5
)
 
—
 
 
(21.5
)


 Dividends and returns of capital received from unconsolidated entities
 
 
301.8
 
 
326.4
 
 
—
 
 
(628.2
)
 
—
 


 Net change in other investments
 
 
(0.2
)
 
5.4
 
 
(84.3
)
 
(2.1
)
 
(81.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by investing activities
 
 
228.2
 
 
331.8
 
 
97.8
 
 
(630.3
)
 
27.5
 


 Financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
20.6
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
20.6
 


 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
(2.6
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(2.6
)


 Proceeds from financing element derivatives
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
79.3
 
 
—
 
 
79.3
 


 Payments for financing element derivatives
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(46.5
)
 
—
 
 
(46.5
)


 Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1.0
 
 
—
 
 
1.0
 


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
(176.2
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(176.2
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
(33.0
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.0
)


 Issuance of long-term debt
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2.3
 
 
—
 
 
2.3
 


 Principal repayments of long-term debt
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(11.1
)
 
—
 
 
(11.1
)


 Net proceeds from (repayments of) short-term borrowings
 
 
—
 
 
(25.0
)
 
9.0
 
 
17.7
 
 
1.7
 


 Dividends and capital paid to parent
 
 
—
 
 
(301.8
)
 
(326.4
)
 
628.2
 
 
—
 


 Investment contract deposits
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,283.8
 
 
—
 
 
4,283.8
 


 Investment contract withdrawals
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(7,343.4
)
 
—
 
 
(7,343.4
)


 Net increase in banking operation deposits
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
46.2
 
 
—
 
 
46.2
 


 Other
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(4.3
)
 
—
 
 
(4.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(191.2
)
 
(326.8
)
 
(3,310.1
)
 
645.9
 
 
(3,182.2
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
66.3
 
 
(14.7
)
 
(435.1
)
 
20.5
 
 
(363.0
)


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
304.6
 
 
534.4
 
 
2,256.8
 
 
(855.4
)
 
2,240.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
370.9
 
$
519.7
 
$
1,821.7
 
$
(834.9
)
$
1,877.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




187



 
Table of Contents

Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — (continued) 
 20. Condensed Consolidating Financial Information — (continued) 
 Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended December 31, 2009  

























 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Parent Only 
 
Principal Financial Services, Inc. Only 
 
Principal Life Insurance Company and
Other Subsidiaries
Combined 
 
Eliminations 
 
Principal
Financial
Group, Inc.
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
$
(442.6
)
$
179.1
 
$
2,640.7
 
$
(134.2
)
$
2,243.0
 


 Investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases
 
 
(187.6
)
 
(50.0
)
 
(7,695.7
)
 
—
 
 
(7,933.3
)


 Sales
 
 
4.0
 
 
—
 
 
3,435.8
 
 
—
 
 
3,439.8
 


 Maturities
 
 
57.1
 
 
—
 
 
4,511.0
 
 
—
 
 
4,568.1
 


 Mortgage loans acquired or originated
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(586.5
)
 
—
 
 
(586.5
)


 Mortgage loans sold or repaid
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,704.4
 
 
—
 
 
1,704.4
 


 Real estate acquired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(62.2
)
 
—
 
 
(62.2
)


 Net purchases of property and equipment
 
 
(0.1
)
 
—
 
 
(26.1
)
 
—
 
 
(26.2
)


 Purchases of interest in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(45.7
)
 
—
 
 
(45.7
)


 Contributions to unconsolidated entities
 
 
(795.9
)
 
(111.8
)
 
—
 
 
907.7
 
 
—
 


 Net change in other investments
 
 
0.2
 
 
37.8
 
 
(33.8
)
 
(35.8
)
 
(31.6
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
(922.3
)
 
(124.0
)
 
1,201.2
 
 
871.9
 
 
1,026.8
 


 Financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
1,123.0
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,123.0
 


 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
(4.1
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(4.1
)


 Proceeds from financing element derivatives
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
122.0
 
 
—
 
 
122.0
 


 Payments for financing element derivatives
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(67.4
)
 
—
 
 
(67.4
)


 Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
0.2
 
 
—
 
 
0.2
 


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
(159.5
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(159.5
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
(33.0
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(33.0
)


 Issuance of long-term debt
 
 
745.1
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
745.1
 


 Principal repayments of long-term debt
 
 
—
 
 
(454.6
)
 
(13.6
)
 
—
 
 
(468.2
)


 Net proceeds from (repayments of) short-term borrowings
 
 
—
 
 
(408.0
)
 
23.8
 
 
(20.9
)
 
(405.1
)


 Capital received from parent
 
 
—
 
 
795.9
 
 
111.8
 
 
(907.7
)
 
—
 


 Investment contract deposits
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,224.1
 
 
—
 
 
4,224.1
 


 Investment contract withdrawals
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(8,752.7
)
 
—
 
 
(8,752.7
)


 Net increase in banking operation deposits
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
43.9
 
 
—
 
 
43.9
 


 Other
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(5.7
)
 
—
 
 
(5.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
1,671.5
 
 
(66.7
)
 
(4,313.6
)
 
(928.6
)
 
(3,637.4
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
306.6
 
 
(11.6
)
 
(471.7
)
 
(190.9
)
 
(367.6
)


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
(2.0
)
 
546.0
 
 
2,728.5
 
 
(664.5
)
 
2,608.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
304.6
 
$
534.4
 
$
2,256.8
 
$
(855.4
)
$
2,240.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




188




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     
        None. 
 
 
  Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures     
 Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        Management of Principal Financial Group, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures
of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
        Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        Under
the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Larry D. Zimpleman, and our Chief Financial Officer, Terrance J.
Lillis, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation, management has concluded that Principal Financial
Group, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 
        Ernst &
Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited our financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K, has
issued their report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report is included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 
 Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our last fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
        In order to ensure that the information that we must disclose in our filings with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported on a timely basis, we have adopted disclosure controls and procedures. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with or submit to the SEC is
accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
        Our
Chief Executive Officer, Larry D. Zimpleman, and our Chief Financial Officer, Terrance J. Lillis, have reviewed and evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures as
of December 31, 2011, and have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective. 
 
 
  Item 9B.    Other Information     
        None 
189



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  PART III     
 
    Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     
        The information called for by Item 10 pertaining to directors is set forth in Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s proxy statement
relating to the 2012 annual stockholders meeting (the "Proxy Statement"), which will be filed with the SEC on or about April 11, 2012, under the captions, "Election of Directors," "Corporate
Governance," and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance." Such information is incorporated
herein by reference. The information called for by Item 10 pertaining to executive officers can be found in Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption, "Executive
Officers of the Registrant." The Company has adopted a code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. The code of ethics
has been posted on our Internet website, found at www.principal.com. We intend to satisfy disclosure requirements regarding amendments to, or waivers
from, any provision of our code of ethics on our website. 
 
 
  Item 11.    Executive Compensation     
        The information called for by Item 11 pertaining to executive compensation is set forth in the Proxy Statement under the
caption, "Executive Compensation," and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
 
  Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     
        The information called for by Item 12 pertaining to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is set forth
in the Proxy Statement under the caption, "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management," and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 Equity Compensation Plan Information  
        In general, we have three compensation plans under which our equity securities are authorized for issuance to employees or directors
(not including our tax qualified pension plans): the Principal Financial Group, Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, the Principal Financial Group, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the Principal
Financial Group, Inc. 2005 Directors Stock Plan. The following table shows the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of options outstanding at December 31, 2011, the weighted
average exercise price of those options and the number of shares of Common Stock remaining available for future issuance at December 31, 2011, excluding shares issuable upon exercise of
outstanding options. 



















 
 
(a)
 
(b)
 
(c)
 


Plan Category 
 
Number of securities
to be issued upon
exercise of outstanding
options, warrants
and rights 
 
Weighted-average
exercise price of
outstanding
options, warrants
and rights 
 
Number of securities
remaining available for
future issuance under
equity compensation
plans (excluding
securities reflected
in column (a)) 
 


 Equity compensation plans approved by our stockholders (1)
 
 
16,907,876  
(2)
$
39.33  
(3)
 
17,517,364  
(4)


 Equity compensation plans not approved by our stockholders
 
 
-0-  
 
 
n/a  
 
 
-0-  
 







(1)The
Principal Financial Group, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Principal Financial Group, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan and the Principal Financial
Group, Inc. Directors Stock Plan were each approved by our sole stockholder, Principal Mutual Holding Company, prior to our initial public offering of Common Stock on October 22, 2001.
Subsequently, the Principal Financial Group, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and the Principal Financial Group, Inc. 2005 Directors Stock Plan were each approved by our stockholders on May 17,
2005. An amendment to the Principal Financial Group, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan to increase the number of shares available for issuance under the plan was approved on May 19, 2009. On
May 18, 2010, our shareholders approved the 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, which replaced the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.
(2)Includes
12,119,730 options outstanding under the employee stock incentive plans, 64,265 options outstanding under the directors stock plans,
1,160,757 performance shares under the employee stock incentive plans, 3,344,928 restricted stock units under the employee stock incentive plans, 187,922 restricted stock units under the directors
stock plans and 30,274 other stock-based awards under the Directors 2005 Stock Plan for obligations under the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Principal Financial Group, Inc.
(3)The
weighted-average exercise price relates only to outstanding stock options, not to outstanding performance shares, restricted stock units or other
stock-based awards.
(4)This
number includes 6,900,188 shares remaining for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 10,352,422 shares available for issuance
in respect of future awards of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units and other stock-based awards under the 2010
Stock Incentive Plan and 264,754 shares available for issuance in respect of future awards of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards under the 2005
Directors Stock Plan. 
190



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence     
        The information called for by Item 13 pertaining to certain relationships and related transactions is set forth in the Proxy
Statement under the captions, "Corporate Governance — Director Independence," and "Corporate Governance — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions," and is
incorporated herein by reference. 
 
 
  Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services     
        The information called for by Item 14 pertaining to principal accounting fees and services is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption, "Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accountants," and is incorporated herein by reference. 
191



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  PART IV     
 
    Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     


a.Documents
filed as part of this report.


1.Financial
Statements (see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data) 



Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
Consolidated Statements of Operations
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 


2.Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Schedules 

Schedule I —
Summary of Investments — Other Than Investments in Related Parties
Schedule II — Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Only)
Schedule III — Supplementary Insurance Information
Schedule IV — Reinsurance 
All
other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable
and therefore have been omitted.  


3.Exhibits —
Please refer to the Exhibit Index on page 203. 


192








 










Table of Contents 
 
 Signatures  
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 













 
 
PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.


 Dated: February 15, 2012
 
 By
 
 /s/ TERRANCE J. LILLIS

  Terrance J. Lillis
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer




        Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the date indicated. 
Dated:
February 15, 2012 















By
 
 /s/ LARRY D. ZIMPLEMAN

  Larry D. Zimpleman
Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
 
 By
 
 /s/ C. DANIEL GELATT, JR.

  C. Daniel Gelatt, Jr.
Director


By
 
 /s/ TERRANCE J. LILLIS

  Terrance J. Lillis
Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer)
 
 By
 
 /s/ SANDRA L. HELTON

  Sandra L. Helton
Director


By
 
 /s/ BETSY J. BERNARD

  Betsy J. Bernard
Director
 
 By
 
 /s/ RICHARD L. KEYSER

  Richard L. Keyser
Director


By
 
 /s/ JOCELYN CARTER-MILLER

  Jocelyn Carter-Miller
Director
 
 By
 
 /s/ LUCA MAESTRI

  Luca Maestri
Director


By
 
 /s/ GARY E. COSTLEY

  Gary E. Costley
Director
 
 By
 
 /s/ ARJUN K. MATHRANI

  Arjun K. Mathrani
Director


By
 
 /s/ MICHAEL T. DAN

  Michael T. Dan
Director
 
 By
 
 /s/ ELIZABETH E. TALLETT

  Elizabeth E. Tallett
Director


By
 
 /s/ DENNIS H. FERRO

  Dennis H. Ferro
Director
 

 
 

 




193




 










Table of Contents 
 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Schedules  
The
Board of Directors and Stockholders
Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
        We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("the Company") as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2011, and have issued our report thereon dated February 15, 2012 (included elsewhere in this Form 10-K). Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15.a.2. of this Form 10-K. These
schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. 
        In
our opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in response to new accounting standards, the Company changed its methods of
accounting for credit derivatives embedded in beneficial interests in securitized financial assets effective July 1, 2010; for variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010; and
for other-than-temporary impairments on debt securities and for the treatment of noncontrolling interests effective January 1, 2009. 








 
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP



Des
Moines, Iowa
February 15, 2012 
194




 










Table of Contents 
 
 Schedule I — Summary of Investments — Other Than Investments in Related Parties
As of December 31, 2011  



















Type of Investment 
 
Cost 
 
Value 
 
Amount as
shown in the
Consolidated
Statement of
Financial
Position 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government corporations and agencies
 
 $
772.3
 
 $
805.1
 
 $
805.1
 


 States, municipalities and political subdivisions
 
 
 2,670.0
 
 
 2,882.7
 
 
 2,882.7
 


 Foreign governments
 
 
 917.6
 
 
 1,096.7
 
 
 1,096.7
 


 Public utilities
 
 
 4,566.0
 
 
 4,325.3
 
 
 4,325.3
 


 Redeemable preferred stock
 
 
 91.3
 
 
 89.0
 
 
 89.0
 


 All other corporate bonds
 
 
 27,296.8
 
 
 29,142.2
 
 
 29,142.2
 


 Residential mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 3,155.8
 
 
 3,343.0
 
 
 3,343.0
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 3,894.3
 
 
 3,413.7
 
 
 3,413.7
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
 399.7
 
 
 338.8
 
 
 338.8
 


 Other debt obligations
 
 
 3,606.9
 
 
 3,570.2
 
 
 3,570.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 
 47,370.7
 
 
 49,006.7
 
 
 49,006.7
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 971.7
 
 
 971.7
 
 
 971.7
 


 Equity securities, available-for-sale:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Common stocks:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Industrial, miscellaneous and all other
 
 
 5.9
 
 
 6.9
 
 
 6.9
 


 Non-redeemable preferred stock
 
 
 69.0
 
 
 70.2
 
 
 70.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total equity securities, available-for-sale
 
 
 74.9
 
 
 77.1
 
 
 77.1
 


 Equity securities, trading
 
 
 404.8
 
 
 404.8
 
 
 404.8
 


 Mortgage loans (1)
 
 
 10,829.3
 
 
 XXXX
 
 
 10,727.2
 


 Real estate, net:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Real estate acquired in satisfaction of debt
 
 
 230.0
 
 
 XXXX
 
 
 229.6
 


 Other real estate
 
 
 863.3
 
 
 XXXX
 
 
 863.3
 


 Policy loans
 
 
 885.1
 
 
 XXXX
 
 
 885.1
 


 Other investments (2)
 
 
 1,794.1
 
 
 XXXX
 
 
 2,988.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total investments
 
 $
63,423.9
 
 $
XXXX
 
 $
66,153.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







(1)The
amount shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for mortgage loans differs from cost as mortgage loans are generally reported at cost
adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances.
(2)The
amount shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for other investments differs from cost due to accumulated earnings from minority
interests in unconsolidated entities and properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. Other investments also includes derivative assets and certain seed money
investments, which are reported at fair value, and commercial mortgage loans of consolidated VIEs for which the fair value option was elected. 
195




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  Schedule II — Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Only)     
 Statements of Financial Position  
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
 
 $
—
 
 $
199.9
 


 Fixed maturities, trading
 
 
 268.7
 
 
 274.9
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 226.7
 
 
 370.9
 


 Other investments
 
 
 7.0
 
 
 5.6
 


 Income taxes receivable
 
 
 18.6
 
 
 18.8
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
 22.5
 
 
 21.6
 


 Amounts receivable from subsidiary
 
 
 0.9
 
 
 0.8
 


 Other assets
 
 
 15.7
 
 
 13.6
 


 Investment in subsidiary
 
 
 10,447.1
 
 
 10,195.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
11,007.2
 
 $
11,101.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Amounts payable to subsidiary
 
 $
1.4
 
 $
5.5
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
 1,351.7
 
 
 1,351.7
 


 Accrued interest payable
 
 
 15.4
 
 
 16.1
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 1.7
 
 
 0.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 1,370.2
 
 
 1,373.4
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Series A preferred stock, par value $.01 per share with liquidation preference of $100 per share — 3.0 million shares authorized,
issued and outstanding in 2011 and 2010
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Series B preferred stock, par value $.01 per share with liquidation preference of $25 per share — 10.0 million shares authorized,
issued and outstanding in 2011 and 2010
 
 
 0.1
 
 
 0.1
 


 Common stock, par value $.01 per share — 2,500.0 million shares authorized, 450.3 million and 448.5 million shares issued, and
301.1 million and 320.4 million shares outstanding in 2011 and 2010
 
 
 4.5
 
 
 4.5
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
 9,634.7
 
 
 9,563.8
 


 Retained earnings
 
 
 5,077.5
 
 
 4,612.3
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 201.9
 
 
 272.4
 


 Treasury stock, at cost (149.2 million and 128.1 million shares in 2011 and 2010)
 
 
 (5,281.7
)
 
 (4,725.3
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity attributable to Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 
 
 9,637.0
 
 
 9,727.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
 $
11,007.2
 
 $
11,101.2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes.  
196



 
Table of Contents
 Statements of Operations  



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fees and other revenues
 
 $
0.2
 
 $
0.1
 
 $
—
 


 Net investment income (loss)
 
 
 (12.0
)
 
 33.2
 
 
 3.6
 


 Net realized capital gains
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.7
 
 
 0.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
 (11.8
)
 
 34.0
 
 
 3.7
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other operating costs and expenses
 
 
 116.0
 
 
 117.0
 
 
 90.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
 116.0
 
 
 117.0
 
 
 90.8
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Losses before income taxes
 
 
 (127.8
)
 
 (83.0
)
 
 (87.1
)


 Income tax benefits
 
 
 (50.4
)
 
 (31.6
)
 
 (34.7
)


 Equity in the net income of subsidiaries
 
 
 792.4
 
 
 750.7
 
 
 675.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income attributable to Principal Financial Group, Inc. 
 
 
 715.0
 
 
 699.3
 
 
 622.7
 


 Preferred stock dividends
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 
 
 33.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
682.0
 
 $
666.3
 
 $
589.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes.  
197



 
Table of Contents
 Statements of Cash Flows  



















 
 
For the year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 Operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 $
715.0
 
 $
699.3
 
 $
622.7
 


 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Equity in the net income of subsidiaries
 
 
 (792.4
)
 
 (750.7
)
 
 (675.1
)


 Net realized capital gains
 
 
 —
 
 
 (0.7
)
 
 (0.1
)


 Net cash flows for trading securities
 
 
 21.7
 
 
 111.1
 
 
 (349.1
)


 Current and deferred income tax benefits
 
 
 (3.7
)
 
 (4.5
)
 
 (6.9
)


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
 1.6
 
 
 0.8
 
 
 1.0
 


 Other
 
 
 (15.5
)
 
 (26.0
)
 
 (35.1
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
 
 (73.3
)
 
 29.3
 
 
 (442.6
)


 Investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases
 
 
 (4.4
)
 
 (286.8
)
 
 (187.6
)


 Sales
 
 
 200.0
 
 
 95.5
 
 
 4.0
 


 Maturities
 
 
 4.4
 
 
 117.9
 
 
 57.1
 


 Net purchases of property and equipment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (0.1
)


 Net change in other investments
 
 
 (0.2
)
 
 (0.2
)
 
 0.2
 


 Dividends and returns of capital received from (contributions to) unconsolidated entity
 
 
 506.5
 
 
 301.8
 
 
 (795.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
 706.3
 
 
 228.2
 
 
 (922.3
)


 Financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
 25.9
 
 
 20.6
 
 
 1,123.0
 


 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
 (556.4
)
 
 (2.6
)
 
 (4.1
)


 Dividends to common stockholders
 
 
 (213.7
)
 
 (176.2
)
 
 (159.5
)


 Dividends to preferred stockholders
 
 
 (33.0
)
 
 (33.0
)
 
 (33.0
)


 Issuance of long-term debt
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 745.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
 (777.2
)
 
 (191.2
)
 
 1,671.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 (144.2
)
 
 66.3
 
 
 306.6
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
 370.9
 
 
 304.6
 
 
 (2.0
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
 $
226.7
 
 $
370.9
 
 $
304.6
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See accompanying notes.  
198



 
Table of Contents
 Notes to Condensed Financial Statements  
(1)   Basis of Presentation  
        The accompanying condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of Principal Financial
Group, Inc. 
        In
the parent company only financial statements, our investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries. 
(2)   Cash Dividends and Returns of Capital Received from (Capital Contributed to) Unconsolidated Entity  
        The parent company received cash dividends and returns of capital totaling $506.5 million and $301.8 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, from
its unconsolidated entity and contributed capital of $795.9 million to its unconsolidated entity in 2009. 
199




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 
  Schedule III — Supplementary Insurance Information  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009     



















Segment 
 
Deferred policy
acquisition
costs 
 
Future policy
benefits and
claims 
 
Contractholder
and other
policyholder
funds 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement and Investor Services
 
 $
1,276.0
 
$
8,563.1
 
$
33,268.9
 


 Principal Global Investors
 
 
 —
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Principal International
 
 
 279.0
 
 
3,821.3
 
 
83.1
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
 1,758.5
 
 
7,754.8
 
 
5,128.1
 


 Corporate
 
 
 —
 
 
68.7
 
 
(260.0
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
3,313.5
 
$
20,207.9
 
$
38,220.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement and Investor Services
 
$
1,321.1
 
$
8,299.5
 
$
33,448.4
 


 Principal Global Investors
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Principal International
 
 
271.0
 
 
3,969.3
 
 
68.8
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
1,937.7
 
 
7,586.4
 
 
4,599.8
 


 Corporate
 
 
—
 
 
191.1
 
 
(223.7
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
3,529.8
 
$
20,046.3
 
$
37,893.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




200



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Schedule III — Supplementary Insurance Information — (continued)  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009    


























Segment 
 
Premiums and
other
considerations 
 
Net
investment
income (1) 
 
Benefits, claims
and settlement
expenses 
 
Amortization of
deferred policy
acquisition
costs 
 
Other
operating
expenses (1) 
 


 
 
(in millions)
 


 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement and Investor Services
 
 $
390.4
 
$
2,182.8
 
$
1,933.3
 
$
222.1
 
$
1,136.3
 


 Principal Global Investors
 
 
 —
 
 
15.1
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
429.3
 


 Principal International
 
 
 264.5
 
 
470.4
 
 
581.7
 
 
(3.7
)
 
170.6
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
 1,724.0
 
 
669.9
 
 
1,562.6
 
 
319.6
 
 
586.6
 


 Corporate
 
 
 512.1
 
 
37.6
 
 
376.5
 
 
—
 
 
196.9
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
2,891.0
 
$
3,375.8
 
$
4,454.1
 
$
538.0
 
$
2,519.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement and Investor Services
 
$
332.2
 
$
2,366.5
 
$
2,122.8
 
$
192.2
 
$
1,059.1
 


 Principal Global Investors
 
 
—
 
 
13.4
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
384.4
 


 Principal International
 
 
255.2
 
 
375.5
 
 
497.7
 
 
4.3
 
 
139.5
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
1,685.7
 
 
650.0
 
 
1,734.3
 
 
9.4
 
 
541.8
 


 Corporate
 
 
1,282.4
 
 
91.1
 
 
983.6
 
 
—
 
 
428.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
3,555.5
 
$
3,496.5
 
$
5,338.4
 
$
205.9
 
$
2,553.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement and Investor Services
 
$
247.2
 
$
2,491.2
 
$
2,185.1
 
$
54.0
 
$
1,019.5
 


 Principal Global Investors
 
 
—
 
 
9.6
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
376.1
 


 Principal International
 
 
239.1
 
 
209.0
 
 
328.5
 
 
(1.7
)
 
115.8
 


 U.S. Insurance Solutions
 
 
1,776.6
 
 
620.5
 
 
1,644.9
 
 
39.9
 
 
545.7
 


 Corporate
 
 
1,487.7
 
 
70.5
 
 
1,176.0
 
 
—
 
 
377.3
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
3,750.6
 
$
3,400.8
 
$
5,334.5
 
$
92.2
 
$
2,434.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Allocations
of net investment income and certain operating expenses are based on a number of assumptions and estimates, and reported operating results would
change by segment if different methods were applied. 

201




 










Table of Contents 
 
 Schedule IV — Reinsurance
As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and for each of the years then ended  

























 
 
Gross
amount 
 
Ceded to
other
companies 
 
Assumed
from other
companies 
 
Net amount 
 
Percentage
of amount
assumed
to net 
 


 
 
($ in millions)
 


 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Life insurance in force
 
 $
256,880.3
 
$
94,839.7
 
$
1,814.9
 
$
163,855.5
 
 
1.1
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Life insurance
 
 $
1,493.2
 
$
160.9
 
$
3.0
 
$
1,335.3
 
 
0.2
%


 Accident and health insurance
 
 
 1,714.8
 
 
159.1
 
 
—
 
 
1,555.7
 
 
—
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
3,208.0
 
$
320.0
 
$
3.0
 
$
2,891.0
 
 
0.1
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Life insurance in force
 
$
241,996.5
 
$
84,403.8
 
$
2,051.9
 
$
159,644.6
 
 
1.3
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Life insurance
 
$
1,437.9
 
$
146.2
 
$
3.5
 
$
1,295.2
 
 
0.3
%


 Accident and health insurance
 
 
2,421.9
 
 
161.6
 
 
—
 
 
2,260.3
 
 
—
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
3,859.8
 
$
307.8
 
$
3.5
 
$
3,555.5
 
 
0.1
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Life insurance in force
 
$
237,454.2
 
$
76,507.1
 
$
2,328.2
 
$
163,275.3
 
 
1.4
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premiums:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Life insurance
 
$
1,389.6
 
$
140.5
 
$
5.2
 
$
1,254.3
 
 
0.4
%


 Accident and health insurance
 
 
2,658.0
 
 
161.7
 
 
—
 
 
2,496.3
 
 
—
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
4,047.6
 
$
302.2
 
$
5.2
 
$
3,750.6
 
 
0.1
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




202




 










Table of Contents 
 Exhibit Index  














 
 
Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
 
 
 2.1
 
 Plan of Conversion (1)


 
 
 
 2.2
 
 Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of May 11, 2004 by and between Principal Holding Company and CitiMortgage, Inc. (2)


 
 
 
 2.3
 
 Stock Purchase Agreement among Washington Mutual, Inc., New American Capital, Inc., Principal Financial Group, Inc., and Principal Management Corporation for the purchase and sale of the outstanding capital stock of
WM Advisors, Inc., dated as of July 25, 2006. (3)


 
 
 
 2.3.1
 
 Amendment No. 1 and Waiver, dated as of December 29, 2006, to the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 25, 2006, by and among Washington Mutual, Inc., New American Capital, Inc., Principal Financial
Group, Inc., and Principal Management Corporation for the purchase and sale of the outstanding capital stock of WM Advisors, Inc. (4)


 
 
 
 2.3.2
 
 Memorandum of Understanding dated as of December 29, 2006, amending and modifying the Stock Purchase Agreement by and among Washington Mutual, Inc., New American Capital, Inc., Principal Financial Group, Inc., and
Principal Management Corporation for the purchase and sale of the outstanding capital stock of WM Advisors, Inc. (4)


 
 
 
 3.1
 
 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Principal Financial Group, Inc. (included in Exhibit 2.1) (5)


 
 
 
 3.2
 
 Amended and Restated By-Laws of Principal Financial Group, Inc. (6)


 
 
 
 4.1
 
 Form of Certificate for the Common Stock of Principal Financial Group, Inc., par value $0.01 per share (1)


 
 
 
 4.1.1
 
 Certificate of Designations of the Company's Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, dated June 16, 2005. (5)


 
 
 
 4.1.2
 
 Certificate of Designations of the Company's Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, dated June 16, 2005. (5)


 
 
 
 4.1.3
 
 Specimen Stock Certificate for the Company's Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock. (5)


 
 
 
 4.1.4
 
 Specimen Stock Certificate for the Company's Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock. (5)


 
 
 
 4.1.5
 
 Senior Indenture, dated as of October 11, 2006, between Principal Financial Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. (7)


 
 
 
 4.1.6
 
 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 16, 2006, among Principal Financial Group, Inc., Principal Financial Services, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. (7)


 
 
 
 4.1.7
 
 6.05% Senior Note ($500,000,000) due October 15, 2036. (7)


 
 
 
 4.1.8
 
 6.05% Senior Note ($100,000,000) due October 15, 2036. (8)


 
 
 
 4.1.9
 
 Guarantee, dated as of October 16, 2006, by Principal Financial Services, Inc. (7)


 
 
 
 4.1.10
 
 Senior Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2009, among Principal Financial Group, Inc., Principal Financial Services, Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of New York, as trustee (9)


 
 
 
 4.1.11
 
 First Supplemental Indenture (including the form of 2014 Notes), dated as of May 21, 2009, among Principal Financial Group, Inc., as issuer, Principal Financial Services, Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, as trustee (9)


 
 
 
 4.1.12
 
 Second Supplemental Indenture (including the form of 2019 Notes), dated as of May 21, 2009, among Principal Financial Group, Inc., as issuer, Principal Financial Services, Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, as trustee (9)


 
 
 
 4.1.13
 
 Guarantee from Principal Financial Services, Inc. with respect to the 7.875% Senior Notes due 2014 (9)


 
 
 
 4.1.14
 
 Guarantee from Principal Financial Services, Inc. with respect to the 8.875% Senior Notes due 2019 (9)


 
 
 
 4.2
 
 Amended and Restated Stockholder Rights Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001 (10)


 
 
 
 4.2.1
 
 Amendment to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of January 17, 2005 (11)


 
 
 
 10.1
 
 Principal Financial Group, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan (12)


 
 
 
 10.1.1
 
 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (13)


 
 
 
 10.1.2
 
 Form of Stock Option Award Agreement (13)


 
 
 
 10.1.3
 
 Principal Financial Group, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (14)


 
 
 
 10.1.4
 
 Principal Financial Group, Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan (15)


 
 
 
 10.2
 
 Principal Financial Group Long-Term Performance Plan (1)


 
 
 
 10.3
 
 Resolution of Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of Principal Financial Group, Inc. amending the Principal Financial Group Long-Term Performance Plan as of October 31, 2002 (10)


 
 
 
 10.4
 
 Principal Financial Group Incentive Pay Plan (PrinPay), amended and restated effective January 1, 2002 (16)


 
 
 
 10.5
 
 Principal Financial Group, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan (11)


 
 
 
 10.6
 
 Revised Summary of Standard Compensatory Arrangement for Non-Employee Directors of the Principal Financial Group, Inc. Board of Directors. (17)


 
 
 
 10.6.1
 
 Revised Summary of Standard Compensatory Arrangement for Non-Employee Directors of the Principal Financial Group, Inc. Board of Directors (18)


 
 
 
 10.6.2
 
 Revised Summary of Standard Compensatory Arrangement for Non-Employee Directors, effective March 28, 2009 (19)


 
 
 
 10.6.3
 
 Revised Summary of Standard Compensatory Arrangement for Non-Employee Directors of the Principal Financial Group, Inc., effective May 17, 2010 (20)


 
 
 
 10.6.4
 
 Revised Summary of Standard Compensatory Arrangement for Non-Employee Directors of the Principal Financial Group, Inc., effective January 1, 2012 (28)


 
 
 
 10.7
 
 Principal Financial Group, Inc. Directors Stock Plan (1)


 
 
 
 10.7.1
 
 Principal Financial Group, Inc. 2005 Directors Stock Plan (14)


 
 
 
 10.8
 
 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Principal Financial Group, Inc. (21)


 
 
 
 10.9
 
 Principal Select Savings Excess Plan, restated as of January 1, 2004 (22)


 
 
 
 10.9.1
 
 Amendment No. 1 to Principal Select Savings Excess Plan (21)


 
 
 
 10.10
 
 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Employees, restated as of January 1, 2003 (22)


 
 
 
 10.10.1
 
 Amendment No. 1 to the Principal Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Employees (21)


 
 
 
 10.11
 
 Form of Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Life Insurance Company Change-of-Control Employment Agreement (Tier One Executives), dated as of February 28, 2006, by and among Principal Financial Group, Inc.,
Principal Financial Services, Inc., Principal Life Insurance Company and an Executive. (23)


 
 
 
 10.11.1
 
 Form of Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Life Insurance Company Change-of-Control Employment Agreement (Tier One Executives) (24)


 
 
 
 10.11.2
 
 Form of Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Life Insurance Company Change of Control Employment Agreement (Tier One Executives), effective December 31, 2010 (20)


 
 
 
 10.12
 
 Form of Principal Financial Group, Inc. Indemnification Agreement (24)




203



 
Table of Contents














 
 
Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
 
 
 10.13
 
 Compensatory Arrangement, dated as of March 14, 2002, between Principal Life Insurance Company and James P. McCaughan. (25)


 
 
 
 10.14
 
 Fiscal Agency Agreement, dated as of August 25, 1999, among Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty Limited, Principal Financial Services, Inc. and U.S. Bank Trust National Association (1)



 
 
 
 10.15
 
 Employment Agreement dated as of June 1, 2006, by and between Principal Financial Group, Inc., Principal Financial Services, Inc., Principal Life Insurance Company, and Larry D. Zimpleman. (4)


 
 
 
 10.15.1
 
 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of May 1, 2008, by and between Principal Financial Group, Inc., Principal Financial Services, Inc., Principal Life Insurance Company and Larry D.
Zimpleman (26)


 
 
 
 10.15.2
 
 Letter dated March 16, 2009 amending the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of May 1, 2008 by and between Principal Financial Group, Inc., Principal Financial Services, Inc., Principal Life
Insurance Company and Larry D. Zimpleman (19)


 
 
 
 10.15.3
 
 Letter dated December 1, 2009 amending the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of May 1, 2008 by and between Principal Financial Group, Inc., Principal Financial Services, Inc., Principal Life
Insurance Company and Larry D. Zimpleman (27)


 
 
 
 10.16
 
 The Principal Severance Plan for Senior Executives, restated effective January 1, 2009 (19)


 
 
 
 12
 
 Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratio (28)


 
 
 
 21
 
 Principal Financial Group, Inc. Member Companies as of December 31, 2011 (28)


 
 
 
 23
 
 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (28)


 
 
 
 31.1
 
 Certification of Larry D. Zimpleman (28)


 
 
 
 31.2
 
 Certification of Terrance J. Lillis (28)


 
 
 
 32.1
 
 Certification Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code — Larry D. Zimpleman (28)


 
 
 
 32.2
 
 Certification Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code — Terrance J. Lillis (28)


 
 
 
 101
 
 The following materials from Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (v) the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, (vi) Schedule I — Summary of Investments — Other Than Investments in Related Parties, (vii) Schedule II — Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Only),
 (viii) Schedule III — Supplementary Information and (ix) Schedule IV — Reinsurance.








(1)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended
(Commission File No. 333-62558).
(2)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2004 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(3)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2006 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(4)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2006 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(5)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 17,
2005 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(6)Incorporated
herein by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
February 27, 2009 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(7)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 17,
2006 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(8)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 6,
2006 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(9)Incorporated
herein by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
May 21, 2009 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(10)Incorporated
by reference to the exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(11)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(12)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2003 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(13)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 7,
2005 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(14)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2005 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(15)Incorporated
by reference to Appendix A of Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s 2010 Definitive Proxy Statement on Form DEF14A, filed on
April 6, 2010 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(16)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2003 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(17)Incorporated
by reference to the written description of such arrangement included in Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 28, 2006 (Commission File 1-16725). 

204



 
Table of Contents


(18)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2008 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(19)Incorporated
by reference to the Principal Financial Group, Inc. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2009 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(20)Incorporated
herein by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2010 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(21)Incorporated
by reference to the exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2005 (Commission File 1-16725).
(22)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2004 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(23)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2006 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(24)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 2,
2008 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(25)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2002 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(26)Incorporated
by reference to exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2008 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(27)Incorporated
by reference to the exhibit filed with Principal Financial Group, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009 (Commission File No. 1-16725).
(28)Filed
herewith. 

205










