
10-K
1
d291665d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
FORM 10-K  (MARK ONE)



x
 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011  OR 


¨
 
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM              TO
              COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 001-16707
   Prudential Financial, Inc.  (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its
Charter) 






New Jersey
 
22-3703799

(State or Other Jurisdiction ofIncorporation or Organization)
 
(I.R.S. EmployerIdentification Number)
 751 Broad Street  Newark, New Jersey 07102  (973) 802-6000 
(Address and Telephone Number of Registrant’s Principal Executive Offices) 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: 






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

 Common Stock, Par Value $.01 (including Shareholder Protection Rights)
 
New York Stock Exchange
 SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
Yes x No ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
¨ No x  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of the Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No ¨  Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. x  Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 






Large accelerated filer x
  
Accelerated filer ¨

Non-accelerated filer ¨
  
Smaller reporting company ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes ¨ No x  As of June 30,
2011, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock (par value $0.01) held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $30.91 billion and 486 million shares of the Common Stock were outstanding. As of January 31, 2012,
468 million shares of the registrant’s Common Stock (par value $0.01) were outstanding. As of June 30, 2011, and January 31, 2012, 2 million shares of the registrant’s Class B Stock, for which there is no established
public trading market, were outstanding and held by non-affiliates of the registrant.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 The information required to be furnished pursuant to Part III of this Form 10-K is set forth in, and is hereby
incorporated by reference herein from, the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 8, 2012, to be filed by the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2011.   
 


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 












 
  
 
  
 
  
PageNumber
 

 PART I
  
 Item 1.
  
 Business
  
 
1
  


  
 Item 1A.
  
 Risk Factors
  
 
48
  


  
 Item 1B.
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
70
  


  
 Item 1C.
  
 Executive Officers of the Registrant
  
 
71
  


  
 Item 2.
  
 Properties
  
 
72
  


  
 Item 3.
  
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
73
  


  
 Item 4.
  
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
74
  

 PART II
  
 Item 5.
  
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
74
  


  
 Item 6.
  
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
78
  


  
 Item 7.
  
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
80
  


  
 Item 7A.
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
251
  


  
 Item 8.
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
259
  


  
 Item 9.
  
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
433
  


  
 Item 9A.
  
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
433
  


  
 Item 9B.
  
 Other Information
  
 
433
  

 PART III
  
 Item 10.
  
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
433
  


  
 Item 11.
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
433
  


  
 Item 12.
  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
434
  


  
 Item 13.
  
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
435
  


  
 Item 14.
  
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
435
  

 PART IV
  
 Item 15.
  
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
435
  

 SIGNATURES 
  
 
453
  
   Forward-Looking Statements
 Certain of the statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including but not limited to those in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “expects,”
“believes,” “anticipates,” “includes,” “plans,” “assumes,” “estimates,” “projects,” “intends,” “should,” “will,” “shall” or variations of
such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management’s current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc.
and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance
and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others:
(1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed income, equity, real estate and other financial markets; (2) the availability and cost of additional debt or equity capital or
external financing for our operations; (3) interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates; (4) the degree to which we choose not to hedge risks, or the potential ineffectiveness or insufficiency of hedging or risk
management strategies we do implement, with regard to variable annuity or other product guarantees; (5) any inability to access our credit facilities; (6) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims;
(7) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other
purposes; (8) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired or goodwill; (9) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (10) changes in our financial strength or credit
ratings; (11) statutory reserve requirements associated with term and universal life insurance policies under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX; (12) investment losses, defaults and counterparty non-performance; (13) competition in
our product lines and for personnel; (14) difficulties in marketing and distributing products through current or future distribution channels; (15) changes in tax law; (16) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our
international operations; (17) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (18) regulatory or legislative changes, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act;
(19) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others; (20) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities,
including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (21) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in
catastrophic loss of life; (22) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (23) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in
integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions, including risks associated with the acquisition of certain insurance operations in Japan; (24) interruption in telecommunication, information technology or other operational
systems or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data on such systems; (25) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (26) Prudential Financial, Inc.’s primary
reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions in light of our ratings objectives and/or applicable
regulatory restrictions; and (27) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any
particular forward-looking statement included in this document. See “Risk Factors” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of certain risks relating to our businesses and investment in our securities. 
  i 


Table of Contents
Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Prudential Financial” and the
“Registrant” refer to Prudential Financial, Inc., the ultimate holding company for all of our companies. “Prudential Insurance” refers to The Prudential Insurance Company of America, before and after its demutualization on
December 18, 2001. “Prudential,” the “Company,” “we” and “our” refer to our consolidated operations before and after demutualization.    PART I   


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS   
Overview   
Prudential Financial, Inc., a financial services leader with approximately $901 billion of assets under management as of December 31,
2011, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual
funds and investment management. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through proprietary and third party distribution networks. Our principal executive offices are located in Newark, New Jersey. 
  The businesses of Prudential Financial are separated into the
Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses comprises our U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, and International Insurance
division as well as our Corporate and Other operations. The Closed Block Business comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block described below and certain related assets and liabilities. 
  We maintain diversified investment portfolios in our
insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general liabilities. Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity
securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and other invested assets. As of December 31, 2011, the general account investment portfolio totaled $278.5 billion for the Financial Services Businesses and $66.8 billion for
the Closed Block Business. For additional information on our investment portfolio see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account
Investments—General Account Investments” and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
Prudential Financial has two classes of common stock outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the
performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement and does not trade on any exchange, reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. 
  Demutualization and Separation of the Businesses
   Demutualization 
  On December 18, 2001, our date of demutualization,
Prudential Insurance converted from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. The demutualization was carried out under
Prudential Insurance’s Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 15, 2000, as amended, which we refer to as the Plan of Reorganization. On the date of demutualization, eligible policyholders, as defined in the Plan of Reorganization,
received shares of Prudential Financial’s Common Stock or the right to receive cash or policy credits, which are increases in policy values or increases in other policy benefits, upon the extinguishment of all membership interests in Prudential
Insurance. 
  1 


Table of Contents
On the date of demutualization, Prudential Financial completed an initial public offering of
its Common Stock, as well as the sale of shares of Class B Stock, a separate class of common stock, through a private placement. In addition, on the date of demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial
that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we refer to as the IHC debt. A portion of the IHC debt was insured by a bond insurer. Concurrent with the demutualization, various subsidiaries
of Prudential Insurance were reorganized, becoming direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial.   
The Plan of Reorganization required us to establish and operate a regulatory mechanism known as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is
designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations of holders of participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block for future policy dividends after demutualization by allocating assets that will
be used for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, on these policies. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. The Plan of Reorganization provided that Prudential Insurance may,
with the prior consent of the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking and Insurance, enter into agreements to transfer to a third party all or any part of the risks under the Closed Block policies. The long-term risks associated with the policies in the
Closed Block are 90% reinsured, including 7% by a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. In 2011, we also reinsured 90% of the short-term risks associated with the Closed Block policies to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial.
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information on the Closed Block reinsurance arrangements. 
  Separation of the Businesses 
  The businesses of Prudential Financial are separated into
the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for financial statement purposes. For a discussion of the operating results of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, see “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Financial Services Businesses comprises our U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, and International
Insurance division as well as our Corporate and Other operations. See “—Financial Services Businesses” below for a more detailed discussion of the divisions comprising the Financial Services Businesses. The Closed Block Business
comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block and certain other assets and liabilities, including the IHC debt. See “—Closed Block Business” below for additional discussion of the Closed Block Business. We refer to
the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business collectively as the Businesses.    The following diagram reflects the allocation of Prudential Financial’s consolidated assets and liabilities between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business: 
  


  2 


Table of Contents
There is no legal separation of the two Businesses. The foregoing allocation of assets and
liabilities does not require Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance, any of their subsidiaries or the Closed Block to transfer any specific assets or liabilities to a separate legal entity. Financial results of the Closed Block Business,
including debt service on the IHC debt, will affect Prudential Financial’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. In addition, any net losses of the Closed Block Business, and any dividends or distributions
on, or repurchases of, the Class B Stock, will reduce the assets of Prudential Financial legally available for dividends on the Common Stock. Accordingly, you should read the financial information for the Financial Services Businesses together with
the consolidated financial information of Prudential Financial.    The Common Stock reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Class B Stock reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. However, the market value of the Common Stock
may not reflect solely the performance of the Financial Services Businesses.    In order to separately reflect the financial performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business since the date of demutualization, we have allocated all our assets and
liabilities and earnings between the two Businesses, and we account for them as if they were separate legal entities. All assets and liabilities of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries not included in the Closed Block Business constitute the
assets and liabilities of the Financial Services Businesses. Assets and liabilities allocated to the Closed Block Business are those that we consider appropriate to operate that Business. The Closed Block Business consists principally of:
  


 
•
 
 within Prudential Insurance, the Closed Block Assets, Surplus and Related Assets (see below), deferred policy acquisition costs and other assets in
respect of the policies included in the Closed Block and, with respect to liabilities, the Closed Block Liabilities;   


 
•
 
 within Prudential Holdings, LLC, the principal amount of the IHC debt, related unamortized debt issuance costs and hedging activities, and a guaranteed
investment contract; and   


 
•
 
 within Prudential Financial, dividends received from Prudential Holdings, LLC, and reinvestment proceeds thereof, and other liabilities of Prudential
Financial, in each case attributable to the Closed Block Business.    The Closed Block Assets consist of (1) those assets initially allocated to the Closed Block including fixed maturities, equity securities, commercial loans and other long- and short-term investments;
(2) cash flows from such assets; (3) assets resulting from the reinvestment of such cash flows; (4) cash flows from the Closed Block Policies; and (5) assets resulting from the investment of cash flows from the Closed Block
Policies. The Closed Block Assets include policy loans, accrued interest on any of the foregoing assets and premiums due on the Closed Block Policies. The Closed Block Liabilities are Closed Block Policies and other liabilities of the Closed Block
associated with the Closed Block Assets. The Closed Block Assets and Closed Block Liabilities are supported by additional assets held outside the Closed Block by Prudential Insurance to provide additional capital with respect to the Closed Block
Policies, as well as invested assets held outside the Closed Block that initially represented the difference between the Closed Block Assets and the sum of the Closed Block Liabilities and the interest maintenance reserve. We refer to these
additional assets and invested assets outside the Closed Block collectively as the Surplus and Related Assets. The interest maintenance reserve, recorded only under statutory accounting principles, captures realized capital gains and losses
resulting from changes in the general level of interest rates. These gains and losses are amortized into statutory investment income over the expected remaining lives of the investments sold or impaired. 
  On the date of demutualization, the majority of the net
proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and the IHC debt was allocated to our Financial Services Businesses. Also, on the date of demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC distributed $1.218 billion of the net proceeds of the IHC debt to
Prudential Financial to use for general corporate purposes in the Financial Services Businesses. Prudential Holdings, LLC deposited $437 million of the net proceeds of the IHC debt in a debt service coverage account maintained in the Financial
Services Businesses that, together with reinvested earnings thereon, constitutes a source of payment and security for the IHC debt. The remainder of the net proceeds, $72 million, was used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund a
portion of the bond insurance related to the IHC debt. To the extent we use the debt service coverage account to service payments with respect to the IHC debt or to pay dividends to Prudential Financial for purposes of the Closed Block Business, a
loan from the Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block 
  3 


Table of Contents

Business would be established. Such an inter-business loan would be repaid by the Closed Block Business to the Financial Services Businesses when earnings from the Closed Block Business replenish
funds in the debt service coverage account to a specified level. See Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the IHC debt and the debt service coverage account. 
  We believe that the proceeds from the issuances of the Class
B Stock and IHC debt allocated to the Financial Services Businesses reflected capital in excess of that necessary to support the Closed Block Business and that the Closed Block Business as established has sufficient assets and cash flows to service
the IHC debt. The Closed Block Business was financially leveraged through the issuance of the IHC debt, and dividends on the Class B Stock are subject to prior servicing of the IHC debt. It is expected that any inter-business loan referred to above
will be repaid in full out of the Surplus and Related Assets, but not the Closed Block Assets. Any such loan will be subordinated to the IHC debt.   
The Financial Services Businesses will bear any expenses and liabilities from litigation affecting the Closed Block Policies and, as
discussed below, the consequences of certain potential adverse tax determinations. In connection with the sale of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, we agreed to indemnify the investors in those securities with respect to certain matters, and any cost
of that indemnification would be borne by the Financial Services Businesses.    Within the Closed Block Business, the assets and cash flows attributable to the Closed Block accrue solely to the benefit of the Closed Block policyholders through policyholder dividends after payment of
benefits, expenses and taxes. The Surplus and Related Assets accrue to the benefit of the holders of Class B Stock. The earnings on, and distribution of, the Surplus and Related Assets over time will be the source or measure of payment of the
interest and principal of the IHC debt and of dividends on the Class B Stock. The earnings of the Closed Block are reported as part of the Closed Block Business, although no cash flows or assets of the Closed Block accrue to the benefit of the
holders of Common Stock or Class B Stock. The Closed Block Assets are not available to service interest or principal of the IHC debt or dividends on the Class B Stock. 
  Inter-Business Transfers and Allocation Policies 
  Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors has adopted
certain policies with respect to inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings. Such policies are summarized below. In the future, the Board of Directors may modify, rescind or add to any of these
policies. However, the decision of the Board of Directors to modify, rescind or add to any of these policies is subject to the Board of Directors’ general fiduciary duties. In addition, we have agreed with the investors in the Class B Stock and
the insurer of the IHC debt that, in most instances, the Board of Directors may not change these policies without their consent.   
Inter-Business Transactions and Transfers   
The transactions permitted between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, subject to any required regulatory
approvals and the contractual limitations noted above, include the following:   


 
•
 
 The Closed Block Business may lend to the Financial Services Businesses, and the Financial Services Businesses may lend to the Closed Block Business,
in each case on terms no less favorable to the Closed Block Business than comparable internal loans and only for cash management purposes in the ordinary course of business and on market terms pursuant to our internal short-term cash management
facility.   


 
•
 
 Other transactions between the Closed Block and businesses outside of the Closed Block, including the Financial Services Businesses, are permitted if,
among other things, such transactions benefit the Closed Block, are at fair market value and do not exceed, in any calendar year, a specified formula amount. 
 


 
•
 
 Capital contributions to Prudential Insurance may be for the benefit of either the Financial Services Businesses or the Closed Block Business and
assets of the Financial Services Businesses within Prudential Insurance may be transferred to the Closed Block Business within Prudential Insurance in the form of a loan which is subordinated to all existing obligations of the Closed Block Business
and on market terms. 
  4 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 An inter-business loan from the Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block Business may be established to reflect usage of the net proceeds of
the IHC debt initially deposited in the debt service coverage account, and any reinvested earnings thereon, to pay debt service on the IHC debt or dividends to Prudential Financial for purposes of the Closed Block Business.
  


 
•
 
 In addition to the foregoing, the Financial Services Businesses may lend to the Closed Block Business, on either a subordinated or non-subordinated
basis, on market terms as may be approved by Prudential Financial.   


 
•
 
 The Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business may engage in such other transactions on market terms as may be approved by Prudential
Financial and, if applicable, Prudential Insurance.   


 
•
 
 The Board of Directors has discretion to transfer assets of the Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block, or use such assets for the benefit
of Closed Block policyholders, if it believes such transfer or usage is in the best interests of the Financial Services Businesses, and such transfer or usage may be made without requiring any repayment of the amounts transferred or used or the
payment of any other consideration from the Closed Block Business.   


 
•
 
 Cash payments for administrative purposes from the Closed Block Business to the Financial Services Businesses are based on formulas that initially
approximated the actual expenses incurred by the Financial Services Businesses to provide such services based on insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. Administrative expenses recorded by the Closed Block Business, and the
related income tax effect, are based upon actual expenses incurred under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or U.S. GAAP, utilizing the Company’s methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Any difference in the cash
amount transferred and actual expenses incurred as reported under U.S. GAAP will be recorded, on an after-tax basis at the applicable current rate, as direct adjustments to the respective equity balances of the Closed Block Business and the
Financial Services Businesses, without the issuance of shares of either Business to the other Business. This direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to each class of common stock for earnings per share purposes. Internal investment
expenses recorded and paid by the Closed Block Business, and the related income tax effect, are based upon actual expenses incurred under U.S. GAAP and in accordance with internal arrangements governing recordkeeping, bank fees, accounting and
reporting, asset allocation, investment policy and planning and analysis.    Accounting Policies    Accounting policies relating to the allocation of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses between the two Businesses include: 
 


 
•
 
 All assets, liabilities, equity and earnings are allocated between the two Businesses and accounted for as if the Businesses were separate legal
entities. Assets and liabilities allocated to the Closed Block Business are those that we consider appropriate to operate that Business. All remaining assets and liabilities of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries constitute the assets and
liabilities of the Financial Services Businesses.   


 
•
 
 For financial reporting purposes, revenues; administrative, overhead and investment expenses; taxes other than federal income taxes; and certain
commissions and commission-related expenses associated with the Closed Block Business are allocated between the Closed Block Business and the Financial Services Businesses in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Interest expense and routine maintenance and
administrative costs generated by the IHC debt are considered directly attributable to the Closed Block Business and are therefore allocated to the Closed Block Business, except as indicated below. 
 


 
•
 
 Any transfers of funds between the Closed Block Business and the Financial Services Businesses will typically be accounted for as either reimbursement
of expense, investment income, return of principal or a subordinated loan, except as described under “—Inter-Business Transactions and Transfers” above.   


 
•
 
 The Financial Services Businesses will bear any expenses and liabilities from litigation affecting the Closed Block Policies and the consequences of
certain potential adverse tax determinations noted below. In connection with the sale of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, we agreed to indemnify the investors with respect to certain matters, and any such indemnification would be borne by the
Financial Services Businesses. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Tax Allocation and Tax Treatment 
  The Closed Block Business within each legal entity is
treated as if it were a consolidated subsidiary of Prudential Financial. Accordingly, if the Closed Block Business has taxable income, it recognizes its share of income tax as if it were a consolidated subsidiary of Prudential Financial. If the
Closed Block Business has losses or credits, it recognizes a current income tax benefit.    If the Closed Block Business within any legal entity has taxable income, it pays its share of income tax in cash to the Financial Services Businesses. If it has losses or credits, it receives its benefit
in cash from the Financial Services Businesses. If the losses or credits cannot be currently utilized in the consolidated federal income tax return of Prudential Financial for the year in which such losses or credits arise, the Closed Block Business
will receive the full benefit in cash, and the Financial Services Businesses will subsequently recover the payment at the time the losses or credits are actually utilized in computing estimated payments or in the consolidated federal income tax
return of Prudential Financial. Certain tax costs and benefits are determined under the Plan of Reorganization with respect to the Closed Block using statutory accounting rules that may give rise to tax costs or tax benefits prior to the time that
those costs or benefits are actually realized for tax purposes. If at any time the Closed Block Business is allocated any such tax cost or a tax benefit under the Plan of Reorganization that is not realized at that same time under the relevant tax
rules but will be realized in the future, the Closed Block Business will pay such tax cost or receive such tax benefit at that time, but it will be paid to or paid by the Financial Services Businesses. When such tax cost or tax benefit is
subsequently realized under the relevant tax rules, the tax cost or tax benefit will be allocated to the Financial Services Businesses.   
The foregoing principles are applied so as to prevent any item of income, deduction, gain, loss, credit, tax cost or tax benefit from
being taken into account more than once by the Closed Block Business or the Financial Services Businesses. For this purpose, items determined under the Plan of Reorganization with respect to any period prior to the date of demutualization were taken
into account, with any such pre-demutualization tax attributes relating to the Closed Block being attributed to the Closed Block Business and all other pre-demutualization tax attributes being attributed to the Financial Services Businesses. The
Closed Block Business will also pay or receive its appropriate share of tax or interest resulting from adjustments attributable to the settlement of tax controversies or the filing of amended tax returns to the extent that the tax or interest
relates to controversies or amended returns arising with respect to the Closed Block Business and attributable to tax periods after the date of demutualization, except to the extent that the tax is directly attributable to the characterization of
the IHC debt for tax purposes, in which case the tax will be borne by the Financial Services Businesses. In particular, if a change of tax law after the date of demutualization, including any change in the interpretation of any tax law, results in
the recharacterization of all or part of the IHC debt for tax purposes or a significant reduction in the income tax benefit associated with the interest expense on all or part of the IHC debt, the Financial Services Businesses will continue to pay
the foregone income tax benefit to the Closed Block Business until the IHC debt has been repaid or Prudential Holdings, LLC has been released from its obligations to the bond insurer and under the IHC debt as if such recharacterization or reduction
of actual benefit had not occurred.    Internal
Short-Term Cash Management Facilities    The
Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business participate in separate internal short-term cash management facilities, pursuant to which they invest cash from securities lending and repurchase activities as well as certain trading and
operating activities. The net funds invested in the facilities are generally held in investments that are short-term, including mortgage- and asset-backed securities. Each Business holds discrete ownership of its investments in separate facilities
without affecting or being affected by the level of participation of the other Business.    Financial Services Businesses    The Financial Services Businesses are comprised of three divisions, containing six segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division is
comprised of the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division is comprised of the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance division is
comprised of the International Insurance segment. 
  6 


Table of Contents
See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and
total assets by segment of the Financial Services Businesses.    U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division   
The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division conducts its business through the Individual Annuities, Retirement and
Asset Management segments.    Individual Annuities
   Our Individual Annuities segment
manufactures and distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to the U.S. mass affluent market. In general, we consider households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be mass affluent in the U.S.
market. Our focus on innovative product design coupled with our risk management strategies, as discussed below, has contributed to growth in our business in recent years and a reduced risk profile. Our annuity products are distributed through a
diverse group of independent financial planners, wirehouses, banks, and insurance agents, including Prudential Agents and the agency distribution force of The Allstate Corporation, or Allstate. 
  Competition 
  The Individual Annuities segment competes with other
providers of retirement savings and accumulation products, including other large, well-established insurance and financial services companies. We compete in the individual annuities business primarily based on our ability to offer innovative product
features. Our risk management strategy allows us to offer these features and helps to hedge or limit our exposure to certain of the related risks, utilizing a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element, also
referred to as an asset transfer feature, and externally purchased hedging instruments. The automatic rebalancing element, included in the design of certain optional living benefits, transfers assets between certain variable investments selected by
the annuity contractholder and investments that are expected to be more stable (e.g., a separate account bond portfolio or fixed-rate account), according to a static mathematical formula as discussed in more detail below. By transferring assets to
the more stable investment, the automatic rebalancing element helps to reduce our risk associated with the optional living benefit.   
In recent years, we benefited from the impact of market disruptions on some of our competitors, certain of which either exited the
variable annuity marketplace or implemented product modifications to increase pricing and scale back product features. However, in 2011 we implemented modifications to scale back benefits and increase pricing for certain product features, while
certain of our competitors became more aggressive in product design and pricing. We believe our current product offerings remain competitively positioned and that our differentiated risk management strategies will continue to provide us with an
attractive risk and profitability profile, as all currently-offered optional living benefit features include the automatic rebalancing element and most sales include a lifetime income withdrawal feature utilizing a notional amount based on a highest
daily contract value plus a minimum return, credited for a period of time, as described below. Our automatic rebalancing element occurs at the contractholder level, rather than at the fund level, which we believe enhances our risk management
capabilities. In addition to our product features, we also compete based on brand recognition, the breadth of our distribution platform and our customer service capabilities. 
  Products 
  We offer variable annuities that provide our customers with
tax-deferred asset accumulation together with a base death benefit and a suite of optional guaranteed death and living benefits. The benefit features contractually guarantee the contractholder a return of no less than (1) total deposits made to
the contract less any partial withdrawals (“return of net deposits”), (2) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (“minimum return”), and/or (3) the highest contract value
on a specified date minus any withdrawals (“contract value”). These guarantees may include benefits that are payable in the event of death, annuitization or at specified dates during the accumulation period and withdrawal and income
benefits payable 
  7 


Table of Contents

during specified periods. Our latest optional living benefits guarantee, among other features, the ability to make withdrawals based on the highest daily contract value plus a minimum return,
credited for a period of time. This highest daily guaranteed contract value is a notional amount that forms the basis for determination of periodic withdrawals for the life of the contractholder, and cannot be accessed as a lump-sum surrender value.
   Our variable annuity investment options provide
our customers with the opportunity to invest in proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds, frequently under asset allocation programs, and fixed-rate accounts. The investments made by customers in the proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds
generally represent separate account interests that provide a return linked to an underlying investment portfolio. The general account investments made in the fixed-rate accounts are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain
minimums. We also offer fixed annuities that provide a guarantee of principal and interest credited at rates we determine, subject to certain contractual minimums. Certain investments made in the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities and
certain fixed annuities impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity. Based on the contractual terms, the market value adjustment can be positive, resulting in an additional amount for the contractholder, or
negative, resulting in a deduction from the contractholder’s account value or redemption proceeds.   
The primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the
original pricing of these products, including equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility, timing of annuitization and withdrawals, contract lapses and contractholder mortality. The rate of return we realize from our variable annuity
contracts will vary based on the extent of the differences between our actual experience and the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products. As part of our risk management strategy, we hedge or limit our exposure to certain of these
risks primarily through a combination of product design elements, such as the automatic rebalancing element, and externally purchased hedging instruments. Our returns can also vary by contract based on our risk management strategy, including the
impact of any capital markets movements that we may hedge, the impact on that portion of our variable annuity contracts that benefit from the automatic rebalancing element, the impact of risks we have deemed suitable to retain and the impact of
risks that are not able to be hedged.    As of
December 31, 2011, 78% of total variable annuity account values contain a living benefit feature and 82% of variable annuity account values with living benefit features included an automatic rebalancing element in the product design. The
automatic rebalancing element included in the design of certain optional living benefits, transfers assets between certain variable investments selected by the annuity contractholder and, depending on the benefit feature, a fixed-rate account in the
general account or a bond portfolio within the separate accounts. The automatic rebalancing element associated with currently-sold products transfers assets between certain variable investments selected by the annuity contractholder and a designated
bond portfolio within the separate accounts. The transfers are based on the static mathematical formula used with the particular optional benefit which considers a number of factors, including the impact of investment performance on the
contractholder’s total account value. In general, negative investment performance may result in transfers to either a fixed-rate account in the general account or a bond portfolio within the separate accounts, and positive investment
performance may result in transfers back to contractholder-selected variable investments. Overall, the automatic rebalancing element helps to mitigate our exposure to equity market risk and market volatility. Beginning in 2009, our offerings of
optional living benefit features associated with currently-sold variable annuity products all include an automatic rebalancing element, and in 2009 we discontinued any new sales of optional living benefit features without an automatic rebalancing
element. Other product design elements we utilize for certain products to manage these risks include asset allocation restrictions and minimum issuance age requirements. For information regarding the account values and net amount at risk associated
with contracts which include the automatic rebalancing element, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities—Variable Annuity Net Amount at Risk.”   
As mentioned above, in addition to our automatic rebalancing element, we also manage certain risks associated with our variable annuity
products through our hedging programs. In our living benefit hedging program, we purchase interest rate swaps, swaptions, floors and caps as well as equity options and futures to hedge certain optional living benefit features accounted for as
embedded derivatives against changes in certain capital market assumptions such as interest rates, equity markets and market volatility. Historically, our hedging 
  8 


Table of Contents

strategy sought to generally match certain capital market sensitivities of the embedded derivative liability as defined by U.S. GAAP, excluding the impact of the market-perceived risk of our own
non-performance, with capital market derivatives and options. In the third quarter of 2010, we revised our hedging strategy as, in the low interest rate environment, we do not believe the U.S. GAAP value of the embedded derivative liability to be an
appropriate measure for determining the hedge target. Our hedge target continues to be grounded in a U.S. GAAP/capital markets valuation framework but incorporates two modifications to the U.S. GAAP valuation assumptions. We add a credit spread to
the U.S. GAAP risk-free rate of return assumption used to estimate future growth of bond investments in the customer separate account funds to account for the fact that the underlying customer separate account funds which support these living
benefits are invested in assets that contain risk. We also adjust our volatility assumption to remove certain risk margins embedded in the valuation technique used to fair value the embedded derivative liability under U.S. GAAP, as we believe the
increase in the liability driven by these margins is temporary and does not reflect the economic value of the liability. We also evaluate hedge levels versus our hedge target based on the overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing
capital market conditions and may decide to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. Because this decision is based on the overall capital considerations of the Company as a whole, the impact on results from
temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition is reported within Corporate and Other operations. For information regarding the results of our hedging program, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.” 
  In the second quarter of 2009, we began the expansion of our
hedging program to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including the impact of certain statutory reserve exposures. These capital hedges primarily consisted of
equity-based total return swaps that were designed to partially offset changes in our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain living and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. During the second quarter of
2010, we removed the equity component of our capital hedge within the Individual Annuities segment by terminating the equity-based total return swaps, as part of a new program to more broadly address the equity market exposure of the statutory
capital of the Company as a whole, under stress scenarios. Since the new program incorporates capital implications across a number of businesses, the results of the hedges under that program are reported within Corporate and Other operations.
Additionally, as mentioned above, to the extent we decide to hedge to an amount that differs from our target hedge definition in our living benefit hedge program, those results also are reported through Corporate and Other operations. We continue to
assess the composition of the hedging program on an ongoing basis. For information regarding the results of our capital hedge program, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results
of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—Corporate and Other.”    Marketing and Distribution    Prudential Agents    Our Prudential Agents distribute variable annuities with proprietary and non-proprietary investment options, as well as fixed annuities. For additional information regarding our Prudential Agent force,
see “—U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division—Individual Life.”    Third Party Distribution    Our individual annuity products are also offered through a variety of third party channels, including independent brokers, wirehouses, banks, and Allstate’s proprietary distribution force. Our
distribution efforts are supported by a network of 317 internal and external wholesalers as of December 31, 2011.   
Underwriting and Pricing   
We earn asset management and other fees determined as a percentage of the average assets of the proprietary mutual funds in our variable
annuity products, net of subadvisory expenses. Additionally, we earn mortality and expense fees and other fees for various insurance-related options and features, including optional 
  9 


Table of Contents

guaranteed death and living benefit features, based on the average daily net asset value of the annuity separate accounts or the amount of guaranteed value under the optional living benefit, as
applicable. We also receive administrative service fees from many of the proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds.   
We price our variable annuities, including optional guaranteed death and living benefits, based on an evaluation of the risks assumed and
considering applicable hedging costs. Our pricing is also influenced by competition, and by assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, including persistency, and benefit utilization and withdrawal rates for contracts with living benefit features,
as well as other assumptions. Significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. To encourage persistency, most of our variable and fixed annuities have
surrender or withdrawal charges for a specified number of years. In addition, the living benefit features of our variable annuity products encourage persistency because the potential value of the living benefit is fully realized only if the contract
persists.    We price our fixed annuities as well as
the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities based on assumptions as to investment returns, expenses, competition and persistency. We seek to maintain a spread between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest we credit
on our fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities. For assets transferred to a fixed-rate account in the general account pursuant to the automatic rebalancing element discussed above, we earn a spread for the difference
between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest credited, similar to our fixed annuities.   
Reserves   
We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future
obligations for our in force annuity contracts, including the death benefit and living benefit guarantee features associated with some of these contracts. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield,
persistency, expenses, withdrawal rates and mortality rates. Certain of the living benefit guarantee features on variable annuity contracts are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried at fair value. The fair values of these benefit
features are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature, and are based on management’s expectation of how a
market participant would value these embedded derivative liabilities. For variable and fixed annuity contracts, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premium payments plus credited interest
and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, and all applicable mortality and expense charges.    Retirement    Our Retirement segment, which we refer to in the marketplace as Prudential Retirement, provides retirement investment and income products and services to retirement plan sponsors in the public, private,
and not-for-profit sectors. Our full service business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, tailored participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investments. We
service defined contribution, defined benefit and non-qualified plans. For clients with combinations of defined contribution, defined benefit and non-qualified plans, we offer integrated recordkeeping services. For participants leaving our
clients’ plans, we provide a broad range of rollover products through our broker-dealer, Prudential Investment Management Services LLC, our bank, Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB (“PB&T”), and certain of our insurance
companies. In 2012, PB&T intends to limit its operations to trust services. This will allow Prudential Financial to deregister as a savings and loan holding company prior to the effectiveness of the “Volcker Rule” provision of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act on July 21, 2012. For more information on the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, see “—Regulation—Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act.”    Our institutional
investment products business offers investment-only stable value products, guaranteed investment contracts, or GICs, funding agreements, institutional and retail notes, structured settlement annuities, and group annuities, for defined contribution
plans, defined benefit plans, non-qualified plans, and individuals. Results of our institutional investment products business include proprietary spread lending activities where we borrow on a secured or unsecured basis to support investments on
which we earn a spread between the asset yield 
  10 


Table of Contents

and liability cost. We also offer products that provide pension risk transfer solutions, as pension plan sponsors seek to manage their exposure to risk. This is an emerging market that we
recently entered and believe we are well-positioned to provide innovative solutions to pension plan sponsors.   
In recent years we have completed two acquisitions which have increased our scale, expanded our sales and distribution capabilities and
broadened our array of product and service offerings in our full service business.    Union Bank of California’s Retirement Business   
On December 31, 2007, we acquired a portion of the retirement business of Union Bank of California, N.A. for $103 million of cash
consideration. This acquisition increased the scale of our product and service offerings and expanded our sales and distribution capabilities on the west coast of the U.S. The integration of this business was completed in 2008. 
  MullinTBG 
  On October 10, 2008, we acquired MullinTBG Insurance
Agency Services, LLC and related entities, or MullinTBG, a provider of executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, including administration of non-qualified executive benefit plans. This acquisition broadened our array of product
offerings, expanded our sales and distribution capabilities and enhanced our position as a single source servicer of both qualified and non-qualified retirement and deferred compensation plans. 
  Competition 
  The Retirement segment competes with other large,
well-established insurance companies, asset managers, recordkeepers and diversified financial institutions. In our full service business, we compete primarily based on pricing, the breadth of our service and investment offerings, investment
performance, and our ability to offer product features to meet the retirement income needs of our clients. We have seen a trend towards unbundling of the purchase decision related to the recordkeeping and investment offerings, where the variety and
flexibility of available funds and their performance are key selection criteria to plan sponsors and intermediaries. Additionally, changes in the regulatory environment have driven more transparent fee disclosures, which have heightened pricing
pressures and may accelerate the trend toward unbundling of services. In recent years, there has been consolidation among industry providers seeking to increase scale, improve cost efficiencies, and enter new market segments. However, the market
remains competitive with few dominant players. Despite the competitive landscape, we have seen case turnover slowing in our mid to large case target markets.   
In our institutional investment products business, we compete primarily based on our pricing and structuring capabilities, which are
supported by the financial strength ratings of our U.S. insurance companies. Sales of institutional investment products are affected by competitive factors such as investment performance, company credit and financial strength ratings, product
design, marketplace visibility, distribution capabilities, fees, crediting rates, and customer service. In recent years, market disruptions and rating agency downgrades have caused some of our competitors to withdraw from the institutional market. A
continuing lack of supply to the stable value wrap market has created a significant growth opportunity, which has resulted in a material increase in this business activity. 
  Products and Services 
  Full Service 
  Our full service business offers plan sponsors and their
participants a broad range of products and services to assist in the delivery and administration of defined contribution, defined benefit, and non-qualified plans, including recordkeeping and administrative services, comprehensive investment
offerings and consulting services to assist plan sponsors in managing fiduciary obligations. As part of our investment products, we offer a variety of general and separate account stable value products and other fee-based separate accounts, as well
as retail mutual funds and institutional funds advised by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers. In addition, certain products that are designed for the benefit of participants are marketed and sold on an

  11 


Table of Contents

investment-only basis through our full service distribution channels. Revenue is generated from asset-based fees, as well as recordkeeping and other advisory fees. For certain stable value
products discussed below, profits result from the spread between the rate of return on investments we earn and the interest rates we credit, less expenses. In connection with non-qualified retirement and deferred compensation plans, we earn
recordkeeping fees and commissions on products sold to finance the sponsor’s plan liability. Prudential Financial’s asset management units earn fees from managing assets supporting retirement products, including assets within the general
account and those in separate accounts if selected by our clients as the asset manager.    Our full service general account and separate account stable value products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time and to repay account balances or market
value upon contract termination. These stable value products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual rate resets giving effect to previous investment experience. We earn administrative fees for providing recordkeeping
and other administrative services for these products. In addition, we earn profits from partially participating products from the spread between the rate of return we earn on the investments and the interest rates we credit, less expenses. The
amount of profit we earn is impacted by the levels of interest rates, the pace and extent of changes in interest rates, competitor pricing and the minimum guaranteed crediting rates on these products. 
  We also offer fee-based separate account products, through
which customer funds are held in a separate account, retail mutual funds, institutional funds, or a client-owned trust. These products generally pass all of the investment results to the customer. In certain cases, these contracts are subject to a
minimum interest rate guarantee backed by the general account. Additionally, we offer guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts, and hedge certain of the related risks utilizing externally purchased
hedging instruments.    Our full service fee-based
advisory offerings are supported by participant communications and education programs, and a broad range of plan consulting services, including non-discrimination testing, plan document services, signature-ready documents for required filings, and
full actuarial support for defined benefit plans. Additional services include non-qualified deferred compensation plan administration, including executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, investment advisory services, and merger and
acquisition support.    We also offer a broad range
of rollover solutions, including individual retirement accounts, mutual funds, and guaranteed income products. Our rollover products and services are marketed to participants who terminate or retire from organizations that are clients of our
retirement plan recordkeeping services. As noted above, in 2012, PB&T intends to limit its product offerings to trust services.   
Institutional Investment Products   
Our institutional investment products business primarily offers products to the stable value and payout annuity markets. In addition to
the sources of earnings discussed below, Prudential Financial’s asset management units earn fees from managing assets supporting retirement products, including assets within the general account and those in separate accounts if selected by our
clients as the asset manager.    Stable Value
Markets.    Our stable value markets area manufactures investment-only products for use in retail and institutional capital markets and qualified plan markets. Our primary stable value product offerings are investment-only
wraps through which customers’ funds are held in a client-owned trust. These are participating contracts for which we pass investment results through to the customer, subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee backed by the general account,
and earn fees for providing this guarantee. For contracts currently in force, the minimum interest rate is floored at zero. The fees we earn for providing this guarantee may be reset as defined by the underlying contracts. Contractholders are
provided with flexible fund investment alternatives, and assets may be managed by Prudential Financial’s asset management unit or third party asset managers. 
  We also offer investment-only general account products in the
form of GICs, funding agreements, retail notes and institutional notes. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate and to repay principal at maturity or following contract termination. Because these obligations are
backed by our general account, we bear the investment and asset/liability management risk associated with these contracts. Generally, 
  12 


Table of Contents

profits from our general account products result from the spread between the rate of return we earn on the investments and the interest rates we credit, less expenses. The credited interest rates
we offer and the volume of issuance are impacted by many factors, including the financial strength ratings of our U.S. insurance companies, overall market conditions, and other competitive factors. Due to current economic conditions, recent maturing
contracts have outpaced new issuances.    Payout
Annuity Markets.    Our payout annuity markets area offers traditional general and separate account products designed to provide a predictable source of monthly income, generally for the life of the participant, such as
structured settlements, voluntary income products and close-out annuities, which fulfill the payment guarantee needs of the personal injury lawsuit settlement market, the distribution needs of defined contribution participants and the payment
obligations of defined benefit plans, respectively. With our general account products, the obligation to make annuity payments to our annuitants is backed by our general account assets, and we bear all of the investment, mortality, retirement,
asset/liability management, and expense risk associated with these contracts. Our profits from structured settlements, voluntary income products and close-out annuities result from the emerging experience related to investment returns, timing of
mortality, timing of retirement, and the level of expenses being more or less favorable than assumed in the original pricing. The volume of issuance of these products is impacted by many factors, including the financial strength ratings of our U.S.
insurance companies.    We also provide both
participating and non-participating separate account annuity contracts. Our participating separate account annuity contracts are fee-based products that cover payments to retirees to be made by defined benefit plans. These contracts permit a plan
sponsor to retain the risks and rewards of investment and actuarial results while receiving a general account guarantee for all annuity payments covered by the contract. Our non-participating separate account annuity contracts provide pension
benefit guarantees to defined benefit plan participants, and have economic features similar to our general account annuity contracts, discussed above, but offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. 
  We issue close-out annuities to defined benefit pension
plans. In 2011, we expanded our pension risk transfer product offerings with the introduction of portfolio-protected products and a longevity reinsurance product. Our portfolio-protected products are non-participating separate account group annuity
contracts in which we assume from plan sponsors all of the investment and actuarial risk associated with a group of specified participants within a plan. These products have economic features similar to our general account annuity contracts,
discussed above, but offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. Our longevity reinsurance product is a reinsurance contract from which we earn a fee for assuming the longevity risk of pension plans that have been insured by
third-parties.    During 2011, we issued several
close-out annuities, including portfolio-protected products, to smaller U.S. plans. We believe that larger U.S. pension plans are actively exploring risk transfer transactions, in part because of the increasingly stringent funding requirements
imposed by the Pension Protection Act of 2006. If larger U.S. plans decide to purchase our pension risk transfer products, the size and scale of such risk transfers may significantly expand the size of our existing payout annuity business.
   Marketing and Distribution 
  We distribute our products through a variety of channels. In
our full service business, our dedicated sales and support teams manage our distribution efforts in offices across the country. We sell our products and services through third-party financial advisors, brokers, and benefits consultants and, to a
lesser extent, directly to plan sponsors. We market our rollover IRA products and services to plan participants through a centralized service team.   
In our stable value markets area within our institutional investment products business, we distribute traditional GICs and investment-only
stable value wraps to plan sponsors and stable value fund managers through our direct sales force and through intermediaries. Also within our institutional investment products business, our capital markets group manages a global Funding Agreement
Notes Issuance Program, or FANIP, pursuant to which a statutory trust issues medium-term notes secured by funding agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance. The medium-term notes are sold to institutional investors through
intermediaries under Rule 144A and 
  13 


Table of Contents

Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”). In addition, a portion of Prudential Financial’s SEC-registered medium-term notes program is allocated
for sales to retail investors. The proceeds from the sale of the retail notes may be used by Prudential Financial to purchase funding agreements from Prudential Insurance. Proceeds from the retail notes may also be used for general corporate
purposes. The capital markets group also distributes funding agreements to institutional investors through our direct sales force and through intermediaries. In February 2009, Prudential Insurance also began issuing funding agreements directly to
the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.    In our
payout annuity markets area within our institutional investment products business, structured settlements are distributed through structured settlement specialists. Voluntary income products are distributed through the defined contribution portion
of our full service business, directly to plan sponsors, or as part of annuity shopping services. Close-out annuities and participating separate account annuity products are typically distributed through actuarial consultants and third-party
brokers.    Underwriting and Pricing 
  We set our rates for our stable value products within our
full service and institutional investment products businesses using pricing models that consider the investment environment and our risk, expense and profitability assumptions. In addition, for products within our payout annuity markets area, our
models also use assumptions for mortality and early retirement risks. These assumptions may be less predictable in emerging markets, such as the longevity reinsurance market, and significant deviations in actual experience from pricing assumptions
could affect the profitability of these products.   
Upon sale of certain payout annuity and capital market products within the institutional investment products business, we adjust the
duration of our asset portfolio and lock in the prevailing interest rates. Management continuously monitors cash flow experience and works closely with our Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups to review performance and ensure
compliance with our investment policies. We seek to mitigate interest rate risks, including those associated with the current low interest rate environment, with thorough underwriting, pricing and active asset/liability matching portfolio
management.    For our investment-only stable value
wrap product, our pricing risk is mitigated by the fact that the fees we earn for providing a guaranteed rate of return may be reset, as defined by the underlying contracts. Additionally, the contracts allow participants to withdraw funds at book
value, while contractholder withdrawals occur at market value immediately or at book value over time.    Reserves    We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations for our in force annuity products. We base these reserves
on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, expenses, mortality rates, retirement age and other behavioral assumptions, as well as margins for adverse deviation as appropriate. For accumulation products, we establish
liabilities for policyholders’ account balances and additional reserves for investment experience that will accrue to the customer but have not yet been reflected in credited rates.    Asset Management   
The Asset Management segment provides a broad array of investment management and advisory services by means of institutional portfolio
management, mutual funds, asset securitization activity and other structured products, and strategic investments. These products and services are provided to the public and private marketplace, as well as our U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance
division, International Insurance division and Individual Annuities and Retirement segments, as well as the Closed Block Business.   
We earn asset management fees which are typically based upon a percentage of assets under management. In certain asset management fee
arrangements, we also receive performance-based incentive fees when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. Transaction fees 
  14 


Table of Contents

are earned as a percentage of the transaction price associated with the sale or purchase of assets in certain funds, primarily related to real estate. In addition, we earn investment results from
strategic investing and revenues from commercial mortgage origination and servicing.    Competition    The Asset Management segment competes with numerous asset managers and other financial institutions. In the markets for our asset management products, we compete based on a number of factors, including
investment performance, investment philosophy and process, talent, organizational stability and the client relationship. We offer products across multiple asset classes, with specialized investment teams that employ proven approaches designed to add
value in each product area or asset class. The combination of organizational stability and robust institutional and retail businesses has helped attract and retain talent critical to delivering investment results for clients. Our private placement
and commercial mortgage businesses compete based on price, terms, execution and the strength of our relationship with the borrower. The competition will vary depending on the product or service being offered. 
  Products and Services 
  In our asset management areas, we offer the following
products and services:    Public Fixed Income
Asset Management    Our public fixed income
organization manages fixed income portfolios for U.S. and international, institutional and retail clients, as well as for our general account. Our products include traditional broad market fixed income strategies and single-sector strategies. We
manage traditional asset-liability strategies, as well as customized asset-liability strategies. We also manage hedge strategies, as well as collateralized loan obligations. We also serve as a non-custodial securities lending agent. 
  Portfolios are managed by seasoned portfolio managers
across six sector specialist teams: Corporate, Leveraged Finance, Emerging Markets, Global Rates and Securitized Products, Municipals and Money Markets. A separate team is dedicated to securities lending activities. All strategies are managed using
a research-based approach, supported by significant credit research, quantitative research, and risk management organizations.    
Public Equity Asset Management   
Our public equity organization provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset management services to a wide range of clients. We
manage a broad array of publicly-traded equity asset classes using various investment styles. The public equity organization is comprised of two wholly-owned registered investment advisors, Jennison Associates LLC and Quantitative Management
Associates LLC. Jennison Associates uses fundamental, team-based research to manage portfolios for institutional and private clients through separately-managed accounts and commingled vehicles, including mutual funds through subadvisory
relationships. Jennison Associates also manages fixed income portfolios for institutional clients through discretionary accounts and commingled vehicles, including mutual funds through subadvisory relationships. Quantitative Management Associates
manages equity and asset allocation portfolios for institutional and subadvisory clients, including mutual funds, using proprietary quantitative models tailored to meet client objectives.    Private Fixed Income Asset Management    Our private fixed income organization provides asset management services by investing in private placement
investment grade debt, private placement below investment grade debt, and mezzanine debt securities. These investment capabilities are utilized by our general account and institutional clients through direct advisory accounts, insurance company
separate accounts, and private fund structures. A majority of the private placement investments are directly originated by our investment staff. 
  15 


Table of Contents
Commercial Mortgage Origination and Servicing 
  Our commercial mortgage operations provide mortgage
origination, asset management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, and government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration, and Freddie Mac, and beginning in 2011, as a minority interest
joint venture partner and service provider to originate commercial mortgages for future securitization. Through the third quarter of 2008, we had originated shorter-term interim loans for spread lending that are collateralized by assets generally
under renovation or lease up. Due to unfavorable market conditions experienced at that time and the inherent risk of these loans, we suspended the origination of interim loans. Our interim loans are generally paid off through refinancing or the sale
by the borrower of the underlying collateral. These loans are inherently more risky than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. As of December 31, 2011, the principal balance of interim loans totaled $648 million.
   Real Estate Asset Management 
  Our global real estate organization provides asset
management services for single-client and commingled private and public real estate portfolios and manufactures and manages a variety of real estate investment vehicles investing in private and public real estate, primarily for institutional clients
through 22 offices worldwide. Our domestic and international real estate investment vehicles range from fully diversified open-end funds to specialized closed-end funds that invest in specific types of properties or specific geographic regions or
follow other specific investment strategies. Our global real estate organization has an established presence in the U.S., Europe, Asia and Latin America.   
Strategic Investments   
We make strategic investments to support the creation and management of funds offered to third-party investors in private and public real
estate, fixed income and public equities asset classes. The carrying value of these investments was approximately $1.1 billion at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. For more information on these investments, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Asset
Management.” Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co-investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other strategic investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our
general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). We also make loans to, and guarantee obligations of, our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of
the funds.    Mutual Funds and Other Retail
Services    We manufacture, distribute and
service investment management products primarily utilizing proprietary asset management expertise in the U.S. retail market. Our products are designed to be sold primarily by financial professionals including both Prudential Agents and third party
advisors. We offer a family of retail investment products consisting of 41 mutual funds as of December 31, 2011. These products cover a wide array of investment styles and objectives designed to attract and retain assets of individuals with
varying objectives and to accommodate investors’ changing financial needs.    Additionally, we offer banks and other financial services organizations a wealth management platform, which permits such banks and organizations to provide their retail clients with services including
asset allocation, investment manager research and access, clearing, trading services, and performance reporting.    Marketing and Distribution    We provide investment management services for our institutional customers through a proprietary sales force organized by asset management business. Each asset management business has an independent
marketing and client service team working with clients. Institutional asset management services are also offered through the Retirement segment of the U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division. 
  16 


Table of Contents
Most of the retail customer assets under management are invested in our mutual funds and our
variable annuities and variable life insurance products. These assets are gathered by the U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, the International Insurance division, the Individual Annuities segment and third party networks.
Additionally, we work with third party product manufacturers and distributors to include our investment options in their products and platforms.   
We also provide investment management services across a broad array of asset classes for our general account, as described under
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—General Account Investments.” 
  U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
   The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance
division conducts its business through the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments.    Individual Life    Our Individual Life segment manufactures and distributes individual variable life, term life and universal life insurance products primarily to the U.S. mass middle, mass affluent and affluent markets. In
general, we consider households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be mass affluent and households with investable assets in excess of $250,000 to be affluent in the U.S. market. Our life products are distributed
through independent third party distributors and Prudential Agents.    Certain fixed expenses are allocated between the Individual Life segment and the Closed Block Business based upon allocation methodologies consistent with U.S. GAAP reporting. However, as policies in
force within the Closed Block Business continue to mature or terminate, the level of expenses to be allocated to the Closed Block Business will decrease, thereby increasing the expense allocations to the Individual Life segment. 
  Competition 
  The Individual Life segment competes with large,
well-established life insurance companies in a mature market. We compete primarily based on price, service, distribution channel relationships, brand recognition and financial strength. Due to the large number of competitors, price competition is
strong. Factors that could influence our ability to competitively price products while achieving targeted returns include: the cost and availability of financing for statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies,
the availability and timing of and our ability to utilize tax deductions associated with statutory reserves, product designs which impact the amount of statutory reserves and the associated tax deductions, and the level of and pace of changes in
interest rates. The current environment of low interest rates and volatile equity markets has resulted in a greater demand for dividend-paying whole life products across the industry which we no longer offer. 
  Products 
  Our primary insurance products are variable life, term life
and universal life and represent 41%, 49% and 9%, respectively, of our face amount of individual life insurance in force, net of reinsurance at the end of 2011. In recent years, as term life insurance sales have increased and variable life insurance
sales have decreased, term life insurance has become a larger percentage of our net in force.    Across all of our products, we offer a living benefits option that allows insureds who are diagnosed with a terminal illness, or permanently confined to a nursing home, to receive a portion of their
insurance benefit upon diagnosis, in advance of death, to use as needed.    We have a variety of settlement and payment options for the settlement of life insurance claims in addition to lump sum checks, including placing benefits in retained asset accounts, which earn interest
and are subject to withdrawal in whole or in part at any time by the beneficiaries. 
  17 


Table of Contents
Variable Life Insurance    We offer several individual variable life insurance products that provide a return linked to an underlying
investment portfolio selected by the policyholder while providing the policyholder with the flexibility to change both the death benefit and premium payments. The policyholder generally has the option of investing premiums in a fixed-rate option
that is part of our general account and/or investing in separate account investment options consisting of equity and fixed income funds. Funds invested in the fixed-rate option will accrue interest at rates we determine that vary periodically based
on our portfolio rate, subject to certain contractual minimums. In the separate accounts, the policyholder bears the fund performance risk. Each product provides for the deduction of charges and expenses from the customer’s contract fund. We
also offer a variable life product that has the same basic features as our variable universal life product but also allows for a more flexible guarantee against lapse where policyholders can select the guarantee period. In a portion of the affluent
market, we offer a private placement variable universal life product, which also utilizes investment options consisting of equity and fixed income funds. While variable life insurance continues to be an important product, marketplace demand
continues to favor term and universal life insurance.    A significant portion of our Individual Life insurance segment’s profits is associated with our large in force block of variable policies. Profit patterns on these policies are not level and as the
policies age, insureds generally begin paying reduced policy charges. This reduction in policy charges, coupled with net policy count and insurance in force runoff over time, reduces our expected future profits from this product line. Asset
management fees and mortality and expense fees are a key component of variable life product profitability and vary based on the average daily net asset value. Due to policyholder options under some of the variable life contracts, lapses driven by
unfavorable equity market performance may occur on a quarter lag with the market risk during this period being borne by the Company.   
Term Life Insurance   
We offer a variety of term life insurance products that provide coverage for a specified time period. Most term products include a
conversion feature that allows the policyholder to convert the policy into permanent life insurance coverage. We also offer term life insurance that provides for a return of premium if the insured is alive at the end of the level premium period.
There continues to be significant demand for term life insurance protection.    Individual Life’s profits from term insurance are not expected to directly correlate, from a timing perspective, with the increase in term insurance in force. This results from uneven product
profitability patterns, as well as varying costs of our ongoing capital management activities related to a portion of the statutory reserves associated with these products, which may vary with each year of business issued. 
  Universal Life Insurance 
  We offer universal life insurance products that feature
flexible premiums, a choice of guarantees against lapse, and a fixed crediting rate that we determine and that may vary periodically based on portfolio returns, subject to certain contractual minimums. Universal life policies provide for the
deduction of charges and expenses from the policyholders’ contract fund. Individual Life’s profits from universal life insurance are impacted by mortality and expense margins and net interest spread. 
  Marketing and Distribution 
  Third Party Distribution 
  Our individual life products are offered through a variety
of third party channels, including independent brokers, general agencies and producer groups. We focus on sales through independent intermediaries who provide life insurance solutions to protect individuals, families and businesses and support
estate and wealth transfer planning. The life insurance products offered are generally the same as those available through Prudential Agents. Our efforts in third party channels are supported by a network of internal and external wholesalers. We
also offer a simplified-issue term life insurance policy and a single-premium universal life insurance policy available to customers of select banks and other financial institutions. 
  18 


Table of Contents
Prudential Agents    Our Prudential Agents distribute Prudential variable, term and universal life insurance, variable and fixed
annuities, long-term care, and investment and other protection products with proprietary and non-proprietary investment options as well as selected insurance and investment products manufactured by others. The number of Prudential Agents was 2,529,
2,471 and 2,447 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Average agent productivity, based upon average commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents, has increased to $53,708 for 2011 from $52,739 for 2010 primarily
due to higher annuity and mutual fund sales.   
Prudential Agent product sales are primarily to customers in the U.S. mass and mass affluent markets, as well as small business owners.
Other than certain training allowances or salary paid at the beginning of their employment, we pay Prudential Agents on a commission basis for the products they sell. In addition to commissions, Prudential Agents receive employee benefits, including
medical and disability insurance, an employee savings program and qualified retirement plans.    Prior to the sale of our property and casualty insurance operations in 2003, the Individual Life segment had been compensated for property and casualty insurance products sold through Prudential Agents.
Following the sale, Prudential Agents have continued access to non-proprietary property and casualty products under distribution agreements entered into with the purchasers of these businesses, as well as other non-proprietary product providers;
therefore, the Individual Life segment continues to be compensated for sales of these products.    The compensation arrangements for certain non-proprietary property and casualty products provide an opportunity for additional compensation to the Individual Life segment based on multi-year profitability
of the products sold. This additional compensation is not predictable since the multi-year profitability of the products is subject to substantial variability and, additionally, the compensation arrangements are periodically renegotiated which will
affect the amount of additional compensation we are eligible to receive. The largest of these arrangements was revised effective in late 2008 and the profit opportunities were significantly reduced in 2010 and beyond. We do not expect the profit
opportunities from these arrangements to be significant in the future.    As mentioned above, the Individual Life segment distributes products offered by the Annuities, Group Insurance and Asset Management segments and is paid a market rate by these businesses to distribute
their products. These payments may be more or less than the associated distribution costs, and any profit or loss is included in the results of the Individual Life segment. 
  Underwriting and Pricing 
  For our fully underwritten life insurance, underwriters
follow detailed and uniform policies and procedures to assess and quantify the risk of our individual life insurance products. Depending on the age of the applicant and amount of insurance requested, we require the applicant to take a variety of
underwriting tests, such as medical examinations, electrocardiograms, blood tests, urine tests, and gather information such as physician records and investigative reports. We base premiums and policy charges for individual life insurance on expected
death benefits, surrender benefits, expenses and required reserves. We use assumptions for mortality, interest, expenses, policy persistency, and premium payment pattern in pricing policies. Some of our policies are fully guaranteed. Others have
current premiums/charges and interest credits that we can change subject to contractual guarantees.    Our operating results are impacted by changes in interest rates. We routinely update the interest crediting rates that we credit to policyholder accounts on our universal life policies and on the fixed
account of our variable life policies, which are both subject to contractual minimum rates. In resetting these rates, we consider the returns on our portfolios supporting these policies, current interest rates, the competitive environment and our
profit objectives. We seek to maintain a spread between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest we credit on our policyholder accounts. In a prolonged low interest rate environment, this spread may be negatively impacted
to the extent that our ability to reduce crediting rates applied to policyholder accounts is limited due to contractual minimum interest crediting rates. We seek to mitigate interest rate risks, including those associated with the current low
interest rate environment, with active asset/liability matching portfolio 
  19 


Table of Contents

management. For term life products, interest rate assumptions used to calculate reserves are fixed at the policy issue date and subsequent declines in portfolio yields have an immediate impact on
product profitability.    Our operating results are
also impacted by differences between actual separate account fund performance, mortality and persistency experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Our Individual Life segment
employs capital management activities, including the financing of tax deductible statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies, to maximize product returns and enable competitive pricing. Capital management
activities are impacted by insurance regulations and the cost of financing and our ability to access the capital markets. For a more detailed discussion of our capital management activities see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities.”    Reserves    We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations for in force life policies. We base these reserves on
assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, mortality and morbidity rates, as well as margins for adverse deviation. For certain products, such as term and universal life, we are required to hold statutory
reserves in excess of these liabilities. In these circumstances, we engage in capital management activities, including the use of captive reinsurers, to reduce the financial and pricing impact of carrying a portion of these excess statutory
reserves. For variable and interest-sensitive life insurance contracts, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premium payments plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less
withdrawals, expenses and cost of insurance charges. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported.   
Reinsurance   
The Individual Life segment uses reinsurance as a means of managing mortality volatility and risk capacity, which can impact product
profitability. Since 2000, we have reinsured a significant portion of the mortality risk we assume under our newly-sold individual life insurance policies. The maximum exposure we retain is $30 million on a single life and $35 million on a
second-to-die policy. In some instances, lower limits apply. If a third party reinsurer is, for some reason, unable to meet its obligations, we remain liable. On a Company wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor the
concentration of counterparty risk to mitigate this exposure.   
Group Insurance   
Our Group Insurance segment manufactures and distributes a full range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, long-term
care, and group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with employee and membership benefits plans. Group Insurance also sells accidental death and dismemberment,
preferred provider and indemnity dental and other ancillary coverages, and provides plan administrative services in connection with its insurance coverages.   
Competition   
The Group Insurance segment competes with other large, well-established life and health insurance providers in the U.S. markets, and is a
top provider of both group life and disability insurance. The markets in which we compete are mature markets, hence we compete primarily based on price, strong brand recognition, service capabilities, customer relationships, financial stability and
range of product offerings. Due to the large number of competitors, price competition is strong. The majority of our premiums are derived from large corporations, affinity groups or other organizations, such as those with over 10,000 insured
individuals. We have a strong portfolio of products and the capability to offer customized benefit solutions to meet the complex needs of large clients, providing opportunities for continuing stabilized premiums and growth. Employee-pay (voluntary)
coverage has become increasingly important in today’s environment as employers attempt to control costs and shift benefit decisions/funding to employees who continue to value benefits offered at the workplace. Our ability to compete is largely
dependent on higher penetration in the voluntary coverage marketplace, which will be affected by future employment and compensation rates. 
  20 


Table of Contents
Products 
  Group Life Insurance 
  We offer group life insurance products including
employer-pay (basic) and employee-pay (voluntary) coverages. This portfolio of products includes basic and supplemental term life insurance for employees, optional term life insurance for dependents of employees and group universal life insurance.
We also offer group variable universal life insurance, basic and voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance and business travel accident insurance. Many of our employee-pay coverages include a portability feature, allowing employees to
retain their coverage when they change employers or retire. We also offer a living benefits option that allows insureds that are diagnosed with a terminal illness to receive a portion of their life insurance benefit upon diagnosis, in advance of
death, to use as needed.    We have a variety of
settlement and payment options for the settlement of life insurance claims in addition to lump sum checks, including placing benefits in retained asset accounts, which earn interest and are subject to withdrawal in whole or in part at any time by
the beneficiaries.    Group Disability Insurance
   We offer short- and long-term group
disability insurance, which protects against loss of wages due to illness or injury. Short-term disability generally provides a weekly benefit amount (typically 50%-70% of the insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit) for three
to six months, and long-term disability covers the period after short-term disability ends. Long-term disability insureds may receive total or partial disability benefits. Most long-term disability policies begin providing benefits following a 90-
or 180-day waiting period (during which short-term disability may be provided) and generally continue providing benefits until the insured reaches normal retirement age. Long-term disability benefits are paid monthly and are limited to a portion,
generally 50%-70%, of the insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit. Our approach to disability claims management incorporates a focus on early intervention, return-to-work programs and successful rehabilitation of claimants. We
also offer absence management services which assist employers in managing employee absences and workplace productivity including administrative tracking and management for certain employee absence events. The absence management services we provide
can also be integrated with our short- and long-term disability management services.    Other    We offer individual and group long-term care insurance, group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance and preferred provider organization (PPO) and indemnity dental plans. Long-term care
insurance protects the insured from the costs of an adult day care center, a nursing home or similar live-in care situation or a home health or a personal care aide. Group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance are group variable life
insurance contracts typically used by large corporations to fund deferred compensation plans and benefit plans for retired employees. PPO and indemnity dental products, as well as voluntary dental plans, are sold to groups with between 25 and 1,000
employees with no benefit waiting periods.    Marketing and
Distribution    Group Insurance has its own
dedicated sales force that is organized around products and market segments and distributes primarily through employee benefits brokers and consultants. Group Insurance also distributes individual long-term care products through Prudential Agents as
well as third party brokers and agents.    Underwriting and
Pricing    We have developed standard
rating systems for each product line in the Group Insurance segment based on our past experience and relevant industry experience. For our earlier generation long-term care products, experience data was very limited. As the long-term care industry
is maturing, the information available, both our own and industry experience, for use in underwriting has improved.   
We are not obligated to accept any application for a policy or group of policies from any distributor. We follow industry standard
underwriting practices and procedures. If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability. 
  21 


Table of Contents
We determine premiums on some of our policies on a retrospective experience-rated basis, in
which case the policyholder bears some of the risk or receives some of the benefit associated with claim experience fluctuations during the policy period. We base product pricing of group insurance products on the expected pay-out of benefits that
we calculate using assumptions for mortality, morbidity, interest, expenses and persistency, depending upon the specific product features.   
Some policies are not eligible to receive experience-based refunds. The adequacy of our pricing of these policies determines their
profitability during the rate guarantee period. In addition, our profitability is subject to fluctuation period to period, based on the differences between actual mortality and morbidity experience and the assumptions used in pricing our policies.
However, we anticipate that over the rate guarantee period we will achieve mortality and morbidity levels more closely aligned with the assumptions used in pricing our policies. Market demand for multiple year rate guarantees for new policies
increases the risk associated with unanticipated changes in experience patterns as well as deviations from expense and interest rate assumptions. Changes in interest rates affect our operating results by impacting the spread income we earn between
our general account invested assets and the interest we attribute to policyholder liabilities. In a prolonged low interest rate environment, this spread may be negatively impacted to the extent our ability to reduce crediting rates applied to
policyholder liabilities has limitations, such as, minimum interest crediting rate commitments. We seek to mitigate interest rate risks, including those associated with the current low interest rate environment, with thorough underwriting, pricing
and active asset/liability matching portfolio management.   
Reserves   
We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future
obligations. We base these reserves on actuarially-recognized methods using morbidity and mortality tables in general use in the U.S., which we modify to reflect our actual experience when appropriate. Reserves also include claims reported but not
yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. We also establish a liability for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative deposits plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, expenses and cost of
insurance charges, as applicable.    Reinsurance
   The Group Insurance segment uses
reinsurance to limit losses from large exposures, and in response to client requests. To a smaller extent, we also assume risk through reinsurance in certain situations. If a third party reinsurer is, for some reason, unable to meet its obligations,
we remain liable. On a Company wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor concentration of counterparty risk to mitigate this exposure. 
  International Insurance Division 
  The International Insurance division conducts its business
through the International Insurance segment.    International
Insurance    Our International Insurance
segment manufactures and distributes individual life insurance, retirement and related products, including certain health products with fixed benefits. We provide these products to the broad middle income market across Japan through multiple
distribution channels including Life Advisors, who are associated with our Gibraltar Life operations. Our Gibraltar Life operations include our Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Gibraltar Life, which we acquired in April 2001, and the
businesses of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, which we acquired in February 2011 and subsequently merged with Gibraltar Life on January 1, 2012. We also provide similar products to the mass affluent and
affluent markets in Japan, Korea and other countries outside the U.S. through our Life Planner operations. We commenced sales in non-U.S. markets through our Life Planner operations, as follows: Japan, 1988; Taiwan, 1990; Italy, 1990; Korea, 1991;
Brazil, 1998; Argentina, 1999; Poland, 2000; and Mexico, 2006. 
  22 


Table of Contents
For the year ended December 31, 2011, our Life Planner operation in Japan and our
Gibraltar Life operations represented 33% and 56%, respectively, of the net premiums, policy charges and fee income of the International Insurance segment, and in aggregate, represented 55% of the net premiums, policy charges and fee income of the
Financial Services Businesses, translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates. We continue to explore opportunities for a more diverse mix of business including an increased focus on the international retirement market.
   We continue to seek opportunities for expansion
into high-growth markets in targeted countries, such as in China and India. During 2007, we entered into a joint venture in India where we have a 26% interest, the maximum currently allowed by regulation in India. The joint venture received its
insurance license in June 2008 and commenced sales of life insurance products shortly thereafter. In addition, we have an investment in China, through a consortium of investors that holds a minority interest in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co.,
Ltd. In December 2009, China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. listed its shares on the Hong Kong exchange, and through December 2011, the consortium of investors sold approximately 65% of its holdings resulting in pre-tax benefits to Prudential
of $66 million in 2010 and $237 million in 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of our remaining indirect investment in China Pacific Group was $126 million, including an unrealized gain of approximately $99 million, representing
changes in market value of China Pacific Group’s publicly traded shares, which is included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” There are no restrictions on the consortium of investors from selling its remaining
interest in China Pacific Group. For information regarding the Company’s new life insurance joint venture in China, see “—Corporate and Other—Corporate Operations.”    We manage each operation on a stand-alone basis with local management and sales teams, with oversight by senior
executives based in Asia, Latin America and Newark, New Jersey. Each operation has its own marketing, underwriting and claims, investment management, and actuarial functions. In addition, significant portions of the general account investment
portfolios are managed by certain of our international investment subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, by our domestic asset management business. Operations generally invest in local currency securities, typically bonds issued by the local
government or its agencies. In our larger operations, we have more diversified portfolios that also include U.S. dollar-denominated investments in large part to support products issued in U.S. dollars and as part of our foreign exchange hedging
strategy. In addition, our Gibraltar Life operations have Australian dollar-denominated investments that support products issued in that currency.   
Our international investment operations, which are included in the International Insurance segment as part of the Gibraltar Life and Other
operations, manufacture proprietary products and distribute both proprietary and non-proprietary products, tailored to meet client needs. We invest in asset management and distribution businesses in targeted countries, including through investments
in operating joint ventures, to expand our mass affluent customer base outside the U.S. and to increase our global assets under management. On April 6, 2011, the Company entered into a stock and asset purchase agreement to sell all of the
issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company’s subsidiaries that conduct its global commodities business (the “Global Commodities Business”) and certain assets that are primarily used in connection with the Global
Commodities Business. As a result, we have reflected the results of the Global Commodities Business as discontinued operations for all periods presented. This sale was completed on July 1, 2011. In addition, on October 20, 2011, the
Company announced it had entered into an agreement to sell its stake in Afore XXI, S.A. de C.V., a private pension fund manager in Mexico, to Banorte, a major bank based in Mexico. This sale was completed on December 2, 2011. Our remaining
international investment operations primarily consist of our asset management operations in Japan, India and Taiwan, and our operating joint ventures in China, Italy and Brazil which are accounted for under the equity method. 
  Acquisition of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., AIG Edison Life
Insurance Company and Related Entities   
On February 1, 2011, Prudential Financial completed the acquisition from American International Group, Inc., or AIG, of AIG Star Life
Insurance Co., Ltd., or Star, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, or Edison, and certain other AIG subsidiaries (collectively, the “Star and Edison Businesses”) pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 between
Prudential Financial and AIG. The total purchase price was $4,709 million, comprised of $4,213 million in cash and $496 million in assumed third party debt, substantially all of which is expected to be repaid, over time, with excess capital of the
acquired entities. All acquired entities are Japanese corporations and their businesses are in Japan. 
  23 


Table of Contents
The addition of these operations to our existing businesses increases our scale in the
Japanese insurance market and provides complementary distribution opportunities through an increased captive agency force and expanded bank channel distribution, as well as the addition of an established independent agency channel. Star and
Edison’s bank channel distribution is being transferred and integrated with the bank channel operations of Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential Gibraltar. In addition, the Star and Edison companies were
merged into Gibraltar Life on January 1, 2012.   
Acquisition of Yamato Life   
On May 1, 2009, our Gibraltar Life operations acquired Yamato Life, a Japanese life insurance company that had declared bankruptcy in
October 2008. Gibraltar Life served as the reorganization sponsor for Yamato and, under the reorganization agreement, acquired Yamato by contributing $72 million of capital to Yamato. Concurrent with our acquisition, substantially all of
Yamato’s insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These surrender charges were 20% in the first year and decline by 2% each year thereafter. Subsequent
to the acquisition, we renamed the acquired company The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential Gibraltar.   
Competition   
The life insurance markets in Japan and Korea are quite mature and highly penetrated. Private-sector life insurance companies also compete
with life insurance cooperatives and postal insurance entities in these markets. Generally, the cooperatives and postal insurance entities are not subject to the stringent insurance regulations that are effective for private-sector life insurers;
however, their product offerings are more limited. We generally compete based on service provided to the customers more than on price. Our Gibraltar Life operation focuses on quality service to a broader market segment. This is especially true in
the bancassurance market, where we provide quality in-house product expertise. In our operations other than Gibraltar Life and our joint venture in India, we compete by focusing primarily on a limited market using our Life Planner model to offer
high quality service and needs-based protection products. The success of our model in some markets makes us vulnerable to imitation and targeted recruitment of our sales force; thus the loss of highly-skilled and productive Life Planners to
competitors is a significant competitive risk. We direct substantial efforts to recruit and retain our Life Planners by continuously evaluating and adjusting our training and compensation programs, where appropriate, to positively impact
retention.   Products 
  With a diversified product mix supporting the growing demand
for retirement and savings products and continuing demand for protection life insurance products, our international insurance operations offer various traditional whole life, term life, endowment policies (which provide for payment on the earlier of
death or maturity) and retirement income life insurance products that combine an insurance protection element similar to that of term life policies with a retirement income feature. Certain of these products are offered with premiums and benefits
denominated in U.S. dollars. We also offer variable life products in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Poland and interest-sensitive life products in all countries with the exception of Brazil and Mexico. In most of our operations, we also offer certain
health products with fixed benefits, some of which include a high savings element. In 2010, Gibraltar Life introduced a cancer whole life product which appeals to the business market because of its favorable tax treatment. Cancer whole life products
are offered through each of our Japanese entities.   
Generally, our international insurance products are non-participating and denominated in local currency. Where non-local currency products
are offered, both the premiums and benefits are guaranteed in the currency of the product offered. Certain of our operations offer annuity products including variable annuities in Korea. Our fixed annuity products are primarily represented by U.S.
and Australian dollar-denominated fixed annuities in our Gibraltar Life operations. Our Gibraltar Life operations also offer euro and yen-denominated fixed annuity products. These contracts impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is
not held to maturity. The market value adjustment can be positive, resulting in an additional amount for the contractholder, or negative, resulting in a deduction from the contractholder’s account value or redemption proceeds. 
  24 


Table of Contents
Marketing and Distribution    The following table sets forth the number of Life Planners and Life Advisors for the periods indicated.
  
















 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Life Planners:
  



  



  




 Japan
  
 
3,137
  
  
 
3,122
  
  
 
3,094
  

 All other countries
  
 
3,655
  
  
 
3,443
  
  
 
3,515
  

 Life Advisors
  
 
12,791
  
  
 
6,281
  
  
 
6,398
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
19,583
  
  
 
12,846
  
  
 
13,007
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Life Planner Model
   Our Life Planner model is significantly
different from the way traditional industry participants offer life insurance in Japan and in most of the other countries where we do business. It also differs from the way we market through the Life Advisors and other distributional channels of
Gibraltar Life. We believe that our selection standards, training, supervision and compensation package are key to the Life Planner model and have helped our Life Planner operations achieve higher rates of agent retention, agent productivity and
policy persistency than our local competitors. In general, we recruit Life Planners with:   


 
•
 
 university degrees, so that the Life Planner will have the same educational background and outlook as the target customer;
  


 
•
 
 a minimum of two years of sales or sales management experience; 
 


 
•
 
 no prior life insurance sales experience; and 
 


 
•
 
 a pattern of job stability and success.   
The Life Planner’s primary objective is to sell protection-oriented life insurance products on a needs basis to mass affluent and
affluent customers, as well as to small businesses.   
The number of Life Planners increased by 227 from 6,565 as of December 31, 2010 to 6,792 as of December 31, 2011, driven by an
increase of 84 in Brazil due to stronger recruitment, as well as increases of 62 in Korea, 32 in Poland, 31 in Italy and 15 in Japan.   
Life Advisors   
Our Life Advisors are the proprietary distribution force for products offered by Gibraltar Life. Their focus is to provide individual
protection products to the broad middle income market in Japan, particularly through relationships with affinity groups. Our Life Advisor operation is based on a variable compensation plan designed to improve productivity and persistency that is
similar to compensation plans in our Life Planner operations. The number of Life Advisors increased 6,510 in 2011 primarily reflecting the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses.    Bank Distribution Channel 
  In 2006, Gibraltar Life commenced sales, primarily of U.S.
dollar-denominated fixed annuity products, through banks to supplement its core Life Advisor distribution channel. The fixed annuity product offering was expanded in 2009 to include Australian dollar, euro and yen-denominated products. In 2008,
Gibraltar Life began selling protection products, both yen and U.S. dollar-denominated, as a result of the liberalization of banking regulations allowing for the sale of additional insurance products. Sales of products primarily intended to provide
premature death protection comprised a major portion of bank channel sales for 2011 and 2010. During 2011, sales of protection products were highly concentrated in single pay or limited pay contracts which tend to be larger policies and therefore
have higher average premiums per policy. A significant amount of our sales in Japan through our bank channel distribution is derived through a single Japanese mega-bank. More recently, however,

  25 


Table of Contents

certain of our other bank channel relationships are making an increasing contribution to the sales growth. During the latter half of 2011, we signed a distribution relationship with a second
Japanese mega-bank, expanding our distribution to now include two of Japan’s three largest banks. We continue to explore other opportunities to expand our distribution capabilities through the bank distribution channel. 
  Independent Agency Distribution Channel 
  The acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses
transformed our participation in the Independent Agency Channel in Japan. Our focus will be to maintain a diverse mix of independent agency relationships including accounting firms, corporate agencies and independent agencies with a balanced focus
on individual and business markets. We plan to differentiate ourselves by providing quality service to producers in this distribution channel.   
Underwriting and Pricing   
Our International Insurance segment is subject to substantial local regulation that is generally more restrictive for product offerings,
pricing and structure than U.S. insurance regulation. Each International Insurance operation has its own underwriting department that employs variations of U.S. practices in underwriting individual policy risks. In setting underwriting limits, we
also consider local industry standards to prevent adverse selection and to stay abreast of industry trends. In addition, we set underwriting limits together with each operation’s reinsurers. 
  Pricing of our products, particularly individual life
insurance in Japan and Korea, is more regulated than in the U.S. Generally, premiums in each country are different for participating and non-participating products, but within each product type they are generally similar for all companies. Interest
rates guaranteed at issue under our insurance contracts may exceed the rates of return we earn on our investments, and, as a result, we may experience negative spreads between the rate we guarantee and the rate we currently earn on investments. The
profitability on our products from these operations results primarily from margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges. In addition, the profitability of our products is impacted by differences between actual mortality and morbidity
experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. However, we anticipate over the long-term to achieve the aggregate mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions used
in pricing.    Reserves 
  We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined
reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, mortality and morbidity rates, as well as margins
for adverse deviation. For variable and interest-sensitive life products, as well as annuity products, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premiums collected plus interest or investment
results credited less surrenders, and charges for cost of insurance and administration fees.    In some of the markets in which we operate, it is difficult to find appropriate long-duration assets to match the characteristics of our long-duration product liabilities. Due to the long-term nature of
many of the products we sell in Japan, we have historically sought to increase the duration of our Japanese yen investment portfolio by employing various strategies, including investing in longer-term securities or, by entering into long-duration
floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. These strategies better support the characteristics of our long-dated product liabilities, and have resulted in higher portfolio yields. We continue to manage the interest rate risk profile of our businesses in
the context of market conditions and relative opportunities, and will implement these hedging strategies to lengthen the duration of our Japanese investment portfolio as our assessment of market conditions dictates. As we do so, the impact to our
portfolio yields will depend on the interest rate environment at that time.    Reinsurance    International Insurance reinsures portions of its insurance risks, primarily mortality, with both selected third party reinsurers and Prudential Insurance. International Insurance also buys catastrophe
reinsurance that covers multiple deaths from a single occurrence in our Japan, Taiwan and Brazil insurance operations. We also have 
  26 


Table of Contents

coinsurance agreements with Prudential Insurance for the U.S. dollar-denominated business in our Japanese Life Planner insurance operations. If a third party reinsurer is, for some reason, unable
to meet its obligations, we remain liable. On a Company-wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor the concentration of credit risk to mitigate this exposure.    Corporate and Other 
  Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after
allocations to our business segments, and divested businesses except for those that qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. 
  Corporate Operations 
  Corporate operations consist primarily of:
(1) investment returns on capital that is not deployed in any business segments; (2) returns from investments not allocated to business segments, including debt-financed investment portfolios, and certain strategic joint venture
investments, as well as tax credit investments and other tax enhanced investments financed by business segments; (3) capital debt that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company and the related interest expense;
(4) income and expense from qualified pension and other employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments; (5) corporate-level income and expense, after allocations to business segments, including corporate governance,
corporate advertising, philanthropic activities, deferred compensation, and costs related to certain contingencies; (6) certain retained obligations relating to pre-demutualization policyholders whom we had previously agreed to provide
insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life insurance sales practices remediation; (7) results related to our Capital Protection Framework; and (8) the impact of
transactions with other segments.    Corporate
operations include results related to our Capital Protection Framework, which includes, among other things, the following:   


 
•
 
 Our capital hedge program broadly addresses the equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole, under stress scenarios, as
described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries.”
  


 
•
 
 We manage certain risks associated with our variable annuity products through our living benefit hedging program, which is described under
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.” We evaluate hedge levels versus our target given
overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing market conditions and may decide to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. Because this decision is based on the overall capital considerations of
the Company as a whole, the corresponding impact on results is reported within corporate operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital
Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries” for additional discussion.   
We assess the composition of these hedging programs on an ongoing basis, and we may change them from time to time based on our evaluation
of the Company’s risk position or other factors.    During 2011, we received approval from the China Insurance Regulatory Commission to apply for a license to operate a life insurance joint venture in China. The joint venture is expected to commence
operations in the latter half of 2012, subject to regulatory approval. We will have a 50% interest in the joint venture company, the maximum currently allowed by regulation in China. The results of this strategic joint venture investment will be
reflected in corporate operations. 
  27 


Table of Contents
Divested Businesses 
  The following operations are businesses that have been or
will be sold or exited that did not qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. We include the results of these divested businesses in our income from continuing operations, but we exclude these results from
our adjusted operating income. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations—Segment Measures” for an explanation of adjusted operating income.
   Residential Real Estate Brokerage Franchise and Relocation
Services    On
December 6, 2011, we sold our real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services businesses, which was comprised of Prudential Real Estate and Relocation Services, Inc. (“PRERS”) and its subsidiaries, to Brookfield Asset
Management, Inc. (“Brookfield”). We retained ownership of a financing subsidiary of PRERS with debt and equity investments in a limited number of real estate brokerage franchises. Under licensing agreements entered into in connection with
the sale, the real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services business may continue to use our servicemarks, including Prudential®, during a transition period, and the real estate brokerage franchisees may continue to use our servicemarks, including Prudential®, based on the terms of their respective franchise agreements. Also, we agreed to provide certain Brookfield
affiliates with transitional financing for the transferred relocation services that consists of a six month receivables purchase facility of up to $250 million, a six month credit facility of up to $25 million and a three year credit facility of up
to $155 million.    The real estate brokerage group
marketed franchises primarily to existing real estate companies with the franchise agreements granting the franchisee the right to use the Prudential name and real estate service marks in return for royalty payments on gross commissions generated by
the franchisees. The franchises generally were independently owned and operated.    The relocation group offered institutional clients and government agencies a variety of services in connection with the relocation of their employees. These services included: coordination of appraisal;
inspection, purchase and sale of relocating employees’ homes; equity advances to relocating employees; assistance in locating homes at the relocating employee’s destination; household goods moving services; client cost-tracking and a
variety of relocation policy and group move consulting services. Generally the client was responsible for carrying costs and any loss on sale with respect to a relocating employee’s home that was purchased by us. Government clients and certain
corporate clients utilized a fixed price program under which we assumed the benefits and burdens of ownership, including carrying costs and any loss on sale.   
Financial Advisory   
In 2008, we classified our Financial Advisory business as a divested business, reflecting our intention to exit this business. This
business consists of our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture described below, which was sold on December 31, 2009, in addition to expenses relating to obligations and costs we retained in connection with the businesses we
contributed to the joint venture, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters.    On July 1, 2003, we combined our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia Corporation (“Wachovia”) and formed Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC
(“Wachovia Securities”). On December 31, 2008, Wachovia merged with and into Wells Fargo & Company (“Wells Fargo”), which succeeded to Wachovia’s rights and obligations under the joint venture agreements. On
December 31, 2009, we completed the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities, which includes Wells Fargo Advisors, to Wells Fargo. 
  Commercial Mortgage Securitization Operations 
  In 2008, we classified our commercial mortgage
securitization operations as a divested business, reflecting our decision to exit this business. These operations, which involved the origination and purchase of commercial mortgage loans that we in turn would aggregate and sell into commercial
mortgage-backed securitization 
  28 


Table of Contents

transactions, together with related hedging activities, were previously reported within the Asset Management segment. We retained and continue the remainder of our commercial mortgage
origination, servicing and other commercial mortgage related activities, which remain a part of our Asset Management segment.   
Property and Casualty Insurance   
In 2003, we sold our property and casualty insurance companies, which included Prudential Property and Casualty Insurance Company
(“Prupac”) that operated nationally in 48 states outside of New Jersey, and the District of Columbia, to Liberty Mutual Group, or Liberty Mutual. We have agreed not to compete with the buyers. A non-compete agreement is effective until the
termination of our distribution agreement with Liberty Mutual. We have reinsured Liberty Mutual for adverse loss development for specific property and casualty risks that Liberty Mutual did not want to retain. We believe that we have adequately
reserved for our remaining property and casualty obligations under these reinsurance contracts based on the current information available.   
In connection with the sale, Liberty Mutual has the right to sell Prupac back to us. This right became exercisable by Liberty Mutual as of
October 31, 2010. Under the terms of the put right, the business transferring to us would be the business we already reinsure, as described in the preceding paragraph. Any business written after the 2003 sale and prior to a put closing would
also transfer to us but would be fully reinsured by Liberty Mutual.   
Prudential Securities Capital Markets   
In 2000, we announced a restructuring of Prudential Securities’ activities to implement a fundamental shift in its business strategy.
We subsequently exited the lead-managed equity underwriting business for corporate issuers and the institutional fixed income business. As of December 31, 2011 we had remaining assets amounting to $37 million related to Prudential
Securities’ institutional fixed income activities.   
Individual Health and Disability Insurance   
We ceased writing individual disability income policies in 1992, and a year later ceased writing hospital expense and major medical
policies. Most of our individual disability income policies are non-cancelable; however, we reinsured all of these policies as of July 1999. For our hospital expense and major medical policies, the 1997 Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act guarantees renewal. Under certain circumstances, with appropriate approvals from state regulatory authorities, we are permitted to change the premiums charged for these policies if we can demonstrate the premiums have not been
sufficient to pay claims. We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations. 
  Other    We have not actively engaged in the assumed life reinsurance market in the United States since the early 1990s;
however, we remain subject to mortality risk for certain assumed individual life insurance policies under the terms of the reinsurance treaties. In addition, we previously marketed individual life insurance in Canada through Prudential of America
Life Insurance Company, or PALIC. In 2000, we sold our interest in PALIC and remain subject to mortality risk for certain assumed individual life insurance policies sold by PALIC under the terms of the reinsurance treaties. We establish and carry as
liabilities actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits consistent with our methodologies for yearly renewable term life policies, which are less than the net amount at risk. As of December 31, 2011, the net amount at risk was
$68 million.    In addition to the above, we
indemnified the purchaser of PALIC for certain liabilities with respect to claims related to sales practices or market conduct issues arising from operations prior to the sale. 
  We also exited the equity sales, trading and research
operations of the Prudential Equity Group in 2007, and retained certain securities relating to trading exchange memberships of these former operations. These securities were received in 2006 in connection with the commencement of public trading of
stock exchange shares, and were fully disposed of in 2008. 
  29 


Table of Contents
Discontinued Operations    Discontinued operations reflect the results of the following businesses which qualified for “discontinued
operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP:   


 
•
 
 We sold substantially all of the assets and liabilities of our group managed and indemnity healthcare business to Aetna Inc. in 1999.
  


 
•
 
 We discontinued certain branches of our international securities operations in the fourth quarter of 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we
discontinued the remaining branches of our international securities operations.   


 
•
 
 We discontinued the equity sales, trading and research operations of the Prudential Equity Group in the second quarter of 2007.
  


 
•
 
 We discontinued our Mexican asset management operations in the second quarter of 2009 and subsequently sold these operations in the fourth quarter of
2009.   


 
•
 
 We discontinued our Korean asset management operations in the first quarter of 2010 and subsequently sold these operations in the second quarter of
2010.   


 
•
 
 We discontinued our global commodities operations in the second quarter of 2011 and subsequently sold these operations in the third quarter of 2011.
   In addition, direct real estate
investments that are sold or held for sale may require “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.   
Closed Block Business   
In connection with the demutualization, we ceased offering domestic participating individual life insurance and annuity products, under
which policyholders are eligible to receive policyholder dividends reflecting experience. The liabilities for our individual in force participating products were segregated, together with assets that will be used exclusively for the payment of
benefits and policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products, in the Closed Block. We selected the amount of Closed Block Assets that we expect will generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated revenues from the
Closed Block Policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all expenses, taxes, and policyholder benefits and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000, assuming experience underlying
such scales continues. For accounting purposes, we also segregated the Surplus and Related Assets that we needed to hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the policies included within the Closed Block at the time of
demutualization. No policies sold after demutualization will be added to the Closed Block, and its in force business is expected to decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full. We also expect the proportion of our business represented by the
Closed Block to decline as we grow other businesses. The Closed Block forms the principal component of the Closed Block Business. As of December 31, 2011, total attributed equity of the Closed Block Business represented 4% of the Company’s
total attributed equity. For additional discussion of the Closed Block Business, see “—Demutualization and Separation of the Businesses—Separation of the Businesses.”    Our strategy for the Closed Block Business is to maintain the Closed Block as required by our Plan of
Reorganization over the time period of its gradual diminishment as policyholder benefits are paid in full. We are permitted under the Plan of Reorganization, with the prior consent of the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking and Insurance, to enter
into agreements to transfer to a third party all or any part of the risks under the Closed Block policies. The long-term risks associated with the policies in the Closed Block are 90% reinsured, including 7% by a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Prudential Financial. In 2011, we also reinsured 90% of the short-term risks associated with the Closed Block policies to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information on the Closed Block reinsurance arrangements. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on the accounting of these
reinsurance arrangements. 
  30 


Table of Contents
As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, if the performance of the
Closed Block is more or less favorable than we originally assumed in funding, total dividends paid to Closed Block policyholders in the future may be greater or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the
policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed will be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders as part of policyholder dividends, and it will not be available
to shareholders. A policyholder dividend obligation liability is established for these excess cash flows. Each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year
based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and
total assets of the Closed Block Business.   
Intangible and Intellectual Property   
We capture and protect the innovation in our financial services products by applying for federal business method
patents and implementing trade secret controls, as appropriate. We also use numerous federal, state, common law and foreign servicemarks. We believe that the goodwill associated with many of our patents and trade secrets, and the goodwill associated
with many of our servicemarks, particularly “Prudential®,” “Prudential Financial®,” the Prudential logo and our “Rock” symbol, are significant competitive assets in the U.S.
   On April 20, 2004, we entered into a
servicemark and trademark agreement with Prudential plc of the United Kingdom, with whom we have no affiliation, concerning the parties’ respective rights worldwide to use the names “Prudential” and “Pru.” The agreement is
intended to avoid customer confusion in areas where both companies compete. Under the agreement, there are restrictions on our use of the “Prudential” name and mark in a number of countries outside the Americas, including Europe and most
parts of Asia. Where these limitations apply, we combine our “Rock” symbol with alternative word marks. We believe that these limitations do not materially affect our ability to operate or expand internationally. 
  Competition 
  In each of our businesses, we face intense competition from
U.S. and international insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions. Many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of
products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. We compete in our businesses based on a number of factors including brand
recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, risk management capabilities, capital management
capabilities, perceived financial strength, and financial strength and credit ratings. The relative importance of these factors varies across our products, services and the markets we serve.    Adverse market and economic conditions in recent years have resulted, and may continue to result, in changes in
the competitive landscape. For example, the financial distress experienced by certain financial services industry participants as a result of such conditions, including government mandated sales of certain businesses, may lead to additional
favorable acquisition opportunities, although our ability or that of our competitors to pursue such opportunities may be limited due to lower earnings, reserve increases, and an inability to access sufficient sources of financing. Such conditions
have led and may in the future lead to changes by us or our competitors in product offerings, product pricing and business mix that could affect our and their relative sales volumes, market shares and profitability. It is also possible that such
conditions may put U.S. companies with financial operations in non-U.S. locations at a competitive disadvantage relative to domestic companies operating in those locations and may impact sales in those locations. Additionally, the competitive
landscape may be further affected by government sponsored programs in the U.S. and similar governmental actions outside of the U.S. in response to severe dislocations in financial markets. Competitors receiving governmental financing or other
assistance or subsidies, including government guarantees of their obligations, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. Changes in laws and regulations in response to adverse market and economic

  31 


Table of Contents

conditions may result in us being classified differently than competitors for purposes of capital and other requirements, potentially affecting our ability to compete and the competitive
landscape generally. The competitive landscape may also be impacted by longer term fiscal policies in response to adverse market and economic conditions including tax law changes, and the impacts of such policies on interest rates and economic and
market conditions generally and on financial and insurance products.    Consolidations among companies in the financial services industry may occur and result in competitors with increased market shares, or the introduction of larger or financially stronger competitors
through acquisitions or otherwise, in lines of business in which we compete.    Certain of our products compete on the basis of investment performance. A material decline in the investment performance of these products could have an adverse effect on our sales, as well as potentially
increase the level of withdrawals and customer complaints. Rankings and ratings of investment performance have a significant effect on our ability to increase our assets under management.    Competition for personnel in our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management
personnel, Prudential Agents, Life Planners, Life Advisors and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. In the ordinary course of business, we lose personnel from time to time in whom we have invested significant training. We direct
substantial efforts to recruit and retain our insurance agents and employees and to increase their productivity. Competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense.    Many of our businesses are in industries where access to multiple sales channels may be a competitive
advantage. We currently sell insurance and investment products through both affiliated and non-affiliated distribution channels, including: (1) our captive sales channel; (2) independent agents, brokers and financial planners;
(3) broker-dealers that generally are members of the New York Stock Exchange, including “wirehouse” and regional broker-dealer firms; (4) broker-dealers affiliated with banks or that specialize in marketing to customers of banks;
(5) intermediaries such as retirement plan administrators; and (6) a rapidly growing bank channel in Japan. While we believe that certain insurance and investment products will continue to be sold primarily through face-to-face sales
channels, customers’ desire for objective and not product-related advice may, over time, increase the amount of insurance and investment products sold through non-affiliated distributors. In addition, we expect that certain insurance and
investment products will increasingly be sold through direct marketing, including through electronic commerce.   
Although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key
distributors. For example, historically, a significant amount of our sales in Japan through banks have been derived through a single Japanese mega-bank and a significant portion of our sales in Japan through Life Advisors is derived through a single
association relationship. We recently signed a distribution agreement with a second Japanese mega-bank, expanding our distribution to now include two of Japan’s three largest banks. We will continue to explore other opportunities to expand our
distribution capabilities through the bank channel, as well as other complementary distribution channels. We periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such
third parties.    The proliferation and growth of
non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to remain competitive with respect to product offerings, compensation, services offered, and recruiting and retention. We continue our efforts to strengthen and broaden
our sales channels, but we cannot assure that we will be successful. We run the risk that our competitors will have more distribution channels, stronger relationships with non-affiliated distribution channels, or will make a more significant or
rapid shift to direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves. If this happens, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected.    Regulation   
Overview   
Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. The purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect our
customers and the overall financial system and not necessarily our shareholders. Many of 
  32 


Table of Contents

the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations.
The recent financial market dislocations produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the U.S. and internationally, including the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act discussed below. As a result of terrorist activity in the U.S. and abroad, U.S. law and regulation of our international businesses, particularly as it relates to monitoring customer
activities, remains a significant factor in our operations.   
Regulation Affecting Prudential Financial   
Prudential Financial is the holding company for all of our operations. Prudential Financial itself is not licensed as an insurer,
investment advisor, broker-dealer, bank or other regulated entity. However, because it owns regulated entities, Prudential Financial is subject to regulation as an insurance holding company. Prudential Financial currently is also subject to
regulation as a savings and loan holding company. However, we intend to limit the operations of Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB to trust services prior to the effectiveness of the “Volcker Rule” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act in
July 2012, permitting us to continue our institutional asset management business without the restrictions described below that might otherwise apply under the Volcker Rule. Such limitation will allow us to deregister as a savings and loan
holding company. As a company with publicly-traded securities, Prudential Financial is subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable generally to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that Act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as Prudential Financial. 
  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
  On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States and subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation.
Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to conduct certain studies and promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue over the next few years. We cannot predict
with any certainty the results of the studies or the requirements of the regulations not yet adopted or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings,
results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or make it advisable or require us to hold or raise additional capital.   
Key aspects we have identified to date of Dodd-Frank’s potential impact on us include: 
 


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council (“Council”) which is authorized to subject non-bank financial companies such
as Prudential Financial to stricter prudential standards (a “Designated Financial Company”) if the Council determines that material financial distress at the company or the scope of the company’s activities could pose a threat to the
financial stability of the U.S. In October 2011, the Council published for comment proposed regulations setting forth the criteria by which it will designate Designated Financial Companies in a three stage process. Based on the stage 1 criteria,
which include having at least $50 billion in assets and meeting one of five additional quantitative measures, Prudential Financial would be subject to stage 2 consideration. We cannot predict whether Prudential Financial or a subsidiary will
ultimately be designated as a Designated Financial Company. If so designated, we would become subject to stricter prudential standards that are the subject of ongoing rule-making, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to
risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to submit to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”)
(and periodically update) a plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. In December 2011, the FRB published for comment proposed rules implementing certain of these standards, including requirements and
limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress testing (discussed further below), and counterparty credit exposure, as well as overall corporate risk management requirements. Under the proposed rules, a Designated Financial
Company would be required 
  33 


Table of Contents


 
 
to calculate its minimum risk-based capital and leverage requirements as if it were a bank holding company and be subject to a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4%, a total risk-based
capital ratio of 8% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. Designated Financial Companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets would be required to submit annual capital plans to the FRB demonstrating their ability to satisfy the
required capital ratios under baseline and stressed conditions. The FRB has indicated that it intends to issue, in addition to such capital requirements, a proposal requiring a risk-based capital surcharge for such companies, or a subset thereof,
consistent with the Basel III framework discussed below. The proposed rules also include enhanced liquidity requirements (which may in the future be supplemented with specific quantitative liquidity requirements based on Basel III liquidity ratios),
which would require Designated Financial Companies to produce, and regularly stress-test, comprehensive cash flow projections and maintain a liquidity buffer of highly liquid unencumbered assets sufficient to meet projected cash flows under such
stress-testing, and would further require such companies to establish and maintain a contingency funding plan and concentration and other exposure limits to address liquidity needs and risk. Under the proposed rules, a Designated Financial Company
would be required to limit its credit exposure to any unaffiliated company to no more than 25% of its consolidated capital stock and surplus (or, in a case of a designated financial company having total consolidated assets of $500 billion or more,
such as the Company, to no more than 10% with respect to any “major counterparty”, which includes any Designated Financial Company or bank holding company with more than $500 billion of total consolidated assets). The proposed rules
implement, as required by Dodd-Frank, the establishment of an “early remediation” regime, whereby failure to meet defined measures of financial condition (including exceeding certain capital and leverage ratios or market indicator
thresholds, the occurrence of adverse stress test results or other financial triggers) would result in remedial action by the FRB. Depending on the degree of financial distress, such remedial action could result in: heightened FRB supervisory
review; limitations or prohibitions on capital distributions, acquisitions and/or asset growth; requirements to raise additional capital or take other actions to improve capital adequacy; limitations or restrictions on executive compensation;
requirements to elect new directors or hire new executive officers; limitations on transactions with affiliates; restrictions on product offerings and/or requirements to sell assets; or recommendation for resolution under the special orderly
liquidation process discussed further below. The proposed rules would require that a Designated Financial Company, upon a determination by the Council that such company poses a grave threat to financial stability of the U.S., maintain a
debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1 until such time as the Council determines the limitation is no longer necessary. We cannot predict the form in which these proposed regulations ultimately will be adopted. Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to
tailor its application of enhanced prudential standards to different companies on an individual basis or by category, taking into consideration financial activities involved and other factors. We cannot predict how the FRB will apply these
prudential standards to insurance-based financial services organizations such as ourselves if we are designated as a Designated Financial Company. In addition to the foregoing, if we were designated as a Designated Financial Company, the
“Collins Amendment” capital requirements referred to below would apply when adopted by the FRB (i.e., the 5-year grandfathering referred to below would no longer be available). The FRB could also require the issuance of capital securities
automatically convertible to equity in the event of financial distress, require enhanced public disclosures to support market evaluation of risk profile and impose short-term debt limits. 
 


 
•
 
 Until deregistration as a savings and loan holding company is effective, Prudential Financial is subject in that capacity to the examination,
enforcement and supervisory authority of the FRB. Pursuant to the “Collins Amendment” included in Dodd-Frank, the FRB must establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for savings and loan holding companies (including
Prudential Financial) and other institutions that are not less than those applicable to insured depository institutions. These requirements would become generally applicable to Prudential Financial as a savings and loan holding company on
July 21, 2015 (five years after Dodd-Frank’s enactment) except, for purposes of calculating Tier 1 capital, new issuances of debt and equity capital will be immediately subject to the requirements. The risk-based capital requirements
currently applicable to most bank holding companies and insured depository institutions are based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”); U.S. federal bank
regulatory agencies have also adopted new risk-based capital guidelines for large, internationally active banking organizations based on revisions to Basel I issued by the Basel Committee in 2004 (“Basel II”). In December 2010, the Basel
Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation (“Basel III”). Basel III, 
  34 


Table of Contents


 
 
when implemented by U.S. regulation and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and insured depository institutions to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on
common equity, and to comply with liquidity coverage and net stable funding standards, including the imposition of a counter-cyclical capital buffer. The “Collins Amendment” requires the FRB to adopt regulations imposing a continuing
“floor” of the Basel I-based capital requirements in cases where the Basel II-based capital requirements and any changes in capital regulations resulting from Basel III otherwise would permit lower requirements. Regulations that have been
adopted to date to implement these requirements include a modification to the general risk-based capital rules in order to address appropriate capital requirements for low-risk assets held by non-bank financial companies such as Prudential
Financial, and would permit flexibility in the application of certain capital requirements imposed by Dodd-Frank to non-bank financial companies. We cannot predict what capital regulations the FRB will promulgate under these authorizations, either
generally or as applicable to insurance-based organizations. If designated as a Designated Financial Company, and until deregistration as a savings and loan holding company, we will be subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the FRB in
consultation with the newly-created Federal Insurance Office (discussed below) to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the capital necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. Under the proposed rules
published for comment in December 2011, if designated as a Designated Financial Company we would be required to submit to annual stress tests conducted by the FRB and to conduct internal annual and semi-annual stress tests to be provided to the FRB
to assess our capital adequacy and identify potential risks. Under the proposed rules, to the extent we remain a savings and loan holding company but are not designated as a Designated Financial Company, we would be subject to the same stress test
requirements as above except that we would not be required to conduct the internal semi-annual stress tests. Summary results of such stress tests would be required to be publicly disclosed. We cannot predict whether the proposed rules will be
adopted in their current form or the manner in which the stress tests will ultimately be designed, conducted and disclosed for insurance-based Designated Financial Companies or savings and loan holding companies, and we cannot predict whether the
results thereof will cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. 
 


 
•
 
 The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or
practices we and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in that could create or increase the risk that significant liquidity, credit or other problems spread among financial companies. We cannot predict whether any such
recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.   


 
•
 
 Absent our intended conversion of our federal thrift to a trust-only operation, we would become subject to the Volcker Rule provisions of Dodd-Frank
prohibiting, subject to the rule’s exceptions, “proprietary trading” and the sponsorship of, and investment in, funds (referred to in Dodd-Frank as hedge funds or private equity funds) that rely on certain exemptions from the
Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (collectively, “covered funds”). The Volcker Rule will become effective on July 21, 2012 and compliance with the rule will be phased in through July 2014, subject to various extensions and
exceptions. In October 2011, the federal banking agencies issued a joint notice of proposed rulemaking to implement the Volcker Rule. Under the proposed rules, the “proprietary trading” prohibition would not materially alter our securities
trading practices as trading by our domestic and foreign insurance subsidiaries for their separate accounts or for their general accounts are “permitted activities” so long as such trading complies with applicable state or foreign
insurance company investment laws and regulations. However, if the proposed rules were adopted in their current form and were interpreted to prohibit insurance company investments in covered funds, or to apply the aggregate limit of 3% of
Tier 1 capital to our coinvestment in covered funds sponsored by our Prudential Investment Management (“PIM”) or other operations, our insurance subsidiaries would be required to dispose of covered fund investments. Furthermore, our
PIM investment management operations sponsor covered funds in which we coinvest (in both insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries) that are directly affected by the Volcker Rule prohibitions which, among other things, limit permanent investment by a
sponsoring company in any one fund to no more than 3% of fund capital, limit covered fund marketing except to bona fide trust, fiduciary or investment advisory customers, prohibit covered transactions between a fund and the sponsoring company and
prohibit the use of the sponsoring company’s name in the fund’s name. Absent our conversion to a trust-only bank, adoption of the proposed regulations in their current form would

  35 


Table of Contents


 
 
require us to dispose of some covered fund investments, significantly alter our business practices in these operations and/or diminish the attractiveness of our covered fund products to clients.
Assuming we complete the conversion to a trust-only bank prior to July 21, 2012, but Prudential Financial is designated as a Designated Financial Company, the Volcker Rule prohibitions would not apply but we could be subject, pursuant to future
FRB rulemaking, to additional capital requirements for, and quantitative limits on, proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in, covered funds. In addition, actions taken by other financial entities in response to the Volcker Rule
could potentially negatively affect the market for, returns from or liquidity of our investments in covered funds affiliated with such other financial entities. 
 


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives markets which could impact various activities
of Prudential Global Funding (“PGF”), Prudential Financial and our insurance subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). Dodd-Frank generally
requires swaps, subject to a determination by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) or SEC as to which swaps are covered, with all counterparties except non-financial end users to be executed through a centralized exchange or
regulated facility and to be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse. Swap dealers and major swap participants (“MSPs”) are subject to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements that will be imposed by the applicable prudential
regulator or the CFTC or SEC, as well as business conduct rules and reporting requirements. While we believe Prudential Financial, PGF and our insurance subsidiaries should not be considered dealers or MSPs subject to registration and the capital
and margin requirements, the final regulations adopted could provide otherwise, which could substantially increase the cost of hedging and the related operations. A determination by the Secretary of the Treasury not to exclude foreign currency swaps
and forwards from the foregoing requirements also could have that result. PGF intermediates swaps between Prudential entities (other than PFI) and third parties, and it is possible that PGF’s standardized intra-Company transactions might be
required to be executed through an exchange, and to be cleared centrally with posted margin, potentially defeating PGF’s key function; if so, Prudential entities might directly enter into swaps with third parties, potentially increasing the
economic costs of hedging. The SEC and CFTC are required to determine whether and how “stable value contracts” should be treated as swaps and, although we believe otherwise, various other products offered by our insurance subsidiaries
might be treated as swaps; if regulated as swaps, we cannot predict how the rules would be applied to such products or the effect on their profitability or attractiveness to our clients. Finally, the new regulatory scheme imposed on all market
participants may increase the costs of hedging generally and banking institutions (with which we enter into a substantial portion of our derivatives) will be required to conduct at least a portion of their OTC derivatives businesses outside their
depositary institutions. The affiliates through which these institutions will conduct their OTC derivatives businesses might be less creditworthy than the depository institutions themselves, and “netting” of counterparty exposures with
non-banks will not be allowed, potentially affecting the credit risk these counterparties pose to us and the degree to which we are able to enter into transactions with these counterparties. We cannot predict the effect of the foregoing on our
hedging costs, our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or whether we will need or choose to increase and/or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge.   


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury headed by a director appointed by the Secretary of the
Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance (other than health insurance), including serving as a
non-voting member of the Council and making recommendations to the Council regarding insurers (potentially including the Company) to be designated for stricter regulation and coordinating with the FRB in the application of any stress tests required
to be conducted with respect to an insurer. The Federal Insurance Office is authorized to require an insurer or its affiliates to submit data and information that the office reasonably requires to carry out its functions. The director is also
required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. Although the study
was to be completed in January 2012, it has not yet been released.   


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to require a Designated Financial Company or a savings and loan holding company to place its financial activities in an
intermediate holding company separate from non-financial 
  36 


Table of Contents


 
 
activities (as defined for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act) and imposes restrictions on transactions between the two businesses. While our non-financial activities are minor, the
imposition of such a requirement on us could be burdensome and costly to implement.   


 
•
 
 Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy
code, administered by the FDIC as receiver, upon a determination (with the approval of the director of the Federal Insurance Office if – as is true with respect to Prudential Financial – the largest United States subsidiary is an insurer)
that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. Were Prudential Financial subject to such a proceeding, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries would remain subject to rehabilitation and
liquidation proceedings under state law, although the FDIC has discretion and authority to initiate resolution of an insurer under state law if its state insurance regulator has not filed the appropriate judicial action within 60 days of a
systemic risk determination. However, our non-insurance U.S. subsidiaries engaged in financial activities would be subject to any special orderly liquidation process so commenced. We cannot predict how creditors of Prudential Financial or its
insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of Prudential Financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. 
 


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“CFPB”) as an independent agency within the FRB to regulate consumer
financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes, with rule-making and enforcement authority over unfair, deceptive or abusive practices. Insurance products and services are not within the CFPB’s
general jurisdiction, and broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity. Retirement service providers such as us could become subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction,
but only if the Department of Labor and the Department of the Treasury agree. Otherwise, we believe we offer a very limited number of products subject to CFPB regulation and the impact of Dodd-Frank on our operations in this regard should not be
material; however, it is possible that the regulations promulgated by the CFPB will assert jurisdiction more expansively than we anticipate.   


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank includes various securities law reforms that may affect our business practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith,
including:   


 
•
 
 In January 2011, the SEC staff issued a study that recommends that the SEC adopt a uniform federal fiduciary standard of conduct for registered
broker-dealers and investment advisers that provide retail investors personalized investment advice about securities, consider harmonization of the regulation applicable to investment advisers and broker-dealers functions taking into account the
best elements of each regime and conduct rulemakings or provide guidance to facilitate the implementation of a federal fiduciary standard of care. The SEC staff study acknowledges that Dodd-Frank provides that the offering of proprietary products
would not be a per se violation of any new standard of care and that broker-dealers selling proprietary or a limited range of products could be permitted to make certain disclosures about their limited product offerings and obtain customer consents
or acknowledgements.   


 
•
 
 In March 2011, the SEC and other regulators published for comment proposed regulations, as required by Dodd-Frank, requiring the securitizer, and
possibly the originator, of certain asset-backed securities to retain at least 5% of the credit risk of securities sold. Depending on how the final rule is implemented, these requirements may apply to certain activities of our retirement and
investment management segments if we are treated as a securitizer or an originator.   


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank imposes various assessments on financial companies, including: ex-post assessments to provide funds necessary to repay any borrowing and to
cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under Title II (although the FDIC is to take into account assessments otherwise imposed under state insurance guaranty funds); if we were to become a Designated
Financial Company, assessments to fund a newly-created Office of Financial Research which, among other things, assists the Council; and assessments for the costs of our new regulation by the FRB. We are unable to estimate these costs at this time.
   We cannot predict with any
certainty whether these possible outcomes will occur or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
  37 


Table of Contents
International Regulatory Initiatives    In addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United States, lawmakers around the world are actively
reviewing the causes of the financial crisis and exploring steps to avoid similar problems in the future. In many respects, this work is being led by the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”), consisting of representatives of national
financial authorities of the G20 nations. The G20 and the FSB have issued a series of papers and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex
financial groups, should be regulated. These proposals address such issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including executive compensation, and a host of related issues
associated with responses to the financial crisis. The FSB, for example, has proposed to designate certain companies as systematically significant, similar to the approach the Council may take in connection with Designated Financial Companies. The
lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with G20 and FSB recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated
regulation of insurance holding companies by the Financial Services Agency (“FSA”) in Japan, proposals governing executive compensation by the financial regulators in Germany (BaFIN) and the United Kingdom (FSA), and proposals to permit
U.S.-style class action litigation in the United Kingdom with respect to financial services claims. In addition, the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies across the European Economic Area (“EEA”) is due for
significant change under the Solvency II Directive, which was adopted on November 25, 2009 and is expected to come into force in January 2014. This new regime will replace the Solvency I regime, will effect a full revision of the insurance
industry’s solvency framework and prudential regime (in particular minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards) and will impose, inter alia, group level supervision
mechanisms. In particular, the Solvency II regime may have significant implications for non-European insurance groups, like ourselves, that have established insurance undertakings (whether branches or subsidiaries) within the EEA. Subsidiaries and
branches of non-European insurance groups will have to comply with local regulations reflecting heightened prudential standards. At the group level, if group supervision in the jurisdiction of the ultimate parent of a non-European insurance group
(i.e., the U.S. in the case of Prudential Financial) is recognized as “equivalent” to the Solvency II regime, EEA member states are required by the Directive to “rely on” the equivalent group supervision exercised by the
U.S. supervisory authorities; however, if group supervision in the U.S. is not regarded as equivalent, European supervisors would have the power to require the establishment of a European holding company to create a sub-group consisting of all
undertakings (branches and subsidiaries) domiciled in Europe, which would then be subject to supervision by a lead European supervisor. Whether the U.S. supervisor will be deemed equivalent at implementation or eligible for inclusion in a
transitional regime, if any, is still under consideration and remains uncertain. The impact of the implementation of Solvency II on Prudential cannot be determined at this time. There can be no assurance that Solvency II will not, at a minimum,
result in increased supervisory, capital and disclosure burdens on Prudential’s EEA operations with potential broader collateral consequences to Prudential Financial. 
  Further regulatory initiatives may develop in response to the
ongoing European sovereign debt crisis and other significant economic and political events (including any structural reforms or other changes made to the euro, the Eurozone or the European Union). 
  The foregoing requirements and developments could impact the
manner in which we deploy our capital, structure and manage our businesses, and otherwise operate both within and outside the U.S. The possibility of inconsistent and conflicting regulation of the Prudential Financial “group” of companies
also exists as law makers and regulators in multiple jurisdictions simultaneously pursue these initiatives.    Other U.S. Federal Regulation    U.S. Tax Legislation    There is uncertainty regarding U.S. taxes both for individuals and corporations in light of the fact that many tax provisions recently enacted or extended began to sunset at the end of 2011. In addition,
the recommendations made by the President’s bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform and other deficit reduction panels suggest the need to reform the U.S. Tax Code. Congress has held a number of hearings devoted to
tax reform. Some of those hearings have discussed lowering the tax rates and broadening the base by reducing 
  38 


Table of Contents

or eliminating certain tax expenditures. Reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures could make our products less attractive to customers. It is unclear whether or when Congress may take up
overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the Company and its products.    Current U.S. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the
policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. Congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation
that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products. Other legislative changes, such as changes to the estate tax, also could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance
products to consumers. The estate tax was completely eliminated for 2010, but modified carryover basis rules applied for property acquired from decedents dying in that year. The estate tax has been reinstated through 2012 with a $5 million
individual exemption, a 35% maximum rate and step-up in basis rules for property acquired from a decedent. Estates of decedents who died in 2010 can choose between the rules that were in effect in 2010 or the new rules. On February 13, 2012,
the Obama Administration released the “General Explanations of the Administration’s Revenue Proposals,” or Revenue Proposals. The Revenue Proposals include a provision that would make permanent a $3.5 million individual exemption and
a 45% maximum estate tax rate. It is unclear what Congress will do with respect to the estate tax after 2012.   
Additionally, legislative or regulatory changes could also impact the amount of taxes that we pay, thereby affecting our consolidated net
income. For example, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service intend to address through guidance the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction, or DRD, related to variable life insurance and
annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to U.S. tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. The
Revenue Proposals include a proposal to change the method used to determine the amount of the DRD. A similar proposal was included in the President’s deficit reduction recommendations that were released to Congress. 
  Furthermore, the Administration’s Revenue Proposals also
included items that would change the method by which U.S. multinationals claim foreign tax credits and the timing of the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign source income. 
  Congress failed to extend a number of tax provisions that
expired at the end of 2011. One such provision provides tax deferral for investment income earned by a foreign insurance operation until the income is repatriated to the U.S. Although Congress may, as it has done in the past, extend retroactively
all expired provisions, the failure of Congress to do so will subject the Company to current U.S. tax on investment income earned by its foreign insurance subsidiaries. 
  For additional discussion of possible tax legislative and
regulatory risks that could affect our business, see “Risk Factors.”    Proposed Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee    The Obama Administration’s “General Explanations of the Administration’s Revenue Proposals” includes a proposal that would impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, or FCRF, on
certain financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated assets, including the Company. The amount of the FCRF that would be imposed upon the Company under this proposal, in the event it is enacted into law, is unclear, but could be
substantial.    ERISA 
  ERISA is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to
U.S. employee benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions. Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. ERISA provisions include reporting and
disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a
party in interest. ERISA 
  39 


Table of Contents

also provides for a scheme of civil and criminal penalties and enforcement. Our insurance, asset management and retirement businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA,
including services where we may act as an ERISA fiduciary. In addition to ERISA regulation of businesses providing products and services to ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those
plans, which may affect our ability to enter transactions, or the terms on which transactions may be entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to party in interest status. 
  USA Patriot Act 
  The USA Patriot Act of 2001, enacted in response to the
terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote
cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain provisions that may be different,
conflicting or more rigorous. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies,
and share information with other financial institutions require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls.   
Holding Company Regulation   
Prudential Financial is subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which
currently include New Jersey, Arizona, Connecticut, Indiana and Iowa, or are treated as commercially domiciled, such as New York. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register
with the insurance department in the insurance company’s state of domicile and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all transactions affecting the
insurers in the holding company system must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the state’s insurance department. 
  Most states, including the states in which our U.S. insurance
companies are domiciled, have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect change of control of an insurer or an insurer’s holding company. Laws such as these that apply to us prevent any person from acquiring control
of Prudential Financial or of our insurance subsidiaries unless that person has filed a statement with specified information with the insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval. Under most states’ statutes, acquiring 10% or more
of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires 10% or more of the voting securities of Prudential
Financial without the prior approval of the insurance regulators of the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled will be in violation of these states’ laws and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or
seizure of those securities by the relevant insurance regulator or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulator. 
  Currently, there are several proposals to amend state
insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of regulation of insurance holding companies (such as Prudential Financial). The International Association of Insurance Supervisors, or the IAIS, and the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners, or the NAIC, have promulgated model laws for adoption internationally and in the United States that would provide for “group wide” supervision of Prudential Financial as an insurance holding company in addition to the
current regulation of Prudential Financial’s insurance subsidiaries. While the timing of their adoption and content will vary by jurisdiction, we have identified the following areas of focus in these model laws: (1) uniform standards for
insurer corporate governance; (2) group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies; (3) adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks; and (4) additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for
insurance holding companies. At this time, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements may impose on Prudential Financial. 
  40 


Table of Contents
In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to state insurance
departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize
regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Prudential Financial may require prior notification in those states that
have adopted pre-acquisition notification laws.   
As a result of its ownership of Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB, (“PB&T”) Prudential Financial and Prudential IBH
Holdco, Inc. are currently considered to be savings and loan holding companies subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the FRB. We currently offer trust services and banking products through PB&T. As noted above, in
2012 we intend to limit the operations of PB&T to trust services, so that all or substantially all deposits, if any, will be trust funds received in a fiduciary capacity. Such limitation will allow us to deregister as a savings and loan holding
company. As a trust-only organization, PB&T would not have access to a Federal Reserve credit line and would not be permitted to issue commercial loans or checking accounts. PB&T, as a trust-only organization, would be regulated by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) as a federal savings association and Prudential Financial would be subject to supervision by the OCC as to whether it serves as a source of strength to PB&T. We also provide trust
services through Prudential Trust Company, a state-chartered trust company incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Federal and state banking laws generally provide that no person may acquire control of Prudential Financial,
and gain indirect control of either PB&T or Prudential Trust Company, without prior regulatory approval. Generally, beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of Prudential Financial would be presumed to constitute control.
These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of Prudential Financial, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some shareholders of Prudential
Financial might consider desirable.    Insurance Operations
   State insurance laws regulate all aspects of
our U.S. insurance businesses, and state insurance departments in the fifty states, the District of Columbia and various U.S. territories and possessions monitor our insurance operations. Prudential Insurance is domiciled in New Jersey and its
principal insurance regulatory authority is the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. Our other U.S. insurance companies are principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. Generally, our
insurance products must be approved by the insurance regulators in the state in which they are sold. Our insurance products are substantially affected by federal and state tax laws. Products in the U.S. that also constitute “securities,”
such as variable life insurance and variable annuities, are also subject to federal and some state securities laws and regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, and some
state securities commissions regulate and supervise these products.   
State Insurance Regulation   
State insurance authorities have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business including: 
 


 
•
 
 licensing to transact business;   


 
•
 
 licensing agents;   


 
•
 
 admittance of assets to statutory surplus;   


 
•
 
 regulating premium rates for certain insurance products; 
 


 
•
 
 approving policy forms;   


 
•
 
 regulating unfair trade and claims practices; 
 


 
•
 
 establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards; 
 


 
•
 
 fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum accumulation or surrender values; 
  41 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 regulating the type, amounts and valuations of investments permitted and other matters; and 
 


 
•
 
 regulating reinsurance transactions, including the role of captive reinsurers. 
  State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S.
insurance companies to file financial statements with state insurance departments everywhere they do business, and the operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time. Our U.S.
insurance companies prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. The NAIC has approved a series of statutory accounting principles that have been adopted,
in some cases with minor modifications, by all state insurance departments.    Beginning with the annual reporting period ending December 31, 2010, the NAIC adopted revisions to the Annual Financial Reporting Model Regulation, or the Model Audit Rule, related to auditor
independence, corporate governance and internal control over financial reporting. The adopted revisions require that we file reports with state insurance departments regarding our assessment of internal control over financial reporting. 
  State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of
the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance
departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC.    Financial Regulation    Dividend Payment Limitations.     The New Jersey insurance law and the insurance laws of the other states in which our insurance companies are domiciled regulate the amount
of dividends that may be paid by Prudential Insurance and our other U.S. insurance companies. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for
additional information.    Risk-Based
Capital.     In order to enhance the regulation of insurers’ solvency, the NAIC adopted a model law to implement risk-based capital requirements for life, health and property and casualty insurance companies. All
states have adopted the NAIC’s model law or a substantially similar law. The risk-based capital, or RBC, calculation, which regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s statutory capital, measures the risk characteristics of a
company’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. In general, RBC is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items. Within a given risk category, these factors are higher for those
items with greater underlying risk and lower for items with lower underlying risk. Insurers that have less statutory capital than the RBC calculation requires are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory
action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy. The RBC ratios for each of our U.S. insurance companies currently are above the ranges that would require any regulatory or corrective action. 
  Insurance Reserves and Regulatory
Capital.     State insurance laws require us to analyze the adequacy of our reserves annually. The respective appointed actuaries for each of our life insurance companies must each submit an opinion that our reserves,
when considered in light of the assets we hold with respect to those reserves, make adequate provision for our contractual obligations and related expenses.   
Insurance regulators implemented changes in the way in which companies must determine statutory reserves for variable annuities and
products with similar guarantees as of the end of 2009. Insurance regulators continue to make progress in developing a principles based reserving approach for life insurance products. The timing and the effect of these changes are still uncertain.
   Solvency Modernization
Initiative.     State insurance regulators have focused attention on U.S. insurance solvency regulation pursuant to the NAIC’s “Solvency Modernization Initiative.” The Solvency Modernization Initiative
focuses on the entire U.S. financial regulatory system and all aspects of financial regulation affecting insurance companies. Though broad in scope, the NAIC has stated that the Solvency Modernization Initiative will focus on: (1) capital
requirements; (2) corporate governance and risk management; (3) group supervision; (4) statutory accounting and financial reporting; and (5) reinsurance. 
  42 


Table of Contents
IRIS Tests.     The NAIC has developed a set of financial
relationships or tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System, or IRIS, to assist state regulators in monitoring the financial condition of U.S. insurance companies and identifying companies that require special attention or action by
insurance regulatory authorities. Insurance companies generally submit data annually to the NAIC, which in turn analyzes the data using prescribed financial data ratios, each with defined “usual ranges.” Generally, regulators will begin to
investigate or monitor an insurance company if its ratios fall outside the usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. If an insurance company has insufficient capital, regulators may act to reduce the amount of insurance it can issue. None of our
U.S. insurance companies is currently subject to regulatory scrutiny based on these ratios.    Market Conduct Regulation    State insurance laws and regulations include numerous provisions governing the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions governing the form and content of disclosure to consumers,
illustrations, advertising, sales practices and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations. 
  Insurance Guaranty Association Assessments 
  Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under
which insurers doing business in the state are members and may be assessed by state insurance guaranty associations for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer
in an amount related to the member insurer’s proportionate share of the business written by all member insurers in the state. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we paid approximately $3.6 million, $0.8 million and $4.5
million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to state insurance guaranty association laws. Many states offer a reimbursement of such assessments in the form of credits against future years’ premium taxes. In addition, in 2011, we agreed to
make a voluntary contribution of $20 million to an insurance industry solvency fund, related to Executive Life Insurance Company of New York. In 2009, we received $9.3 million of refunds for assessments paid in prior years. While we cannot predict
the amount and timing of any future assessments on our U.S. insurance companies under these laws, we have established reserves that we believe are adequate for future assessments relating to insurance companies that are currently subject to
insolvency proceedings.    Federal and State Securities
Regulation Affecting Insurance Operations   
Our variable life insurance products, as well as our variable annuity and mutual fund products, generally are “securities”
within the meaning of federal securities laws, that may be required to be registered under the federal securities laws and subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA. Federal and some state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under
“—Investment Products and Asset Management Operations” and “—Securities Regulation” affect investment advice, sales and related activities with respect to these products. 
  Our mutual funds, and in certain states our variable life
insurance and variable annuity products, are “securities” within the meaning of state securities laws. As securities, these products are subject to filing and certain other requirements. Also, sales activities with respect to these
products generally are subject to state securities regulation. Such regulation may affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.  
  Investment and Retirement Products and Asset Management Operations
   Our investment products and services are
subject to federal and state securities, fiduciary, including ERISA and other laws and regulations. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, state securities commissions, state banking and insurance departments and the United States Department of Labor are the
principal U.S. regulators that regulate our asset management operations. For a discussion of Dodd-Frank’s impact on our investment products and asset management operations, see “— Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act” above.    Some of the separate account,
mutual fund and other pooled investment products offered by our businesses, in addition to being registered under the Securities Act, are registered as investment companies under the 
  43 


Table of Contents

Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the shares of certain of these entities are qualified for sale in some states and the District of Columbia. Separate account investment products
are also subject to state insurance regulation as described above. We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and are subject to federal and
state regulation. In addition, we have several subsidiaries that are investment advisors registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Our Prudential Agents and other employees, insofar as they sell products that are securities,
are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners. Regulation and examination requirements also extend to various Prudential entities that employ or control those
individuals. The federal securities laws could also require re-approval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. 
  Congress from time to time considers pension reform
legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these
products and services. In this regard, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“PPA”) made significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors’
costs of maintaining these plans. Over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other
services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain products we offer in connection with terminating or ongoing pension plans. The Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act (the “Employer Recovery Act”) was passed in December 2008
in response to the financial crisis that began in the last half of 2007. The Employer Recovery Act modifies the method of calculating a plan’s assets for purposes of satisfying the minimum funding rules set forth in the PPA, and ameliorates the
financial impact of a plan not meeting its current funding target. As a result, the Employer Recovery Act may have the effect of delaying some of the positive and negative impacts of the PPA on our business. 
  For a discussion of potential federal tax legislation and
other federal regulation affecting our variable annuity products, see “—Insurance Operations—Federal Regulation” above.   
Securities Regulation   
We have subsidiaries that are broker-dealers, investment advisors or commodity trading advisors. The SEC, the CFTC, state securities
authorities, FINRA, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and similar authorities are the principal regulators of these subsidiaries.   
Our broker-dealer affiliates are members of, and are subject to regulation by, “self-regulatory organizations,” including FINRA.
Self-regulatory organizations such as FINRA conduct examinations of, and have adopted rules governing, their member broker-dealers. In addition, state securities and certain other regulators have regulatory and oversight authority over our
registered broker-dealers. Broker-dealers and their sales forces in the U.S. and in certain other jurisdictions are subject to regulations that cover many aspects of the securities business, including sales methods and trading practices. The
regulations cover the suitability of investments for individual customers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping, financial reporting and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The
SEC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist
orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of a broker-dealer or an investment advisor or its employees.   
As registered broker-dealers and members of various self-regulatory organizations, our U.S. registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are
subject to the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule. The Uniform Net Capital Rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that at least a minimum part of a broker-dealer’s assets be kept in
relatively liquid form. These net capital requirements are designed to measure the financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. Our broker-dealers are also subject to the net capital requirements of the CFTC and the various securities and
commodities exchanges of which they are members. Compliance with the net capital requirements could limit those operations that require the intensive use of capital, such as underwriting and trading activities, and may limit the ability of these
subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial. 
  44 


Table of Contents
Privacy Regulation 
  Federal and state law and regulation require financial
institutions and other businesses to protect the security and confidentiality of personal information, including health-related and customer information, and to notify customers and other individuals about their policies and practices relating to
their collection and disclosure of health-related and customer information and their practices relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. State laws regulate use and disclosure of social security numbers. Federal
and state laws require notice to affected individuals, law enforcement, regulators and others if there is a breach of the security of certain personal information, including social security numbers, and require holders of certain personal
information to protect the security of the data. Federal regulations require financial institutions and creditors to implement effective programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft. Federal and state laws and regulations regulate the
ability of financial institutions to make telemarketing calls and to send unsolicited e-mail or fax messages to consumers and customers. Federal law and regulation regulate the permissible uses of certain personal information, including consumer
report information. Federal and state governments and regulatory bodies may be expected to consider additional or more detailed regulation regarding these subjects and the privacy and security of personal information. 
  Environmental Considerations 
  Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations
apply to our ownership and operation of real property. Inherent in owning and operating real property are the risks of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up. Under the laws of certain states, contamination of a
property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of clean-up, which could adversely affect our commercial mortgage lending business. In several states, this lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage
against such property. In addition, in some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, we may be liable, in certain circumstances, as an “owner” or
“operator,” for costs of cleaning-up releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at a property mortgaged to us. We also risk environmental liability when we foreclose on a property mortgaged to us, although Federal legislation
provides for a safe harbor from CERCLA liability for secured lenders that foreclose and sell the mortgaged real estate, provided that certain requirements are met. However, there are circumstances in which actions taken could still expose us to
CERCLA liability. Application of various other federal and state environmental laws could also result in the imposition of liability on us for costs associated with environmental hazards.    We routinely conduct environmental assessments prior to taking title to real estate, whether through
acquisition for investment, or through foreclosure on real estate collateralizing mortgages that we hold. Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, we seek to minimize this risk by undertaking these environmental assessments
and complying with our internal procedures, and as a result, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any clean-up of properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.    Unclaimed Property Laws 
  We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and
other jurisdictions concerning the identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and we are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. For additional discussion of these matters, see Note 23
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    Regulation of our
International Businesses    Our international
businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. As in the U.S., the purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. Many of the laws and regulations to which our
international businesses are subject are regularly re-examined, in some instances resulting in comprehensive restatements of applicable laws, regulations and reorganization of supervising authorities. Existing or future laws or regulations may
become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations as regulators seek to protect their financial systems from perceived systemic risk. 
  45 


Table of Contents

It is also becoming increasingly common for regulatory developments originating in the U.S., such as those discussed above, to be studied and adopted in some form in other jurisdictions in which
we do business and for regulatory proposals developed in other jurisdictions (including the European Union) or by international standard setting bodies to have cross-border impact on how our businesses are regulated. For example, the insurance
regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, including Japan and Korea, have introduced Sarbanes-Oxley type financial control requirements as well, and solvency regulatory approaches developed in Europe are being considered or adopted in
jurisdictions such as Japan and Mexico. It is likely that the recent financial market dislocations will lead to changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, affecting our international business. Changes such as these can
increase compliance costs and potential regulatory exposure. In some instances, such jurisdictions may also impose different, conflicting or more rigorous laws and requirements, including regulations governing privacy, consumer protection, employee
protection, corporate governance and capital adequacy. In some jurisdictions, including Korea and Taiwan, new privacy protection laws have the potential to negatively impact certain aspects of our Life Planner business model, including our reliance
on customer referrals to generate new sales.    In
addition, our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in the U.S., including the risk of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers’ associations and trade unions,
nationalization or expropriation of assets, dividend limitations, price controls and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or
converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Some jurisdictions in which we operate joint ventures restrict our maximum percentage of ownership, which exposes us to joint venture partner risks and limits our array of
potential remedies.    Our international insurance
operations are principally supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including the Japanese Ministry of Finance and Financial Services Agency. We operate insurance companies in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Mexico,
Argentina, Brazil, Italy and Poland and have insurance operations in India through a joint venture in which we have a minority interest. We also received approval in 2011 from the China Insurance Regulatory Commission to apply for a license to
operate a life insurance joint venture in China. The insurance regulatory bodies for these businesses typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of insurance sales staff, insurance product approvals, sales practices, claims
payment practices, permissible investments, solvency and capital adequacy, and insurance reserves, among other items. In some jurisdictions, for certain products, regulators will also mandate premium rates (or components of pricing) or minimum
guaranteed interest rates. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used by these regulators to supervise our
non-U.S. insurance businesses.    In order to
monitor insurers’ solvency, regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate outside the U.S. generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies, similar in concept to the RBC ratios
that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators. These solvency margins are used by regulators to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s capital and claims-paying ability and include the impact of transactions with affiliated entities. The
solvency margin ratios in certain jurisdictions are required to be disclosed to the public. Insurers that have less solvency margin than the regulators require are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of
regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy. The solvency margin ratios for each of our international insurance operations currently are above the ranges that would require any regulatory or corrective action. 
  The Financial Services Agency, the insurance regulator in
Japan, has implemented revisions to the solvency margin requirements that will revise risk charges for certain assets and change the manner in which an insurance company’s core capital is calculated. Under the revised requirements, certain
financial assets will now be excluded from the core capital calculation and certain investment risk factors, including derivatives and foreign exchange, will be revised. These changes are effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012;
however, we have already begun to publicly disclose both our old and new solvency margin calculations. We believe that the solvency margins of our Japanese insurance subsidiaries under the new method will continue to satisfy regulatory and other
requirements and will not negatively impact our competitive position. We anticipate further changes in solvency regulation from jurisdiction to jurisdiction based on regulatory developments in the U.S., the European Union, and recommendations by an
international standard setting body for the insurance industry, as well as 
  46 


Table of Contents

regulatory requirements for those companies deemed to be systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs, in the U.S. or abroad. It is unclear what criteria will be used to determine
which companies will be deemed to be SIFIs or whether we will be so treated.    In addition, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), an international standard setting body, has been developing model regulatory standards that may result in the imposition of new
or more rigorous model regulatory requirements on our insurance operations in one or more countries related to risk management, corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance groups, as well as enhanced solvency, capital and liquidity
requirements.    The insurance regulatory bodies in
some of the countries where our international insurance businesses are located regulate the amount of dividends that they can pay to shareholders. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information regarding the ability of our international subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial. 
  Our international investment operations are also supervised
primarily by regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate. We operate investment-related businesses in, among other jurisdictions, Japan, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, India, Germany and Singapore, and participate in
investment-related joint ventures in Brazil, Italy and China. These businesses may provide investment-related products such as investment management products and services, mutual funds, brokerage, and separately managed accounts. The regulatory
authorities for these businesses typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of investment product sales staff, sales practices, solvency and capital adequacy, mutual fund product approvals and related disclosures, securities,
commodities and related laws, among other items.   
In some cases, our international investment operations are also subject to U.S. securities laws and regulations. Some of these operations
may be registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Our international businesses may also be subject to other U.S. laws governing businesses controlled by U.S. companies such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act and certain regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Controls. In addition, under current U.S. law and regulations we may be prohibited from dealing with certain individuals or entities in certain circumstances and we may be
required to monitor customer activities, which may affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Further, certain of our businesses, particularly those with operations in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), are also subject to the
U.K.’s recently enacted Anti-Bribery Law, which governs interactions with both governmental and private commercial entities.   
Certain of our international insurance operations, including those in Japan, may be subject to assessments, generally based on their
proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. As we cannot predict the timing of future assessments, they may materially affect the
results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. In addition, in some jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are considered “securities” under local law. In those instances,
we may also be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local securities regulators.   
Under the Japanese insurance guaranty law, substantially similar to such laws in the U.S., all licensed life insurers in Japan are
required to be members and are assessed, on a pre-funded basis, by the Japan Policyholders Protection Corporation, or PPC. These assessments generate a collective fund which is used to satisfy certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
policyholders and claimants. The PPC assesses each member in an amount related to its proportionate share of new business written by all member insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we paid approximately $29 million,
$16 million and $15 million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to Japanese insurance guaranty association laws. As a result of our acquisition of Star and Edison in 2011, our overall share of the life insurance market in Japan, and therefore our
share of any future assessments under Japanese guaranty laws, will be proportionately higher than in the past.   
Our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they
operate. Foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could impact the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. 
  47 


Table of Contents
In 2009, Taiwan enacted a corporate income tax rate decrease from 25% to 20% effective
January 1, 2010. Also in 2009, Mexico enacted a corporate income tax rate increase effective in 2010. In 2010, Taiwan further reduced the corporate tax rate from 20% to 17% for tax years beginning in or after 2010. On November 30, 2011,
Japan enacted the 2011 corporate tax reform that decreased the national corporate tax rate from 30% to 28.05%, after taking into account the special reconstruction corporate tax, for tax years beginning on or after April, 1, 2012, and to 25.5% for
tax years beginning on or after April 1, 2015. The carryforward period for net operating losses in Japan was increased from 7 to 9 years. Under the new legislation net operating losses can only offset 80% of a company’s taxable income. On
December 31, 2011 Korea rescinded the corporate tax decrease to 22% that was to be effective in 2012. Therefore, the Korean corporate tax rate remains at 24.2% for 2012 and thereafter.    Our international operations are often subject to value added tax and similar taxes in the countries in which
they operate. The Japan ruling party has proposed to increase the 5% consumption tax to 8% in April 2014 and to 10% in October 2015. An increase to such tax rates could reduce our consolidated net income. 
  While no official announcement has been made, there is
speculation that the Japan National Tax Authority (NTA) may reduce the corporate tax deductibility of premiums paid for cancer products. Such a change could result in a decrease in the sale of such products in Japan. 
  Our international operations are regulated in the
jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. These regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and
adversely affect our liquidity and profitability.   
Employees   
As of December 31, 2011, we had 50,104 employees and sales associates, including 31,219 located outside of the U.S. We believe our
relations with our employees and sales associates are satisfactory.    Available Information    Prudential Financial files periodic and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained through the SEC’s
website (www.sec.gov) or by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.   
You may also access our press releases, financial information and reports filed with the SEC (for example, our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those Forms) online at www.investor.prudential.com. Copies of any documents on our website are available without charge, and reports filed with or furnished to
the SEC will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. 
 


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS   
You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial
condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. These risks
are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under “Forward-Looking Statements” above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. 
  48 


Table of Contents
Market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our
business and profitability.    Some of our
businesses and our results of operations were materially adversely affected by adverse conditions in the global financial markets and adverse economic conditions in recent years. Our businesses, results of operations and financial condition may be
adversely affected, possibly materially, if these conditions persist or recur.    Uncertainty and concerns with respect to market, economic and financial conditions in Europe intensified in the latter part of 2011. These concerns have given rise to a perceived risk of default on the
government securities of certain European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, and fears of a contagion that could lead to the insolvency of, or defaults by, other countries as well as financial institutions with
significant direct or indirect exposure to the government securities of affected countries. The credit ratings of most European countries have been downgraded by certain of the major rating agencies. Yields on the government securities of most
European Union member states have been volatile. The European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund have implemented or proposed programs to address these conditions. We cannot predict with any certainty whether these
programs will be successful or the effect that continuing adverse European market, economic and financial conditions or such programs may have on the future viability of the euro or the European Monetary Union. Adverse European market, economic and
financial conditions have had, and are likely to continue to have, a negative impact on global economic activity and financial markets. These conditions, should they persist or worsen, could adversely affect our investment results, results of
operations and financial position.    Even under
relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance and annuities products and certain of our investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and
other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. These fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: 
 


 
•
 
 The profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which
fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions.   


 
•
 
 Market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage or lower transaction volume have an adverse effect on the revenues and
profitability of our asset management services, which depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management or transaction volume, and could further decrease the value of our strategic investments. 
 


 
•
 
 A change in market conditions, including prolonged periods of high inflation, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely
affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings and protection products. A prolonged period of low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability (as further
described below). Similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain product lines. 
 


 
•
 
 Sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of variable life and annuity products
and withdrawals of assets from other investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products.
  


 
•
 
 A market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current
account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to
us. Any increased cost may or may not be more than offset by the favorable impact of greater persistency from prolonged fee streams. Our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products
requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to
increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 
  49 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional
expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. 
 


 
•
 
 Hedging instruments we hold to manage foreign exchange, product, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized
losses and unforeseen cash needs. Market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products
being hedged. Our hedging strategies rely on the performance of counterparties to such hedges. These counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in unhedged exposures and losses on uncollateralized positions.
  


 
•
 
 We have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, foreign government
securities (primarily that of the Japanese government), equities and commercial real estate. Economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes,
benchmark interest rate changes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and declines in value of underlying collateral will impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher
capital charges and unrealized or realized losses, the latter especially if we were to need to sell a significant amount of investments under such conditions. For example, a widening of credit spreads increases the net unrealized loss position
(currently in an unrealized gain position) of our investment portfolio and may ultimately result in increased realized losses. Values of our investments and derivatives can also be impacted by reductions in price transparency, changes in assumptions
or inputs we use in estimating fair value and changes in investor confidence and preferences, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. Volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less
frequent. Valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, and in certain cases under U.S. GAAP such
period to period changes in the value of investments are not recognized in our results of operations or consolidated statements of financial position. 
 


 
•
 
 Opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns may be limited, including due to the current low interest rate environment, a
diminished securitization market or other factors, with a possible negative impact on our overall results. The consequences of holding cash for long periods of time may necessitate increased purchase of derivatives for duration management purposes.
The increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our U.S. GAAP results and our statutory capital.   


 
•
 
 Regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds and commercial mortgages, are relatively illiquid. If we needed
to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize.   


 
•
 
 Fluctuations in our operating results and the impact on our investment portfolio may impact the Company’s tax profile and its ability to optimally
utilize tax attributes.    Adverse capital
market conditions have in the past, and could in the future, significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. Under such conditions,
we may seek additional debt or equity capital but be unable to obtain such.    Adverse capital market conditions have affected and may affect in the future the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately
impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock and replace certain maturing debt obligations. Without sufficient
liquidity, we could be forced to curtail certain of our operations, and our business could suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and cash flow from our investment portfolio and
assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including securities lending and repurchase agreements, commercial
paper, medium and long-term debt and capital securities. 
  50 


Table of Contents
Disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets limited and, to the extent
they persist or recur, may limit in the future our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance and annuities operations. These market conditions may in the future limit our ability to replace, in a timely
manner, maturing debt obligations and access the capital necessary to grow our business, replace capital withdrawn by customers or raise new capital required by our subsidiaries as a result of volatility in the markets. As a result, under such
conditions we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly
reduce our financial flexibility. Actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. Our ability to borrow under our commercial paper programs is also dependent upon market conditions. Future
deterioration of our capital position at a time when we are unable to access the long-term debt or commercial paper markets could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient.
   We may seek additional debt or equity financing
to satisfy our needs. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit
ratings and credit capacity. We may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. 
  The Risk Based Capital, or RBC, ratio is a primary measure by
which we and state insurance regulators evaluate the capital adequacy of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries, which includes businesses in both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. We
manage Prudential Insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries’ RBC ratios to a level consistent with their ratings objectives; however, rating agencies take into account a variety of factors in assigning ratings to our
insurance subsidiaries in addition to RBC levels. RBC is determined by statutory rules that consider risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance-related risks associated with Prudential Insurance’s products, interest
rate risks and general business risks. The RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of Prudential Insurance’s statutory capitalization. Adverse financial performance in the Closed Block
Business in Prudential Insurance, including adverse investment performance, may adversely affect Prudential Insurance’s RBC ratios, although dividends to Closed Block policyholders may be subsequently adjusted to reflect such performance. The
failure of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries to meet applicable RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject those subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by
state insurance regulators. The failure to maintain the RBC ratios of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries at desired levels could also adversely impact our competitive position. In addition, RBC ratios may impact our
credit and claims paying ratings. Our international insurance companies are subject to conceptually similar measures of capital adequacy, including solvency margins for our Japanese insurance companies, and we face similar risks as those described
for our domestic companies in the event that we are unable to maintain these measures at adequate levels. U.S. and international insurance regulators may change capital requirements, as described herein. 
  Disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect
Prudential Financial’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. Therefore, we may need to take actions,
which may include but are not limited to: (1) further access external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (2) reduce or eliminate future shareholder dividends on our Common Stock; (3) undertake additional capital
management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (4) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (5) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; (6) seek temporary or
permanent changes to regulatory rules; and (7) maintain greater levels of cash balances or for longer periods thereby reducing investment returns. Certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which
are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them.    Our asset management operations include real estate held in Prudential Insurance separate accounts, for the benefit of clients, which enter into forward commitments that typically are funded from separate
account assets and cash flows and related separate account funding sources. Adverse credit and real estate capital market conditions affecting fund liquidity and the availability of financing could produce challenges in meeting these commitments in
the normal course. In such cases, Prudential Insurance might be called upon or required to provide interim funding solutions, which could affect the availability of liquidity for other purposes. 
  51 


Table of Contents
An inability to access our credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.    We
maintain committed unsecured revolving credit facilities that, as of December 31, 2011, totaled $3.75 billion. We rely on these credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations
as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facilities, such as
Prudential Financial’s maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth calculated in accordance with the applicable credit agreement. Our failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the credit facilities
would restrict our access to the facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  We have experienced and may experience additional downgrades in our
financial strength or credit ratings. A downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs
and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, trading counterparties or reinsurers and restrict our access to alternative sources of liquidity.   
Financial strength ratings, which are sometimes referred to as “claims-paying” ratings, represent the opinions of rating
agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy, and are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products, including
Prudential Insurance and our other insurance company subsidiaries. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity’s ability to repay its indebtedness, and Prudential Financial’s credit ratings are important to
our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our
competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of
credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading
counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. In addition, we consider our own risk of non-performance in determining the fair value of our liabilities, including insurance liabilities that are
classified as embedded derivatives under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities. For a description of material rating actions that have occurred from the beginning of
2011 through the date of this filing, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Ratings.”   
Prudential Insurance has been a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY, since June 2008. Membership allows Prudential
Insurance access to FHLBNY’s financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans, and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. Under FHLBNY guidelines, if Prudential
Insurance’s financial strength ratings decline below A/A2/A Stable by S&P, Moody’s and Fitch, respectively, and the FHLBNY does not receive written assurances from the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance regarding Prudential
Insurance’s solvency, new borrowings from the FHLBNY would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. Although Prudential Insurance’s ratings are currently at or above the required minimum levels, there can be no assurance that the ratings
will remain at these levels in the future.    We
cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our
ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Ratings downgrades and changes in credit spreads may require us to post collateral, thereby affecting our
liquidity, and we may be unable to effectively implement certain capital management activities as a result, or for other reasons.   
A downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional
collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. A ratings downgrade
of three ratings levels from the ratings levels at December 31, 2011 (relating to financial strength ratings in certain cases and credit ratings in other cases) would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such
agreements of approximately $75 million. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to “A-” for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.8
billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $28 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or
securities to be held in a trust.    In addition,
agreements in connection with capital management activities for our universal life insurance products would require us to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10-year credit default swap spreads on Prudential
Financial’s senior debt. As of December 31, 2011, no collateral amounts were required to be paid.    Interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our businesses and profitability and require us to increase reserves and statutory capital. 
  Our insurance and annuity products and certain of our
investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: 
 


 
•
 
 Some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under
the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. When interest rates decline, we have to reinvest the cash income from our investments in lower yielding instruments, potentially
reducing net investment income. Since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. When interest rates
rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. In addition, rising interest rates
could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the Company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. 
 


 
•
 
 Changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn
additional spread income on the borrowed funds.   


 
•
 
 When interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders
seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of DAC, DSI or VOBA (each defined below). In addition,
increasing interest rates could cause capital strain for Japanese statutory reporting because the carrying value of bonds classified as available-for-sale would decline while the value of liabilities would generally remain unchanged.
  


 
•
 
 A decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could result in reduced investments and a decline in our
profitability. An increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could result in a decline in our profitability.   


 
•
 
 Changes in interest rates coupled with accelerated client withdrawals for certain products can result in increased costs associated with our
guarantees.   


 
•
 
 Changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products.
  


 
•
 
 Changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. 
  53 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that
has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. However, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may turn out to be inaccurate. In addition, there are practical and
capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching, especially in some of our Asian operations. Due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be
forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and we may sometimes choose based on
economic considerations and other factors not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities.   


 
•
 
 For certain of our products, a delay between the time we make changes in interest rate and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time we
are able to reflect these assumptions in products available-for-sale could negatively impact the long-term profitability of products sold during the intervening period.    Recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. A prolonged period during which interest rates
remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our pricing may result in greater costs associated with certain of our product features which guarantee death benefits or income streams for stated periods or for life; higher costs for derivative
instruments used to hedge certain of our product risks; or shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, each of which may require us to record charges to increase reserves. In addition to compressing spreads and reducing
net investment income, such an environment may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and resulting in lower overall returns on business
in force. Reflecting these impacts in recoverability and loss recognition testing under U.S. GAAP may require us to accelerate the amortization of DAC, DSI or VOBA as noted above, as well as to increase required reserves for future policyholder
benefits. In addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well
as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves.    Our ability to meet obligations, pay shareholder dividends, and to engage in share repurchases may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on inter-affiliate distributions and transfers by
Prudential Insurance and our other subsidiaries.    Prudential Financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to Prudential
Financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. These sources of funds may be complemented by Prudential Financial’s access, if available, to the financial markets and bank facilities. As
described under “Business—Regulation” and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources,” our domestic and foreign insurance and various
other subsidiary companies, including Prudential Insurance, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to Prudential Financial. In addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the IHC
debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by Prudential Insurance applicable to the Financial Services Businesses in the event the Closed Block Business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. Finally, our management
of Prudential Insurance and other subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. These restrictions on Prudential Financial’s subsidiaries may limit or prevent such
subsidiaries from making dividend payments to Prudential Financial in an amount sufficient to fund Prudential Financial’s obligations, shareholder dividends and share repurchases. From time to time, the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners, or NAIC, and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. Difficult market
conditions could also affect our ability to pay shareholder dividends and conduct share repurchases. 
  54 


Table of Contents
Losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance, bond
insurers and derivative instrument counterparties, downgrades in the ratings of securities we hold or of bond insurers, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors affecting our counterparties or the value of
their securities could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity.
   Issuers and borrowers whose securities or
loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers,
may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Such
defaults, instances of which have occurred in recent periods, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A downgrade in the ratings of bond insurers could also result in declines in the value of our fixed
maturity investments supported by guarantees from bond insurers.    In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. We enter into a variety of derivative
instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. Amounts that we expect to collect under current and future contracts, including, but not limited to reinsurance contracts,
are subject to counterparty risk. Our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties, including reinsurers, do not pay us. This is a more
pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  Under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar
laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. 
  We use reinsurance as part of our capital management with
respect to our Closed Block Business. Ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the business. 
  The eligible collateral that Prudential Insurance is required
to pledge to the FHLBNY in support of its borrowings includes qualifying mortgage-related assets, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities. The major rating agencies have downgraded the credit ratings of certain commercial mortgage-backed
securities and may continue to do so. If future downgrades affect the commercial mortgage-backed securities pledged by Prudential Insurance to the FHLBNY, those securities would no longer constitute eligible collateral under FHLBNY guidelines. This
could require Prudential Insurance to repay outstanding borrowings or to pledge replacement collateral to the FHLBNY, which could materially reduce the Company’s borrowing capacity from the FHLBNY and/or prevent use of that replacement
collateral for asset-based financing transactions.   
As described above, adverse market, economic and financial conditions in Europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the
government securities of certain European countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities, including countries and institutions in which we hold investments. For
additional information concerning these investments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments.” 
  Guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may
decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under U.S. GAAP if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient. 
  Certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity
products, include guarantees of income streams for stated periods or for life. Downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities
associated with such products, 
  55 


Table of Contents

resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. We use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part. These
strategies may, however, not be fully effective. We may also choose not to fully hedge these risks. Hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. Hedging
instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions or other reasons. We sometimes choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated
or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under U.S. GAAP. For example, as discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for
Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities,” during the third quarter of 2010 we began to hedge certain risks associated with our variable annuity
products on a basis that does not fully correspond to the associated U.S. GAAP liability. Changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in
our results of operations and financial position under U.S. GAAP. Estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure in respect of our guarantees. Further, the
risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. The above
factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.   
Our profitability may decline if mortality rates, morbidity rates or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations.
   We set prices for many of our insurance and
annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality (including longevity) rates, or likelihood of death, and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness or disability, of our policyholders. In addition to
the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns and
technologies for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. Pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or
contract will remain in force from one period to the next. Persistency within our Individual Annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher
than current account values in light of poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. Persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments affecting client perception of us, including
perceptions arising from adverse publicity. Many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and/or the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy’s value.
Results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. The development of a secondary market for life
insurance, including life settlements or “viaticals” and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing
assumptions for new business.    Significant
deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. Although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the
policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause policyholders to lapse. Many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust
other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. Even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all, for
regulatory or competitive reasons.    If our reserves for future
policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 
  We establish and carry reserves to pay future policyholder
benefits and claims. Our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on data and models 
  56 


Table of Contents

that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of
premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency. We cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the
timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. If we conclude that our reserves, together with
future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.   
For certain of our products, market performance and interest rates (as well as the regulatory environment, as discussed further below)
impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. We finance noneconomic reserves associated with our Individual Life business.
Marketplace capacity for reserve funding structures may be limited as a result of market conditions generally. Our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and return on
capital.    We may be required to accelerate the amortization of
deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC, deferred sales inducements, or DSI, or value of business acquired, or VOBA, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill or certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance
against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   
Deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC, represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and
renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. Deferred sales inducements, or DSI, represent amounts that are credited to a policyholder’s account balance as an inducement to
purchase the contract, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. Value of business acquired, or VOBA, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts
and is amortized over the expected effective lives of the acquired contracts. Management, on an ongoing basis, tests the DAC, DSI and VOBA recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. In
addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying DAC, DSI and VOBA for those products for which we amortize DAC, DSI and VOBA in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. Given changes in facts and circumstances, these
tests and reviews could lead to reductions in DAC, DSI and/or VOBA that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. Significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could
result in acceleration of amortization of the DAC, DSI and VOBA related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. As discussed earlier, the amortization of DAC, DSI and VOBA are also sensitive to
changes in interest rates.    Goodwill represents
the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is assessed annually for potential impairment, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by
comparing the carrying value (equity attributed to a business to support its risk) of a business to its estimated fair value at that date. As of December 31, 2011, we had goodwill balances related to our Retirement reporting unit, our Asset
Management reporting unit and our International Insurance reporting unit. Market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in
goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income.    As of December 31, 2011, we had operating equity method investments within our International Insurance segment. Declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the
remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income.   
Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax
assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business including the geographic and legal entity source of our income, the ability to
generate capital gains from a variety of sources, and tax planning 
  57 


Table of Contents

strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a
corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.   
Changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit
plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability.    We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in
health care costs. Changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment, may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability.    Our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that
are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.    During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, such as sub-prime
mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be cases where certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data become inactive or for which data
becomes unobservable due to the current financial environment or market conditions. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are
more complex. These values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations or financial condition.   
The decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management’s assessment
of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. Management’s conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and
projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change.   
For a discussion of certain fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20%
or more, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities.”
   We may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated
with Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. 
  The states of domicile of our domestic insurance
subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled “Valuation of Life Insurance Policies,” commonly known as “Regulation XXX,” and a supporting Guideline entitled “The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance
Policies,” commonly known as “Guideline AXXX.” The Regulation and supporting Guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are
consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. Many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital
management actions to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX on our term and universal life insurance business. As we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs to finance statutory
reserves required under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX. However, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional financing as a result of market conditions or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices and or/reduce our sales of term or
universal life products and/or have a negative impact on our capital position. 
  58 


Table of Contents
We have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal,
operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability.    A substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the U.S., primarily Japan and Korea. These operations are subject to restrictions on
transferring funds out of the countries in which these operations are located. Some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk, as well as risks of
discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers’ associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. If our business model is not successful
in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country.   
Many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually
fixed guaranteed interest rates, including in Japan. Actual returns on the underlying investments do not necessarily match the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these
guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative and in which this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products.    Our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are
organized and in which they operate. Foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. On December 31, 2011 Korea rescinded the corporate tax
decrease to 22% that was to be effective in 2012. Therefore, the Korean corporate tax rate remains at 24.2% for 2012 and thereafter. Our international operations are often subject to value added tax and similar taxes in the countries in which they
operate. Japan’s ruling party has proposed to increase the 5% consumption tax to 8% in April 2014 and to 10% in October 2015. An increase to such tax rates could increase actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. While no
official announcement has been made, there is speculation that the Japan National Tax Authority (NTA) may reduce the corporate tax deductibility of premiums paid for cancer products. Such a change could result in a decrease in the sale of such
products in Japan.    Our international operations
are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. These regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of
business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital.    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flow. 
  As a U.S.-based company with significant business operations
outside the U.S., particularly in Japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. We enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge the future income
of certain of our international subsidiaries. Further, our Japanese subsidiaries hold U.S. dollar-denominated assets as a way for us to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the yen exchange rate on our U.S. dollar-equivalent investment in these
subsidiaries. We seek to mitigate any volatility in the local solvency margins of our Japanese subsidiaries due to holding these U.S. dollar-denominated investments by entering into inter-company foreign currency hedges. Currency fluctuations could
adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition as a result of these hedging positions or due to foreign income or equity investments that are not hedged. A significant yen appreciation would require Prudential
Financial to fund cash outflows under the derivative contracts related to our Japanese subsidiaries and, as a result, could create a capital and liquidity strain on the Company. Additionally, a significant strengthening of the yen could adversely
impact the value of the U.S. dollar-denominated investments held in our Japanese subsidiaries and could result in additional liquidity or capital needs for our International Insurance operations. 
  Our Japanese insurance operations offer products denominated
in non-yen currencies, with the liabilities for these products supported by investments denominated in the corresponding currencies. While these non-yen 
  59 


Table of Contents

denominated assets and liabilities are economically hedged, the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates differs,
resulting in volatility in our net income under U.S. GAAP. For example, the non-yen denominated liabilities are remeasured quarterly for foreign currency exchange rate movements, with the related change in value recorded in net income. As such, a
weakening of the yen compared to the currency denomination of the liabilities would result in a charge to U.S. GAAP net income, while the change in value of the related available-for sale investments would be recorded in “Accumulated other
comprehensive income.”    We hold investments
denominated in foreign currencies in the general account of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. We generally seek to hedge this foreign currency exposure but there is no assurance that we will fully hedge this exposure or that such hedges will be
effective. The value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local adverse market, economic and financial conditions. For example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by the recent
unfavorable economic conditions in Europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the European Monetary Union.   
Intense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our
ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability.    In each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products
and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. We compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our
products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and credit and financial strength ratings. A decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely
affect our profitability and assets under management. Many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater
level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. The proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their
productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve
ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. In certain countries in which we operate internationally, we face competition from government owned entities that benefit from pricing or other competitive
advantages. The competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by government sponsored programs, as well as by longer term fiscal policies, adopted in the U.S. and outside of the U.S. in response to dislocations in financial
markets and the economy. Competitors that receive governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, or that are not subject to the same regulatory constraints, may have or obtain pricing
or other competitive advantages. Changes in laws and regulations in response to adverse market and economic conditions may result in us being classified differently than competitors for purposes of capital and other requirements, potentially
affecting our ability to compete and the competitive landscape generally.    Competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, Prudential Agents, Life Planners, Life Advisors and other sales personnel, and our
investment managers. We devote significant efforts to talent management and development and are subject to the risk that executive, management and other personnel will be hired or recruited by competitors. Competition for desirable non-affiliated
distribution channels is also intense. The loss of key personnel or non-affiliated distribution channels could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. 
  We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products
through our current and future distribution channels.    Although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. For example, a significant amount of our sales in Japan
through banks 
  60 


Table of Contents

is derived through a single Japanese mega-bank and a significant portion of our sales in Japan through Life Advisors is derived through a single association relationship. We periodically
negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and
could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our
business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. We are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution
contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. An increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors,
result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. Consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the
terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us.    When our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. If our products are
distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harms to our business.   
Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. 
  Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and
supervision. The purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are
regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. The financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to
produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the U.S. and internationally.   
Prudential Financial is subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC and the NYSE relating to public reporting and disclosure,
securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that Act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other
areas for public companies such as Prudential Financial.    Many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or
other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. These actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could
adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. For a discussion of material pending litigation and regulatory matters, see “Commitments and Guarantees, Contingent Liabilities and Litigation and
Regulatory Matters” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
Congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our
retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. In this regard, the Pension Protection Act of 2006
(“PPA”) made significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors’ costs of maintaining these plans. Over time, these changes could hinder our
sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain products we offer in
connection with terminating or ongoing pension plans. The Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act (the “Employer Recovery Act”) was passed in December 2008 in response to the financial crisis that began in the last half of 2007. The
Employer Recovery Act modifies the method of calculating a plan’s assets for purposes of satisfying 
  61 


Table of Contents

the minimum funding rules set forth in the PPA, and ameliorates the financial impact of a plan not meeting its current funding target. As a result, the Employer Recovery Act may have the effect
of delaying some of the positive and negative impacts of the PPA on our business.    Insurance regulators have implemented changes in the way in which companies must determine statutory reserves for variable annuities and products with similar guarantees as of the end of 2009. Insurance
regulators continue to proceed to develop a principles based reserving approach for life insurance products. The timing and the effect of these changes are still uncertain. 
  Currently, there are several proposals to amend state
insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of the regulation of insurance holding companies (such as Prudential Financial). These proposals include imposing standards for insurer corporate governance, risk management, group-wide
supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. In addition, state insurance
regulators have focused attention on U.S. insurance solvency regulation pursuant to the NAIC’s “Solvency Modernization Initiative”, including regulatory review of companies’ risk management practices and analyses. At this time,
we cannot predict with any degree of certainty what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements may impose on Prudential Financial. 
  Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results
of operations.    See
“Business—Regulation” for further discussion of the impact of regulations on our businesses.    The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of
operations, cash flows or financial condition.   
On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(“Dodd-Frank”), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States and subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government
agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue over the next few years. We cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations not yet adopted or how
Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or advise or require us to hold or raise additional
capital. Key aspects we have identified to date of Dodd-Frank’s potential impact on us include:   


 
•
 
 If designated by the newly established Financial Stability Oversight Council (“Council”) as a systemically significant company, we would
become subject to stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock
prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. Failure to meet defined measures of financial condition could result in substantial restrictions on our business and
capital distributions. We would also become subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) which could cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of
regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. We cannot predict whether Prudential Financial or a subsidiary will be designated as a systemically significant company. 
 


 
•
 
 Until our intended deregistration as a savings and loan holding company in 2012 is effective, Prudential Financial is also subject as a savings and
loan holding company to regulation by the FRB, which has authority, among other powers, to impose capital requirements on the Company as well as stress testing. 
 


 
•
 
 The Council could recommend new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices we and other financial services companies engage in.
We cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 
  62 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Absent our intended conversion of our federal thrift to a trust-only operation, we would become subject to the “Volcker Rule” provisions of
Dodd-Frank prohibiting, subject to the rule’s exceptions, “proprietary trading” and the sponsorship of, and investment in, funds (referred to in Dodd-Frank as hedge funds or private equity funds) that rely on certain exemptions from
the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (collectively, “covered funds”). Absent our conversion to a trust-only bank, proposed regulations would require us to dispose of covered fund investments, significantly alter our business
practices in these operations and/or diminish the attractiveness of our covered fund products to clients. In addition, actions taken by other financial entities in response to the Volcker Rule could potentially negatively affect the market for,
returns from or liquidity of our investments in covered funds affiliated with such other financial entities.   


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives markets which could impact various activities
of Prudential Global Funding (“PGF”), Prudential Financial and our insurance subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). Final regulations
adopted could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our clients or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or increase and/or
change the composition of the risks we do not hedge.   


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury which performs various functions with respect to insurance and
is required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states.
  


 
•
 
 Until deregistration as a savings and loan holding company is effective, and thereafter if we are designated as a systemically significant company, the
FRB could require us to legally separate our financial and non-financial activities. While our non-financial activities are minor, the imposition of such a requirement on us could be burdensome and costly to implement. 
 


 
•
 
 Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company such as Prudential Financial may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside
the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the FDIC as receiver, upon a determination that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. We cannot predict how creditors of Prudential
Financial or its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of Prudential Financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. 
 


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank includes various securities law reforms that may affect our business practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith.
  


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank will and could impose various assessments on us, which we are unable to estimate at this time. 
  See “Business—Regulation” for further
discussion of the impact of Dodd-Frank on our businesses.   
Foreign governmental actions in response to the recent financial crisis could subject us to substantial additional regulation. 
  In addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United
States, the Financial Stability Board (FSB), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations, and the G20 have issued a series of papers and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial
companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. The lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative
and regulatory changes consistent with G20 and FSB recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holdings companies by the Financial Services Agency (FSA) in Japan, proposals governing executive compensation by
the financial regulators in Germany (BaFIN) and the United Kingdom (FSA), and proposals to permit U.S.-style class action litigation in the United Kingdom with respect to financial services claims. In addition, the prudential regulation of insurance
and reinsurance companies across the European Economic Area (EEA) is due for significant change under the Solvency II Directive, which was adopted on November 25, 2009 and is expected to come into force in January 2014. This new regime will

  63 


Table of Contents

effect a full revision of the insurance industry’s solvency framework and prudential regime and may have significant implications for non-European insurance groups, like ourselves, that have
established insurance undertakings (whether branches or subsidiaries) within the EEA.    We cannot predict with any certainty the effect these initiatives may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
  As described above, adverse market, economic and financial
conditions in Europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the government securities of certain European countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities.
Further regulatory initiatives may develop in response to these conditions and related political and economic events such as possible changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the European Monetary Union. 
  Changes in accounting requirements could negatively impact our reported
results of operations and our reported financial position.    Accounting standards are continuously evolving and subject to change. For example, the SEC is considering requiring companies like Prudential Financial to report financial results in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board rather than U.S. GAAP. Regardless of whether the SEC requires IFRS, U.S. GAAP may undergo extensive changes as a result of
current standard setting initiatives of the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These and other changes in accounting standards may impose special demands on issuers in areas such as corporate governance, internal controls and disclosure. Changes
in accounting standards, or their interpretation, may negatively affect our reported results of operations and our reported financial condition.   
Changes in U.S. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less
attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs.    There is uncertainty regarding U.S. taxes both for individuals and corporations in light of the fact that many tax provisions recently enacted or extended began to sunset at the end of 2011. In addition,
the recommendations made by the President’s bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform and other deficit reduction panels suggest the need to reform the U.S. Tax Code. Congress has held a number of hearings devoted to
tax reform. Some of those hearings have discussed lowering the tax rates and broadening the base by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. Reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures could make our products less attractive to
customers. It is unclear whether or when Congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the Company and its products.   
However even in the absence of overall tax reform, the large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and
localities, increases the likelihood that Congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. This can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise
changing the tax rules. While higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance, making our products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral would
have a potential negative effect on our products. In addition, changes in the tax rules that result in higher corporate taxes will increase the Company’s actual tax expense, thereby reducing earnings. 
  Current U.S. federal income tax laws generally permit certain
holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance
contract. Congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, such as
a reduction in income tax rates. Other legislative changes, such as changes to the estate tax, also could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers. 
  64 


Table of Contents
For example, the estate tax was completely eliminated for 2010, but modified carryover basis
rules applied for property acquired from decedent’s dying in that year. The estate tax has been reinstated through 2012 with a $5 million individual exemption, a 35% maximum rate and step-up in basis rules for property acquired from a decedent.
Estates of decedents who died in 2010 can choose between the rules that were in effect in 2010 or the new rules. On February 13, 2012, the Obama Administration released the “General Explanations of the Administration’s Revenue
Proposals,” or Revenue Proposals. The Revenue Proposals include a provision that would make permanent a $3.5 million individual exemption and a 45% maximum estate tax rate. It is unclear what Congress will do with respect to the estate tax
after 2012. This uncertainty makes estate planning difficult and may impact sales of our products.    Congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay. For example, changes in the law relating to tax
reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher current taxes.   
The U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service have indicated that they intend to address through guidance the methodology
to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction, or DRD, related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between
our actual tax expense and the expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through guidance or legislation, could
increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income.    The Revenue Proposals include proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. In particular, the proposals would affect the
treatment of corporate owned life insurance policies, or COLI, by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. The proposals would also change the method used to determine the amount of
dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts that are eligible for the DRD. If proposals of this type were
enacted, the Company’s sale of COLI, variable annuities, and variable life insurance products could be adversely affected and the Company’s actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. 
  The Revenue Proposals also include changes to the method by
which U.S. multinational corporations claim foreign tax credits and the timing of the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign-source income. If proposals of this type were enacted, the Company’s actual tax expense could
increase, thereby reducing earnings.    Congress
failed to extend a number of tax provisions that expired at the end of 2011. One such provision provides tax deferral for investment income earned by a foreign insurance operation until the income is repatriated to the U.S. Although Congress may, as
it has done in the past, extend retroactively all expired provisions, the failure of Congress to do so will subject the Company to current U.S. tax on investment income earned by its foreign insurance operations. If this provision is not extended,
the Company’s actual tax expense would increase, reducing earnings.    The products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions. The level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics
and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. Accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or
other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive
to our businesses. In addition, the adoption of “principles based” approaches for statutory reserves may lead to significant changes to the way tax reserves are determined and thus reduce future tax deductions. 
  65 


Table of Contents
Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of
operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation.    We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. Some of
these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. Legal liability or adverse
publicity in respect of these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects.    Material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented
by such matters, are discussed under “Commitments and Guarantees, Contingent Liabilities and Litigation and Regulatory Matters” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our litigation
and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. Our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. It is possible that our results of
operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for
such period. In light of the unpredictability of the Company’s litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position.   
We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. 
  We rely on a combination of contractual rights with third
parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to
litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not
prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. 
  We may be subject to claims by third parties for
(i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense
and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or
from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around.
Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.    The occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition.    The occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, fires,
explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: 
 


 
•
 
 Catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than
anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates.   


 
•
 
 A natural or man-made disaster could result in disruptions in our operations, losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties
to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets.   


 
•
 
 A terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the United States or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in
general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. 
  66 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as H5N1, the “avian flu” virus, or H1N1, the “swine flu” virus, could have a severe
adverse effect on Prudential Financial’s business. The potential impact of such a pandemic on Prudential Financial’s results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: in
the case of the avian flu virus, the probability of the virus mutating to a form that can be passed easily from human to human; the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of
treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured versus the uninsured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the
Company’s asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. 
  There can be no assurance that our business continuation
plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. 
  Climate change, and its regulation, may affect the prospects
of companies and other entities whose securities we hold and other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. Our current evaluation is that the near
term effects of climate change and climate change regulation on the Company are not material, but we cannot predict the long term impacts on us from climate change or its regulation.    Our risk management policies and procedures and our minority investments in joint ventures may leave us exposed to
unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses.   
Our policies, procedures and controls to monitor and manage risks, including hedging programs that utilize derivative financial
instruments, may not be fully effective in achieving their purposes and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. The Company uses models in its hedging programs and many other aspects of its operations, including but not limited
to the estimation of actuarial reserves, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the value of business acquired, and the valuation of certain other assets and liabilities. These models rely on assumptions and projections that are
inherently uncertain. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and
controls may not be fully effective.    Past or
future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be
effective in all cases. Although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates’ business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures are
or may be effective. We review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk
taking. If our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.    In our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third parties, we lack
management and operational control over operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. In those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority
interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a “call” option).    Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the
security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business.   
We depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of
data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. These systems may 
  67 


Table of Contents

fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. Further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others,
including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. If these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational
difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. These risks are heightened by our offering of increasingly complex products, such as those that feature automatic asset transfer or re-allocation strategies, and by our
employment of complex investment, trading and hedging programs.    Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security
breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information.
   Interruption in telecommunication, information
technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and
service our customers, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business.    We face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and
withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions.   
We face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a
business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and
managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. We have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and
our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. These risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 
  We are subject to risks relating to the acquisition, and post-acquisition
operations, of the Star and Edison businesses in Japan.    On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition from American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (“Star”) and AIG Edison Life Insurance
Company (“Edison”) and certain other AIG subsidiaries in Japan (the “Acquisition”). For a description of the acquired businesses (collectively, the “Star and Edison Businesses”) and the Acquisition, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under “Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—International Insurance Division” and “Liquidity and
Capital Resources.” On January 1, 2012, we merged Star and Edison into Gibraltar Life. Notwithstanding the merger, we are subject to certain risks relating to the Acquisition and the Star and Edison Businesses, which risks could adversely
affect, possibly materially, our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity or prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from the Acquisition. These risks include the following: 
 


 
•
 
 We may experience difficulties in integrating the Star and Edison Businesses and the process of integration may take longer than expected. Our ability
to achieve the benefits we anticipate from the Acquisition will depend upon whether we are able to integrate the Star and Edison Businesses into our existing Japanese business in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of certain
operations will require the dedication of significant management resources over a long period, which may distract management’s attention from day-to-day business operations. 
 


 
•
 
 We have begun and expect to continue to incur significant one-time costs in connection with the Acquisition and the related integration of the Star and
Edison Businesses. The costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with the Acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. We may not realize cost savings, efficiencies or synergies that we anticipate.

  68 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 There is the risk that we will be exposed to obligations and liabilities of Star and Edison that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or
duration, by the indemnification provisions in the stock purchase agreement or reflected or reserved for in the historical financial statements of the Star and Edison Businesses, and there is the risk that such historical financial statements may
contain errors.    The Star and
Edison Businesses are also subject to many of the other risks described in this section to which our existing businesses, particularly those in Japan, are subject, including but not limited to risks associated with economic, market and political
conditions, capital and liquidity, foreign exchange fluctuations and regulatory and legal matters.    Regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests.    Various states in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including New Jersey, must approve any direct or
indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. Under most states’ statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that
insurance company or its parent company. Federal, and in some cases, state, banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. The federal securities laws could also require reapproval by
customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. In addition, the New Jersey Business Corporation Act prohibits certain business combinations with
interested shareholders. These regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of Prudential Financial, even if the Board of Directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. 
  Holders of our Common Stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of
our Class B Stock, a second class of common stock.    The businesses of Prudential Financial are separated into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and our Common Stock reflects the performance of the Financial Services
Businesses and the Class B Stock reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. There are a number of risks to holders of our Common Stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: 
 


 
•
 
 Even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the Financial Services Businesses and the
Closed Block Business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. Holders of Common Stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the
Financial Services Businesses; holders of the Class B Stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the Closed Block Business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an
investment in the Company.   


 
•
 
 The financial results of the Closed Block Business, including debt service on the IHC debt, will affect Prudential Financial’s consolidated
results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs.   


 
•
 
 The market value of our Common Stock may not reflect solely the performance of the Financial Services Businesses. 
 


 
•
 
 We cannot pay cash dividends on our Common Stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the Class B Stock in an aggregate amount at least
equal to the lesser of the CB Distributable Cash Flow or the Target Dividend Amount on the Class B Stock for that period. See “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities—Convertibility” for the definition of these terms. Any net losses of the Closed Block Business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the Class B Stock, would reduce the assets of Prudential Financial legally
available for dividends on the Common Stock.   


 
•
 
 Net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the
respective Businesses based on the Company’s methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows to the Financial Services Businesses from 
  69 


Table of Contents


 
 
the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums.
The difference between the administrative expenses allocated to the Closed Block Business and these cash flow amounts are recorded, on an after tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of the businesses and included in the
determination of earnings per share for each Business. A change in cash flow amounts between the Businesses that is inconsistent with changes in general and administrative expenses we incur will affect the earnings per share of the Common Stock and
Class B Stock.   


 
•
 
 Holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock vote together as a single class of common stock under New Jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and
except that the holders of the Class B Stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the Class B Stock. 
 


 
•
 
 Shares of Class B Stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Prudential Financial, than
shares of Common Stock.   


 
•
 
 We may exchange the Class B Stock for shares of Common Stock at any time, and the Class B Stock is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of
all or substantially all of the Closed Block Business or a “change of control” of Prudential Financial. Under these circumstances, shares of Class B Stock would be exchanged for shares of Common Stock with an aggregate average market value
equal to 120% of the then appraised “Fair Market Value” of the Class B Stock. For a description of “change of control” and “Fair Market Value,” see “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Convertibility.” Holders of Class B Stock may at their discretion, beginning in 2016, and at any time in the event of specified regulatory events, convert their shares of Class B Stock into
shares of Common Stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the then appraised Fair Market Value of the Class B Stock. Any exchange or conversion could occur at a time when either or both of the Common Stock and Class B Stock may
be considered overvalued or undervalued. Accordingly, any such exchange or conversion may be disadvantageous to holders of Common Stock.   


 
•
 
 Our Board of Directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of
earnings, with respect to the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business. Although the Board of Directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the Board of Directors’ general fiduciary duties, and we
have agreed with investors in the Class B Stock and the insurer of the IHC debt that, in most cases, the Board of Directors may not change these policies without their consent. 
 


ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
None. 
  70 


Table of Contents


ITEM 1C.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
The names of the executive officers of Prudential Financial and their respective ages and positions, as of February 24, 2012, were as
follows:   














 Name
 
 Age
 
  
 Title
  
 Other Directorships
 

 John R. Strangfeld, Jr.
 
 
58
  
  
 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
  
 
None
  

 Mark B. Grier
 
 
59
  
  
Vice Chairman
  
 
None
  

 Edward P. Baird
 
 
63
  
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, International Businesses
  
 
None
  

 Richard J. Carbone
 
 
64
  
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
  
 
None
  

 Charles F. Lowrey
 
 
54
  
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Businesses
  
 
None
  

 Susan L. Blount
 
 
54
  
  
 Senior Vice President and General Counsel
  
 
None
  

 Helen M. Galt
 
 
64
  
  
 Senior Vice President, Company Actuary and Chief Risk Officer
  
 
None
  

 Sharon C. Taylor
 
 
57
  
  
 Senior Vice President, Human Resources
  
 
None
  

 Barbara G. Koster
 
 
57
  
  
 Senior Vice President, Operations and Systems, and Chief Information Officer
  
 
None
  
   Biographical information
about Prudential Financial executive officers is as follows:    John R. Strangfeld, Jr. was elected Chairman of Prudential Financial in May 2008 and has served as Chief Executive Officer, President and Director since January 2008. He is a member of the Office
of the Chairman and served as Vice Chairman of Prudential Financial from August 2002 to December 2007. He was Executive Vice President of Prudential Financial from February 2001 to August 2002. He served as Chief Executive Officer, Prudential
Investment Management of Prudential Insurance from October 1998 until April 2002 and Chairman of the Board and CEO of Prudential Securities (renamed Prudential Equity Group, LLC) from December 2000 to April 2008. He has been with Prudential since
July 1977, serving in various management positions, including Senior Managing Director, The Private Asset Management Group from 1995 to 1998; and Chairman, PRICOA Capital Group (London) Europe from 1989 to 1995. 
  Mark B. Grier was elected Director of Prudential
Financial in January 2008 and has served as Vice Chairman since August 2002. He served as a director of Prudential Financial from December 1999 to January 2001, Executive Vice President from December 2000 to August 2002 and as Vice President of
Prudential Financial from January 2000 to December 2000. He served as Chief Financial Officer of Prudential Insurance from May 1995 to June 1997. Since May 1995 he has variously served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Governance; Executive
Vice President, Financial Management; Vice Chairman, Financial Management; and Vice Chairman, International. Prior to joining Prudential, Mr. Grier was an executive with Chase Manhattan Corporation. 
  Edward P. Baird was elected Executive Vice President
and Chief Operating Officer, International Businesses, of Prudential Financial and Prudential Insurance in January 2008. He served as Senior Vice President of Prudential Insurance from January 2002 to January 2008. Mr. Baird joined Prudential
in 1979 and has served in various executive roles, including President of Pruco Life Insurance Company from January 1990 to December 1990; Senior Vice President for Agencies, Individual Life from January 1991 to June 1996; Senior Vice President,
Prudential Healthcare from July 1996 to July 1999; Country Manager (Tokyo, Japan), International Investments Group from August 1999 to August 2002; and President of Group Insurance from August 2002 to January 2008. 
  71 


Table of Contents
Richard J. Carbone was elected Executive Vice President of Prudential Financial and
Prudential Insurance in January 2008. He has served as Chief Financial Officer of Prudential Financial since December 2000 and of Prudential Insurance since July 1997. He has also served as Senior Vice President of Prudential Financial from November
2001 to January 2008 and Senior Vice President of Prudential Insurance from July 1997 to January 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Carbone was the Global Controller and a Managing Director of Salomon, Inc. from July 1995 to June 1997; and Controller of
Bankers Trust New York Corporation and a Managing Director and Controller of Bankers Trust Company from April 1988 to March 1993; and Managing Director and Chief Administrative Officer of the Private Client Group at Bankers Trust Company from March
1993 to June 1995.    Charles F. Lowrey was
elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Businesses, of Prudential Financial and Prudential Insurance in February 2011. He served as Chief Executive Officer and President of Prudential Investment Management, Inc. from
January 2008 to February 2011; and as Chief Executive Officer of Prudential Real Estate Investors, our real estate investment management and advisory business from February 2002 to January 2008. He joined the Company in March 2001, after serving as
a managing director and head of the Americas for J.P. Morgan’s Real Estate and Lodging Investment Banking group, where he began his investment banking career in 1988. He also spent four years as a managing partner of an architecture and
development firm he founded in New York City.   
Susan L. Blount was elected Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Prudential Financial and Prudential Insurance in May 2005.
Ms. Blount has been with Prudential since 1985. She has served in various supervisory positions since 2002, including Vice President and Chief Investment Counsel and Vice President and Enterprise Finance Counsel. She served as Vice President,
Secretary and Associate General Counsel from 2000 to 2002 and Vice President and Secretary from 1995 to 2000.   
Helen M. Galt was elected Senior Vice President and Company Actuary of Prudential Financial in October 2005. She was named to the
role of Chief Risk Officer in June 2007. Ms. Galt has been with Prudential since 1972, serving in various actuarial management positions with Prudential Insurance including Vice President and Company Actuary from 1993 to 2005 and Senior Vice
President and Company Actuary, a position she currently holds.    Sharon C. Taylor was elected Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Prudential Financial in June 2002. She also serves as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Prudential Insurance and the
Chair of The Prudential Foundation. Ms. Taylor has been with Prudential since 1976, serving in various human resources and general management positions, including Vice President of Human Resources Communities of Practice, from 2000 to 2002;
Vice President, Human Resources & Ethics Officer, Individual Financial Services, from 1998 to 2000; Vice President, Staffing and Employee Relations from 1996 to 1998; Management Internal Control Officer from 1994 to 1996; and Vice
President, Human Resources and Administration from 1993 to 1994.    Barbara G. Koster was elected Senior Vice President, Operations and Systems, of Prudential Financial in May 2011 and has been a Senior Vice President of Prudential Insurance Company of America
since February 2004. Ms. Koster joined Prudential in November 1995 as the Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Individual Life Insurance Systems and was appointed as the Chief Information Officer of Prudential in 2004. Prior to
joining Prudential, Ms. Koster held several positions with Chase Manhattan Bank, including that of President of Chase Access Services.   


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES   
We own our headquarters building located at 751 Broad Street, Newark, New Jersey, which comprises approximately 0.6 million square
feet. Excluding our headquarters building and properties used by the International Insurance division and Asset Management segment, which are discussed below, we own 8 and lease 11 other principal properties throughout the U.S., some of which are
used for home office functions. Our domestic operations also lease approximately 190 other locations throughout the U.S.   
For our International Insurance segment, which includes our international insurance operations as well as our international investment
operations, we own 6 home offices located in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Brazil and Argentina, and lease 7 home offices located in Japan, China, Taiwan, Italy, Mexico, India and Poland. We also 
  72 


Table of Contents

own approximately 170 and lease approximately 760 other properties, primarily field offices, located throughout these same countries. For our Asset Management segment, we lease 12 international
principal properties located in Brazil, Mexico, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Korea, China, Germany and the United Kingdom, in addition to approximately 10 other branch offices within Europe and Asia. 
  We believe our properties are adequate and suitable for our
business as currently conducted and are adequately maintained. The above properties do not include properties we own for investment-only purposes.   


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
We are subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including class action lawsuits. Our pending
legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and proceedings generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate, including in both cases businesses that have either been divested or placed in
wind-down status. In our insurance operations, we are subject to class action lawsuits and individual lawsuits involving a variety of issues, including sales practices, underwriting practices, claims payment and procedures, additional premium
charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits, return of premiums or excessive premium charges and breaching fiduciary duties to customers. In our investment-related operations, we are subject to litigation involving
commercial disputes with counterparties or partners and class action lawsuits and other litigation alleging, among other things, that we made improper or inadequate disclosures in connection with the sale of assets and annuity and investment
products or charged excessive or impermissible fees on these products, recommended unsuitable products to customers, mishandled customer accounts or breached fiduciary duties to customers. In our securities operations, we are subject to class action
lawsuits, arbitrations and other actions arising out of our former retail securities brokerage, account management, underwriting, former investment banking and other activities, including claims of improper or inadequate disclosure regarding
investments or charges, recommending investments or products that were unsuitable for tax advantaged accounts, assessing impermissible fees or charges, engaging in excessive or unauthorized trading, making improper underwriting allocations,
breaching alleged duties to non-customer third parties and breaching fiduciary duties to customers. We may be a defendant in, or be contractually responsible to third parties for, class action lawsuits and individual litigation arising from our
other operations, including claims for breach of contract. We are also subject to litigation arising out of our general business activities, such as our investments, contracts, leases and labor and employment relationships, including claims of
discrimination and harassment and could be exposed to claims or litigation concerning certain business or process patents. Regulatory authorities from time to time make inquiries and conduct investigations and examinations relating particularly to
us and our businesses and products. In addition, we, along with other participants in the businesses in which we engage, may be subject from time to time to investigations, examinations and inquiries, in some cases industry-wide, concerning issues
or matters upon which such regulators have determined to focus. In some of our pending legal and regulatory actions, parties are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. The outcome of a litigation or
regulatory matter, and the amount or range of potential loss at any particular time, is often inherently uncertain.   
Material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are
discussed within Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under “—Litigation and Regulatory Matters.” 
  Our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many
uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable
resolution of pending litigation or regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. In light of the unpredictability of the Company’s litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible
that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Management believes, however, that, based on information currently known
to it, the ultimate outcome of all pending litigation and regulatory matters, after consideration of applicable reserves and rights to indemnification, is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 
  73 


Table of Contents


ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   
Not applicable.   
PART II   


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  General 
  Prudential Financial’s Common Stock was issued to
eligible policyholders in Prudential Insurance’s demutualization and sold to investors in Prudential Financial’s initial public offering. The Common Stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PRU” on
December 13, 2001. The following table presents the high and low closing prices for the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange during the periods indicated and the dividends declared per share during such periods: 
 
















 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
Dividends
 

 2011:
  



  



  




 Fourth Quarter
  
$
57.32
  
  
$
43.91
  
  
$
1.45
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
65.26
 
  
 
43.93
 
  
 
—  
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
64.62
 
  
 
57.77
 
  
 
—  
  

 First Quarter
  
 
67.32
 
  
 
58.32
 
  
 
—  
  






 2010:
  



  



  




 Fourth Quarter
  
$
59.95
  
  
$
50.68
  
  
$
1.15
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
59.54
 
  
 
49.65
 
  
 
—  
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
65.82
 
  
 
53.66
 
  
 
—  
  

 First Quarter
  
 
60.50
 
  
 
47.02
 
  
 
—  
  
   On January 31, 2012,
there were 1,889,452 registered holders of record for the Common Stock and 468 million shares outstanding.   
The Class B Stock was issued to institutional investors (two subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc. and Pacific Life Corp.) in
a private placement pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 on the date of demutualization. There is no established public trading market for the Class B Stock. During the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2010, Prudential Financial
paid an annual dividend of $9.625 per share of Class B Stock. On January 31, 2012, there were three holders of record for the Class B Stock and 2 million shares outstanding.    Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors currently intends to continue to declare and pay annual
dividends on the Common Stock and Class B Stock. Future dividend decisions will be based on, and affected by, a number of factors including the financial performance of the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business; our overall
financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements and future prospects; regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by Prudential Financial’s subsidiaries; and such other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant.
Dividends payable by Prudential Financial are limited to the amount that would be legally available for payment under New Jersey corporate law. For additional information on dividends and related regulatory restrictions, see “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  In September 2009, Prudential Insurance issued in a
private placement $500 million of surplus notes due September 2019 with an interest rate of 5.36% per annum. The surplus notes are exchangeable at the option of the holder, in whole but not in part, for shares of Prudential Financial Common
Stock beginning in September 2014, or earlier upon a fundamental business combination involving Prudential Financial or a continuing payment default. The initial exchange rate for the surplus notes is 10.1235 shares of Common Stock per each $1,000
principal amount of surplus notes, which represents an initial exchange price per share of Common Stock of $98.78; however, the exchange rate is subject to customary anti-dilution and other adjustments. 
  74 


Table of Contents
For additional information about our exchangeable surplus notes see Note 14 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.    See
Item 12 for information about our equity compensation plans.    Common Stock and Class B Stock    The Common Stock and the Class B Stock are separate classes of common stock under New Jersey corporate law.   
Holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock will be entitled to dividends if and when declared by Prudential Financial’s Board of
Directors out of funds legally available to pay those dividends. To the extent dividends are paid on the Class B Stock, shares of Class B Stock are repurchased or the Closed Block Business has net losses, the amount legally available for dividends
on the Common Stock will be reduced. In addition, payment of dividends will be subject to the following additional conditions:   


 
•
 
 Common Stock will be entitled to receive dividends, if and when declared by Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors, only out of assets of the
Financial Services Businesses legally available for the payment of dividends under the New Jersey Business Corporation Act as if the Financial Services Businesses were a separate New Jersey corporation; and 
 


 
•
 
 Class B Stock will be entitled to receive dividends, if and when declared by Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors, only out of assets of the
Closed Block Business legally available for the payment of dividends under the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, as if the Closed Block Business were a separate New Jersey corporation. 
  Dividends declared and paid on the Common Stock will depend
upon the financial performance of the Financial Services Businesses. Dividends declared and paid on the Class B Stock will depend upon the financial performance of the Closed Block Business and, as the Closed Block matures, the holders of the Class
B Stock will receive the surplus of the Closed Block Business no longer required to support the Closed Block for regulatory purposes. Dividends on the Class B Stock will be payable in an aggregate amount per year at least equal to the lesser of
(1) a “Target Dividend Amount” of $19.25 million or (2) the “CB Distributable Cash Flow,” as defined below in “—Convertibility,” for such year, which is a measure of the net cash flows of the Closed Block
Business. Notwithstanding this formula, as with any common stock, we retain the flexibility to suspend dividends on the Class B Stock; however, if CB Distributable Cash Flow exists for any period and Prudential Financial chooses not to pay dividends
on the Class B Stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the CB Distributable Cash Flow or the Target Dividend Amount for that period, then cash dividends cannot be paid on the Common Stock with respect to such period. The
principal component of “CB Distributable Cash Flow” will be the amount by which Surplus and Related Assets, determined according to statutory accounting principles, exceed surplus that would be required for the Closed Block Business
considered as a separate insurer; provided, however, that “CB Distributable Cash Flow” counts such excess only to the extent distributable as a dividend by Prudential Insurance under specified, but not all, provisions of New Jersey
insurance law. Subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors of Prudential Financial, we currently anticipate paying dividends on the Class B Stock at the Target Dividend Amount for the foreseeable future. 
  The shares of Common Stock will vote together with the shares
of Class B Stock on all matters (one share, one vote) except as otherwise required by law and except that holders of the Class B Stock will have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the Class B Stock.
   If shares of Class B Stock are outstanding at the
time of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Prudential Financial, each share of Common Stock and Class B Stock will be entitled to a share of net liquidation proceeds in proportion to the respective liquidation units of such class. Each
share of Common Stock will have one liquidation unit, and each share of Class B Stock will have 2.83215 liquidation units.   
On December 18, 2001, Prudential Financial’s shareholder rights agreement became effective. Under the shareholder rights
agreement, one shareholder protection right was attached to each share of Common Stock but 
  75 


Table of Contents

not to any share of Class B Stock. Each right initially entitled the holder to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of a series of Prudential Financial preferred stock upon payment of the
exercise price. At the time of the demutualization, the Board of Directors of Prudential Financial determined that the initial exercise price per right was $110, subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in the shareholder rights
agreement. The shareholders rights agreement expired on December 18, 2011.    Convertibility    The Common Stock is not convertible.    Prudential Financial may, at its option, at any time, exchange all outstanding shares of Class B Stock into such number of shares of Common Stock as have an aggregate average market value (discussed
below) equal to 120% of the appraised “Fair Market Value” (discussed below) of the outstanding shares of Class B Stock.   
In addition, if (1) Prudential Financial sells or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of the Closed Block Business or
(2) a “change of control” of Prudential Financial occurs, Prudential Financial must exchange all outstanding shares of Class B Stock into such number of shares of Common Stock as have an aggregate average market value of 120% of the
appraised Fair Market Value of such shares of Class B Stock. For this purpose, “change of control” means the occurrence of any of the following events (whether or not approved by the Board of Directors of Prudential Financial): (a)(i) any
person(s) (as defined) (excluding Prudential Financial and specified related entities) is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total voting power of the then outstanding equity securities of
Prudential Financial; or (ii) Prudential Financial merges with, or consolidates with, another person or disposes of all or substantially all of its assets to any person, other than, in the case of either clause (i) or (ii), any transaction
where immediately after such transaction the persons that beneficially owned immediately prior to the transaction the then outstanding voting equity securities of Prudential Financial beneficially own more than 50% of the total voting power of the
then outstanding voting securities of the surviving person; or (b) during any year or any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of Prudential Financial (together with
any new directors whose election by such Board of Directors or whose nomination for election by the shareholders of Prudential Financial was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors of Prudential Financial then still in office who were
either directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason, other than pursuant to (x) a proposal or request that the Board of Directors be changed as to which
the holder of the Class B Stock seeking the conversion has participated or assisted or is participating or assisting or (y) retirements in the ordinary course (as defined), to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors then in office.
   Holders of Class B Stock will be permitted to
convert their shares of Class B Stock into such number of shares of Common Stock as have an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the appraised Fair Market Value of the outstanding shares of Class B Stock (1) in the holder’s sole
discretion, in the year 2016 or at any time thereafter, and (2) at any time in the event that (a) the Class B Stock will no longer be treated as equity of Prudential Financial for federal income tax purposes or (b) the New Jersey
Department of Banking and Insurance amends, alters, changes or modifies the regulation of the Closed Block, the Closed Block Business, the Class B Stock or the IHC debt in a manner that materially adversely affects the CB Distributable Cash Flow (as
defined below); provided, however, that in no event may a holder of Class B Stock convert shares of Class B Stock to the extent such holder immediately upon such conversion, together with its affiliates, would be the “beneficial owner,” as
defined under the Exchange Act, of in excess of 9.9% of the total outstanding voting power of Prudential Financial’s voting securities. In the event a holder of shares of Class B Stock requests to convert shares pursuant to clause
(2)(a) in the preceding sentence, Prudential Financial may elect, instead of effecting such conversion, to increase the Target Dividend Amount to $12.6875 per share per annum retroactively from the time of issuance of the Class B Stock.
   “CB Distributable Cash Flow” means, for
any quarterly or annual period, the sum of (i) the excess of (a) the Surplus and Related Assets over (b) the “Required Surplus” applicable to the Closed Block Business within Prudential Insurance, to the extent that
Prudential Insurance is able to distribute such excess as a dividend to Prudential Holdings, LLC (“PHLLC”) under New Jersey law without giving effect, directly or indirectly, to the 
  76 


Table of Contents

“earned surplus” requirement of Section 17:27A-4c.(3) of the New Jersey Insurance Holding Company Systems Law, plus (ii) any amount held by PHLLC allocated to the Closed Block
Business in excess of remaining debt service payments on the IHC debt. For purposes of the foregoing, “Required Surplus” means the amount of surplus applicable to the Closed Block Business within Prudential Insurance that would be required
to maintain a quotient (expressed as a percentage) of (i) the “Total Adjusted Capital” applicable to the Closed Block Business within Prudential Insurance (including any applicable dividend reserves) divided by (ii) the
“Company Action Level RBC” applicable to the Closed Block Business within Prudential Insurance, equal to 100%, where “Total Adjusted Capital” and “Company Action Level RBC” are as defined in the regulations promulgated
under the New Jersey Dynamic Capital and Surplus Act of 1993. These amounts are determined according to statutory accounting principles.   
In the event of any reclassification, recapitalization or exchange of, or any tender offer or exchange offer for, the outstanding shares
of Common Stock, including by merger, consolidation or other business combination, as a result of which shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or converted into another security which is both registered under the Exchange Act and publicly traded,
then the Class B Stock will remain outstanding (unless exchanged by virtue of a “change of control” occurring or otherwise, or otherwise converted) and, in the event 50% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock are so exchanged or
converted, holders of outstanding Class B Stock will be entitled to receive, in the event of any subsequent exchange or conversion, the securities into which the Common Stock has been exchanged or converted by virtue of such reclassification,
recapitalization, merger, consolidation, tender offer, exchange offer or other business combination. If, in the event of any reclassification, recapitalization or exchange, or any tender or exchange offer for, the outstanding shares of Common Stock,
including by merger, consolidation or other business combination, as a result of which a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock are converted into or exchanged or purchased for either cash or securities which are not public securities,
or a combination thereof, the Class B Stock will be entitled to receive cash and/or securities of the type and in the proportion that such holders of Class B Stock would have received if an exchange or conversion of the Class B Stock had occurred
immediately prior to the conversion, exchange or purchase of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock and the holders of Class B Stock had participated as holders of Common Stock in such conversion, exchange or purchase. The amount of
cash and/or securities payable upon such exchange or conversion will be calculated based upon the Fair Market Value of the Class B Stock as of the date on which the Common Stock was exchanged, converted or purchased and will be multiplied by 120%.
   For purposes of all exchanges and conversions,
the “average market value” of the Common Stock will be determined during a specified 20 trading day period preceding the time of the exchange or conversion. “Fair Market Value” of the Class B Stock means the fair market value of
all of the outstanding shares of Class B Stock as determined by appraisal by a nationally recognized actuarial or other competent firm independent of and selected by the Board of Directors of Prudential Financial and approved by the holders of a
majority of the outstanding shares of Class B Stock. Fair Market Value will be the present value of expected future cash flows to holders of the Class B Stock, reduced by any payables to the Financial Services Businesses. Future cash flows will be
projected consistent with the policy, as described in the Plan of Reorganization, for the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance to declare policyholder dividends based on actual experience in the Closed Block. Following the repayment in full of
the IHC debt, these cash flows shall be the excess of statutory surplus applicable to the Closed Block Business over Required Surplus (as defined in the definition of “CB Distributable Cash Flow”) for each period that would be
distributable as a dividend under New Jersey law if the Closed Block Business were a separate insurer. These cash flows will be discounted at an equity rate of return, to be estimated as a risk-free rate plus an equity risk premium. The risk-free
rate will be an appropriate ten-year U.S. Treasury rate reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The equity risk premium will be eight and one quarter percent initially, declining evenly to four percent over the following 21 years and
remaining constant thereafter. Fair Market Value will be determined by appraisal as of a specified date preceding the time of the exchange or conversion.   
Any exchange or conversion of Class B Stock into Common Stock could occur at a time when either or both of the Common Stock and Class B
Stock may be considered to be overvalued or undervalued. In the future, if the Class B Stock is exchanged for or converted into Common Stock, the number of shares of Common Stock then obtainable by the Class B Stockholders might constitute a higher
proportion of the total shares of Common Stock then outstanding than the proportion represented by (x) the number of shares of Class B Stock initially issued divided by (y) the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding upon
completion of the demutualization. The degree of any such proportionate increase would depend principally on: the performance of the Closed Block 
  77 


Table of Contents

Business over time and the valuation of the Closed Block Business at the time of exchange or conversion; whether the exchange or conversion implemented involves a premium; the number of any new
shares of Common Stock we issue after the demutualization for financing, acquisition or other purposes or any repurchases of Common Stock that we may make; and the market value of our Common Stock at the time of exchange or conversion. 
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  The following table provides information about purchases by
the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2011 of its Common Stock.   




















 Period
 
Total Number ofSharesPurchased(1)(2)
 
 
AveragePrice Paidper Share
 
 
Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly
AnnouncedProgram(2)
 
 
Approximate DollarValue of Shares thatMay Yet be 
Purchasedunder the Program
 

 October 1, 2011 through October 31, 2011
 
 
2,483,387
 
 
$
50.26
 
 
 
2,482,200
 
 




 November 1, 2011 through November 30, 2011
 
 
2,477,718
 
 
$
50.53
 
 
 
2,467,755
 
 




 December 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011
 
 
3,155
 
 
$
48.01
 
 
 
—  
  
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
4,964,260
 
 
$
50.40
 
 
 
4,949,955
 
 
$
500,540,955
 


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes shares of Common Stock withheld from participants for income tax withholding purposes whose shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units vested during
the period. Such restricted stock and restricted stock units were originally issued to participants pursuant to the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan that was adopted by the Company’s Board of Directors in March 2003 (as
subsequently amended and restated). 


(2)
 
In June 2011, Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase at management’s discretion up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding
Common Stock through June 2012.   


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
We derived the selected consolidated income statement data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and the selected
consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 from our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein. We derived the selected consolidated income statement data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
2007 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 from consolidated financial statements not included herein.   
On February 1, 2011, we acquired the Star and Edison Businesses from American International Group, Inc. The results of these
companies are reported with the Gibraltar Life operations and are included in the results presented below from the date of acquisition.   
On December 31, 2009, we completed the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities. In 2009, “Equity in
earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes” includes a pre-tax gain on the sale of $2.247 billion. In addition, “General and administrative expenses” includes certain one-time costs related to the sale of the joint venture
interest of $104 million for pre-tax compensation costs and costs related to increased contributions to the Company’s charitable foundation. The total of these items is an after-tax gain of $1.389 billion, or $2.95 per share of Common Stock.
   On May 1, 2009, we acquired Yamato Life, a
Japanese life insurance company that declared bankruptcy in October 2008, and renamed The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd. Results presented below include the results of this company from the date of acquisition.
   The 2009 income tax provision includes a benefit
of $272 million from a reduction to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest, primarily related to tax years prior to 2002 as a result of the expiration of the statute of limitations for the 2002 and 2003 tax years.
   Our Gibraltar Life operations use a
November 30 fiscal year end. Consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 includes Gibraltar Life assets and liabilities as of November 30. Consolidated income statement data for 2011, 2010, 2009,
2008 and 2007 includes Gibraltar Life results for the twelve months ended November 30, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
  78 


Table of Contents
This selected consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein.   
























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 
 
    2008    
 
 
    2007    
 

 
  
(in millions, except per share and ratio information)
 

 Income Statement Data:
  



  



  



 



 




 Revenues:
  



  



  



 



 




 Premiums
  
$
24,338
  
  
$
18,260
  
  
$
16,545
  
 
$
15,468
  
 
$
14,351
  

 Policy charges and fee income
  
 
3,924
  
  
 
3,321
  
  
 
2,833
  
 
 
3,138
  
 
 
3,131
  

 Net investment income
  
 
13,124
  
  
 
11,865
  
  
 
11,390
  
 
 
11,824
  
 
 
11,980
  

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
4,828
  
  
 
3,704
  
  
 
4,509
  
 
 
715
  
 
 
3,719
  

 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
2,831
  
  
 
1,050
  
  
 
(2,897
) 
 
 
(2,457
) 
 
 
612
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
 
49,045
  
  
 
38,200
  
  
 
32,380
  
 
 
28,688
  
 
 
33,793
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefits and expenses:
  



  



  



 



 




 Policyholders’ benefits
  
 
23,614
  
  
 
18,285
  
  
 
16,346
  
 
 
16,531
  
 
 
14,749
  

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances
  
 
4,484
  
  
 
4,209
  
  
 
4,484
  
 
 
2,335
  
 
 
3,222
  

 Dividends to policyholders
  
 
2,723
  
  
 
2,189
  
  
 
1,298
  
 
 
2,218
  
 
 
2,903
  

 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
  
 
3,292
  
  
 
1,437
  
  
 
1,494
  
 
 
1,424
  
 
 
996
  

 General and administrative expenses
  
 
9,815
  
  
 
7,688
  
  
 
7,234
  
 
 
7,482
  
 
 
7,483
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total benefits and expenses
  
 
43,928
  
  
 
33,808
  
  
 
30,856
  
 
 
29,990
  
 
 
29,353
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
 
5,117
  
  
 
4,392
  
  
 
1,524
  
 
 
(1,302
) 
 
 
4,440
  

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
1,599
  
  
 
1,303
  
  
 
(62
) 
 
 
(522
) 
 
 
1,176
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
 
3,518
  
  
 
3,089
  
  
 
1,586
  
 
 
(780
) 
 
 
3,264
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes
  
 
185
  
  
 
84
  
  
 
1,523
  
 
 
(447
) 
 
 
246
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
3,703
  
  
 
3,173
  
  
 
3,109
  
 
 
(1,227
) 
 
 
3,510
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
 
35
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
146
  
 
 
219
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
3,738
  
  
 
3,206
  
  
 
3,090
  
 
 
(1,081
) 
 
 
3,729
  

 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
72
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
(34
) 
 
 
36
  
 
 
67
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.
  
$
3,666
  
  
$
3,195
  
  
$
3,124
  
 
$
(1,117
) 
 
$
3,662
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common
Stock
  
$
7.23
  
  
$
5.75
  
  
$
7.72
  
 
$
(2.87
) 
 
$
7.19
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common
Stock
  
$
7.14
  
  
$
5.68
  
  
$
7.67
  
 
$
(2.87
) 
 
$
7.09
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock
  
$
7.31
  
  
$
5.82
  
  
$
7.68
  
 
$
(2.53
) 
 
$
7.61
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock
  
$
7.22
  
  
$
5.75
  
  
$
7.63
  
 
$
(2.53
) 
 
$
7.51
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and diluted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Class B
Stock
  
$
55.50
  
  
$
222.00
  
  
$
(165.00
) 
 
$
(16.00
) 
 
$
68.50
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and diluted net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Class B Stock
  
$
55.50
  
  
$
222.50
  
  
$
(165.00
) 
 
$
(16.00
) 
 
$
69.50
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared per share—Common Stock
  
$
1.45
  
  
$
1.15
  
  
$
0.70
  
 
$
0.58
  
 
$
1.15
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared per share—Class B Stock
  
$
9.625
  
  
$
9.625
  
  
$
9.625
  
 
$
9.625
  
 
$
9.625
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(1)
  
 
1.85
  
  
 
1.80
  
  
 
1.71
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1.97
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  79 


Table of Contents
























 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



  



  



  



  




 Total investments excluding policy loans
  
$
344,688
  
  
$
273,245
  
  
$
250,406
  
  
$
232,322
  
  
$
234,220
  

 Separate account assets
  
 
218,380
  
  
 
207,776
  
  
 
174,074
  
  
 
147,095
  
  
 
195,583
  

 Total assets
  
 
624,521
  
  
 
539,854
  
  
 
480,203
  
  
 
445,011
  
  
 
485,813
  

 Future policy benefits and policyholders’ account balances
  
 
305,011
  
  
 
240,315
  
  
 
227,373
  
  
 
221,564
  
  
 
195,731
  

 Separate account liabilities
  
 
218,380
  
  
 
207,776
  
  
 
174,074
  
  
 
147,095
  
  
 
195,583
  

 Short-term debt
  
 
2,336
  
  
 
1,982
  
  
 
3,122
  
  
 
10,535
  
  
 
15,566
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
24,622
  
  
 
23,653
  
  
 
21,037
  
  
 
20,290
  
  
 
14,101
  

 Total liabilities
  
 
586,710
  
  
 
506,926
  
  
 
454,474
  
  
 
431,225
  
  
 
461,890
  

 Prudential Financial, Inc. equity
  
 
37,223
  
  
 
32,415
  
  
 
25,195
  
  
 
13,435
  
  
 
23,514
  

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
588
  
  
 
513
  
  
 
534
  
  
 
351
  
  
 
409
  

 Total equity
  
$
37,811
  
  
$
32,928
  
  
$
25,729
  
  
$
13,786
  
  
$
23,923
  
    


(1)
 
For purposes of this computation, earnings are defined as income from continuing operations before income taxes excluding undistributed income (loss) from equity method
investments, fixed charges and interest capitalized. Also excludes earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. Fixed charges are the sum of gross interest expense, interest credited to policyholders’ account balances and an estimated
interest component of rent expense. Due to the Company’s loss for the year ended December 31, 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1 and is therefore not presented. Additional earnings of $935 million would have been required for the
year ended December 31, 2008 to achieve a ratio of 1:1.   


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  You should read the following analysis of our
consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the Forward-Looking Statements included below the Table of Contents, “Risk Factors,” “Selected Financial Data” and the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.    Overview    Prudential Financial has two classes of common stock outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B
Stock, which was issued through a private placement and does not trade on any exchange, reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business are discussed below. 
  Financial Services Businesses 
  Our Financial Services Businesses consist of three operating
divisions, which together encompass six segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division consists of our Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S.
Individual Life and Group Insurance division consists of our Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance division consists of our International Insurance segment. Our Corporate and Other operations include corporate
items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments, as well as businesses that have been or will be divested.   
We attribute financing costs to each segment based on the amount of financing used by each segment, excluding financing costs associated
with corporate debt which are reflected in Corporate and Other operations. The net investment income of each segment includes earnings on the amount of capital that management believes is necessary to support the risks of that segment. 
  We seek growth internally and through acquisitions, joint
ventures or other forms of business combinations or investments. Our principal acquisition focus is in our current business lines, both domestic and international. 
  80 


Table of Contents
Closed Block Business 
  In connection with the demutualization, we ceased offering
domestic participating products. The liabilities for our traditional domestic in force participating products were segregated, together with assets, in a regulatory mechanism referred to as the “Closed Block.” The Closed Block is designed
generally to provide for the reasonable expectations for future policy dividends after demutualization of holders of participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block by allocating assets that will be used
exclusively for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. At the time of demutualization,
we determined the amount of Closed Block assets so that the Closed Block assets initially had a lower book value than the Closed Block liabilities. We expect that the Closed Block assets will generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated
revenues from the Closed Block policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all expenses, taxes, and policyholder benefits to be paid to, and the reasonable dividend expectations of, holders of the Closed Block policies. We also
segregated for accounting purposes the assets that we need to hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies. No policies sold after demutualization will be added to the Closed Block, and its in force
business is expected to ultimately decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full. We also expect the proportion of our business represented by the Closed Block to decline as we grow other businesses. 
  Concurrently with our demutualization, Prudential Holdings,
LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we refer to as the IHC debt. The net proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and
IHC debt, except for $72 million used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund a portion of the bond insurance cost associated with that debt, were allocated to the Financial Services Businesses. However, we expect that the IHC debt will
be serviced by the net cash flows of the Closed Block Business over time, and we include interest expenses associated with the IHC debt when we report results of the Closed Block Business.    The Closed Block Business consists principally of the Closed Block, assets that we must hold outside the Closed
Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies, invested assets held outside the Closed Block that represent the difference between the Closed Block assets and Closed Block liabilities and the interest maintenance reserve,
deferred policy acquisition costs related to Closed Block policies, the principal amount of the IHC debt and related hedging activities, and certain other related assets and liabilities.    The Closed Block Business is not a separate legal entity from the Financial Services Businesses; however, they
are operated as separate entities and are separated for financial reporting purposes. The Financial Services Businesses are not obligated to pay dividends on Closed Block policies. Dividends on Closed Block policies reflect the experience of the
Closed Block over time and are subject to adjustment by Prudential Insurance’s Board of Directors. Further, our plan of demutualization provides that we are not required to pay dividends on policies within the Closed Block from assets that are
not within the Closed Block and that the establishment of the Closed Block does not represent a guarantee that any certain level of dividends will be maintained. 
  Revenues and Expenses 
  We earn our revenues principally from insurance premiums;
mortality, expense, and asset management and administrative fees from insurance and investment products; and investment of general account and other funds. We earn premiums primarily from the sale of individual life insurance and group life and
disability insurance. We earn mortality, expense, and asset management fees from the sale and servicing of separate account products including variable life insurance and variable annuities. We also earn asset management and administrative fees from
the distribution, servicing and management of mutual funds, retirement products and other asset management products and services. Our operating expenses principally consist of insurance benefits provided, general business expenses, dividends to
policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing the various products we sell and interest credited on general account liabilities. 
  81 


Table of Contents
Profitability 
  Our profitability depends principally on our ability to
price and manage risk on insurance and annuity products, our ability to attract and retain customer assets and our ability to manage expenses. Specific drivers of our profitability include:   


 
•
 
 our ability to manufacture and distribute products and services and to introduce new products that gain market acceptance on a timely basis;
  


 
•
 
 our ability to price our insurance and annuity products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense
of acquiring customers and administering those products;   


 
•
 
 our mortality and morbidity experience on individual and group life insurance, annuity and group disability insurance products, which can fluctuate
significantly from period to period;   


 
•
 
 our actual policyholder behavior experience, including persistency, and benefit utilization and withdrawal rates for our variable annuity contracts,
which could deviate significantly from our pricing assumptions;   


 
•
 
 our persistency experience, which affects our ability to recover the cost of acquiring new business over the lives of the contracts;
  


 
•
 
 our cost of administering insurance contracts and providing asset management products and services; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to manage and control our operating expenses, including overhead expenses; 
 


 
•
 
 our returns on invested assets, including the impact of credit losses, net of the amounts we credit to policyholders’ accounts;
  


 
•
 
 our assumptions with respect to rates of return; 
 


 
•
 
 the amount of our assets under management and changes in their fair value, which affect the amount of asset management fees we receive;
  


 
•
 
 our ability to generate favorable investment results through asset/liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocation; and where
available and appropriate, our ability to take timely crediting rate actions to maintain investment spread margins;   


 
•
 
 our credit and financial strength ratings;   


 
•
 
 our ability to effectively utilize our tax capacity; 
 


 
•
 
 our returns on strategic investments we make; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to manage risk and exposures, including the degree to which, and the effectiveness of, hedging these risks and exposures;
  


 
•
 
 our ability to effectively deploy capital; and 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to attract and retain talent.   
In addition, factors such as credit and real estate market conditions, regulation, competition, interest rates, taxes, foreign exchange
rates, market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions affect our profitability. In some of our product lines, particularly those in the Closed Block Business, we share experience on mortality, morbidity, persistency and
investment results with our customers, which can offset the impact of these factors on our profitability from those products.   
Historically, the participating products included in the Closed Block have yielded lower returns on capital invested than many of our
other businesses. As we have ceased offering domestic participating products, we expect that the proportion of the traditional participating products in our in force business will gradually diminish as these older policies age, and we grow other
businesses. However, the relatively lower returns to us on this existing block of business will continue to affect our consolidated results of operations for many years. Our Common Stock reflects the performance of our Financial Services Businesses,
but there can be no assurance that the market value of the Common Stock will reflect solely the performance of these businesses. 
  82 


Table of Contents
See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks that have affected and may affect in
the future our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking
statements made by or on behalf of the Company.   
Executive Summary   
Prudential Financial, a financial services leader with approximately $900.7 billion of assets under management as of December 31,
2011, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual
funds, and investment management. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through one of the largest distribution networks in the financial services industry. 
  Industry Trends 
  Our U.S. and international businesses are impacted by
financial markets, economic conditions, regulatory oversight, and a variety of trends that affect the industries where we compete.   
U.S. Businesses   
Financial and Economic Environment.    Our businesses and results of operations are impacted by general
economic and market conditions and are sensitive to the pace of and extent of changes in equity markets, interest rates and real estate valuations, as well as the changes in behavior of individuals and institutions that these changes in economic and
market conditions may cause. Recent years have been affected by adverse global market conditions, and uncertainty continues to be a factor in the market environment. This uncertainty, particularly in the equity markets, has led to, among other
things, increased demand for guaranteed retirement income, fixed income and stable value products, and defined benefit risk transfer solutions.   
Volatile conditions continue to characterize the overall financial markets. The low interest rate environment we have experienced in
recent years has impacted the profitability of certain products we offer as well as returns on the investment portfolio backing our insurance liabilities and equity. Disruptions in the credit markets have also limited sales opportunities in recent
years for certain products we offer and have impacted the cost and implementation of our capital management activities by reducing the availability of financing. Continued high unemployment rates and limited growth in salaries also continue to be
factors impacting certain business drivers, including contributions to defined contribution plans and the costs of group disability claims.   
Regulatory Environment.    Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. The
financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks applicable to our businesses. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act signed into law on July 21, 2010 made comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the U.S. and subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation. In addition, state insurance
laws regulate all aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses and our insurance products are substantially affected by federal and state tax laws. Insurance regulators have begun to implement significant changes in the way in which industry
participants must determine statutory reserves and statutory capital, particularly for products with embedded options and guarantees such as variable annuities, and are considering further potentially significant changes in these requirements for
life insurance products. In addition, there is general uncertainty regarding U.S. taxes both for individuals and corporations in light of the fact that many tax provisions recently enacted or extended will sunset by the end of 2012. In addition, the
recommendations made by the President’s bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform and other deficit reduction panels suggest the need to reform the U.S. Tax Code. Congress has held a number of hearings devoted to tax
reform. Some of those hearings have discussed lowering the tax rates and broadening the base by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. Reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures could make our products less attractive to customers.
It is unclear whether or when Congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the Company and its products. 
  83 


Table of Contents
Demographics.    Income protection, wealth accumulation and the
needs of retiring baby boomers continue to shape the insurance industry. Retirement security is one of the most critical issues in the U.S. for individuals and the investment professionals and institutions that support them. The risk and
responsibility of retirement savings continues to shift to employees, away from the government and employers. Life insurance ownership among U.S. households has reached its lowest point in fifty years, with consumers citing other financial
priorities and cost of insurance as reasons for the lack of coverage.    Competitive Environment.    Our annuities, retirement and asset management businesses operate in a highly competitive environment. For the annuities business, market volatility
in recent years led many companies within the industry to reduce risk in product features and increase costs. However, in 2011, certain of our competitors became more aggressive in product design and pricing, while we implemented modifications to
scale back benefits and increase pricing for certain product features. In spite of this, we believe our current product offerings remain competitively positioned and that our differentiated risk management strategies will continue to provide us with
an attractive risk and profitability profile. All of our new variable annuity sales, as well as a significant portion of our in force business, where an optional living benefit has been elected, include an automatic rebalancing feature, which is a
feature that is valued in the variable annuity market. Our retirement and asset management businesses compete on price, service and investment performance. The full service retirement markets are mature, with few dominant players. We have seen a
trend toward unbundling of the purchase decision related to the recordkeeping and investment offerings, where the variety of available funds and their performance are the key selection criteria of plan sponsors and intermediaries. Additionally,
changes in the regulatory environment have driven more transparent fee disclosures, which have heightened pricing pressures and may accelerate the trend toward unbundling of services. Market disruption and rating agency downgrades have caused some
of our institutional investment product competitors to withdraw from the market, creating significant growth opportunities for us in certain markets, including the investment-only stable value market. The recovery of the equity, fixed income, and
commercial real estate markets has positively impacted asset managers by increasing assets under management and corresponding fee levels. In addition, institutional fixed income managers have generally experienced positive flows as investors have
re-allocated assets into fixed income to reduce risk, including the reduction of risk in pension plans.   
The individual life and group life and disability markets are mature and, due to the large number of competitors, competition is driven
mainly by price and service. The economy has exacerbated pressure on pricing, creating an even greater challenge of maintaining pricing discipline. This has limited growth of our individual life sales, in an industry which has shifted toward
non-proprietary distribution channels, which are more price sensitive than proprietary distribution channels. For group products, rate guarantees have become the industry norm, with rate guarantee durations trending upward, primarily for group life
insurance, as a general industry practice. There is also an increased demand from clients for bundling of products and services to streamline administration and save costs by dealing with fewer carriers. As employers are attempting to control costs
and shift benefit decisions and funding to employees, who continue to value benefits offered in the workplace, employee-pay (voluntary) product offerings and services are becoming increasingly important in the group market. Industry sales of
voluntary products, as well as our own, were up again in 2011 despite the adverse economic conditions.    International Businesses    Financial and Economic Environment.    Our international businesses and the financial results of these operations are impacted by the global economy as well as the financial and
economic conditions in the countries in which we operate. Recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. Similar to our U.S. businesses, interest rates and the pace and extent of changes in rates have impacted the profitability of
certain products we offer by impacting the returns on the investment portfolio backing our insurance liabilities as well as on the equity in the businesses. Our Japanese operations have operated in this environment for an extended period. We are
also subject to financial impacts associated with movements in foreign currency rates, particularly the Japanese yen. The strengthening of the yen has increased the attractiveness of multi-currency denominated products. 
  Regulatory Environment.    Our
international insurance and investments operations are subject to comprehensive local regulation and supervision. It is likely that the recent financial market dislocations will lead 
  84 


Table of Contents

to changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks affecting our international businesses. The Financial Services Agency, the insurance regulator in Japan, has implemented
revisions to the solvency margin requirements that will revise risk charges for certain assets and change the manner in which an insurance company’s core capital is calculated. These changes are effective for the fiscal year ending
March 31, 2012. We anticipate further changes in solvency regulation from jurisdiction to jurisdiction based on regulatory developments in the U.S., the European Union, and recommendations by an international standard setting body for the
insurance regulators, as well as regulatory requirements for those companies deemed to be systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs, in the U.S. or abroad. In addition, local regulations, primarily in Japan, may apply heightened
scrutiny to non-domestic companies. Internationally, regulators are also increasingly adopting measures to provide greater consumer protection and privacy rights. 
  Demographics.    Japan has a
rapidly aging population as well as a large pool of household assets invested in low yielding deposit and savings vehicles. The aging of Japan’s population as well as strains on government pension programs have led to a growing demand for
insurance products with a savings element to meet savings and retirement needs as the population transitions to retirement. The growing demand for retirement oriented products has led to higher premiums with more of a savings component. We are
seeing a similar shift to retirement oriented products in Korea and Taiwan, each of which also has an aging population.   
Competitive Environment.    The life insurance markets in Japan and Korea are mature. We generally compete more
on service provided to the customers than on price. The aging of Japan’s population creates an increasing need for product innovation, introducing insurance products which allow for savings and income as the population transitions to
retirement. The ability to sell through multiple and complementary distribution channels is a competitive advantage. However, competition for sales personnel as well as access to third party distribution channels is intense. 
  Current Developments 
  On February 1, 2011, Prudential Financial completed the
acquisition from American International Group, Inc., or AIG, of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., or “Star”, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, or “Edison”, and certain other AIG subsidiaries (collectively, the “Star and
Edison Businesses”) pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 between Prudential Financial and AIG. The total purchase price was $4,709 million, comprised of $4,213 million in cash and $496 million in assumed third
party debt, substantially all of which is expected to be repaid, over time, with excess capital of the acquired entities. On January 1, 2012, the Star and Edison companies were merged into Gibraltar Life. See “—Results of Operations
for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—International Insurance Division—International Insurance” for more information on this acquisition.   
On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a massive earthquake followed by a tsunami which caused extensive damage and loss of life. Our
results include a pre-tax charge of $61 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 associated primarily with estimated claims from our operations in Japan arising from these events. We have not experienced and do not expect a significant
impact to the valuation of our investments or our ability to operate our Japanese businesses as a result of these events.   
On April 6, 2011, Prudential Financial entered into a stock and asset purchase agreement to sell all of the issued and outstanding
shares of capital stock of its subsidiaries that conduct its Global Commodities Business and certain assets that are primarily used in connection with the Global Commodities Business. This sale was completed on July 1, 2011. The Company
recorded a pre-tax loss on the sale of $18 million. As a result of the sale, we have reflected the results of the Global Commodities Business, including the loss on the sale, as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 
  In June 2011, Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors
authorized the Company to repurchase at management’s discretion up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock through June 2012. As of December 31, 2011, 19.8 million shares were repurchased under this authorization at a total
cost of $999.5 million. The timing and amount of any additional share repurchases will be determined by management based upon market conditions and other considerations, and the repurchases may be effected in the open market, through derivative,
accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through prearranged trading plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Exchange Act. 
  85 


Table of Contents
On October 20, 2011, the Company announced it had entered into an agreement to sell its
stake in Afore XXI, S.A. de C.V., a private pension fund manager in Mexico, to Banorte, a major bank based in Mexico. This sale was completed on December 2, 2011. We recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of $96 million in 2011 reflected in
adjusted operating income of our International Insurance segment.    On November 8, 2011, Prudential Financial declared an annual dividend for 2011 of $1.45 per share of Common Stock, reflecting an increase of approximately 26% from the 2010 Common Stock dividend.
   On December 6, 2011, the Company sold its
real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services businesses, which was comprised of Prudential Real Estate and Relocation Services, Inc. (“PRERS”) and its subsidiaries, to Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. (“Brookfield”).
We retained ownership of a financing subsidiary of PRERS with debt and equity investments in a limited number of real estate brokerage franchises. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of $49 million. As a result of the sale, we have
reflected the results of the real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services businesses, including the pre-tax gain on the sale, as a divested business for all periods presented.    Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Prudential Financial, as a savings and
loan holding company, became subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”), effective as of July 21, 2011. However, we intend to limit the operations
of Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB to trust services prior to effectiveness of the Volcker rule on July 21, 2012, permitting us to continue our institutional asset management business without the restrictions that might otherwise apply
under the Volcker Rule. Such limitation will allow us to deregister as a savings and loan holding company. See “Business—Regulation” for more information regarding the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company. 
  Our financial condition and results of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2011 reflect the following:   


 
•
 
 Net income of our Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $3,531 million
compared to $2,714 million for 2010.   


 
•
 
 Pre-tax net realized investment gains and related charges and adjustments of the Financial Services Businesses were $685 million of net gains in 2011
primarily reflecting the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on certain assets and liabilities for which we economically hedge the foreign currency exposure and net increases in the market value of derivatives used to manage
investment portfolio duration. These gains were partially offset by other-than-temporary impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities and net losses related to the embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain of
our variable annuity contracts.   


 
•
 
 Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $10.493 billion as of
December 31, 2011, compared to net unrealized gains of $5.726 billion as of December 31, 2010. Gross unrealized gains increased from $8.826 billion as of December 31, 2010 to $14.749 billion as of December 31, 2011 and gross
unrealized losses increased from $3.100 billion to $4.256 billion for the same periods. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Closed Block Business amounted to $3.876 billion as of December 31, 2011, compared
to net unrealized gains of $1.671 billion as of December 31, 2010.   


 
•
 
 Individual Annuity total account values were $113.5 billion as of December 31, 2011. Gross sales were $20.3 billion in 2011 compared to $21.8
billion in 2010, and net sales were $13.1 billion in 2011 compared to $14.6 billion in 2010.   


 
•
 
 Full Service Retirement account values were $139.4 billion as of December 31, 2011. Institutional Investment Products account values reached a
record high of $90.1 billion as of December 31, 2011, driven by $21.6 billion of net additions in 2011.   


 
•
 
 Asset Management total third party institutional and retail net flows were $20.2 billion in 2011 compared to $35.0 billion in 2010, contributing to the
segment’s assets under management of $619.1 billion as of December 31, 2011. 
  86 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 International Insurance constant dollar basis annualized new business premiums were a record high of $3,040 million in 2011, including $728 million
from the acquired Star and Edison Businesses, compared to $1,870 million in 2010.   


 
•
 
 Individual Life annualized new business premiums were $278 million in 2011, compared to $260 million in 2010. 
 


 
•
 
 Group Insurance annualized new business premiums were a record high of $690 million in 2011, compared to $607 million in 2010.
  


 
•
 
 As of December 31, 2011, Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, had cash and short-term investments of $4.944 billion.
   Outlook 
  Management expects that results in 2012 will continue to
reflect the quality of our individual businesses and their prospects, as well as our overall business mix and effective capital management. In 2012, we continue to focus on long-term strategic positioning and growth opportunities, including the
following:   


 
•
 
 U.S. Retirement and Investment Management Market.    We seek to capitalize on the growing need of baby boomers for products
that provide guaranteed income for longer retirement periods. In addition, we continue to focus on our clients’ increasing needs for retirement income security given volatility in the financial markets. We also seek to provide products that
respond to the needs of plan sponsors to manage risk and control their benefit costs.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Insurance Market.    We continue to focus on writing high-quality business and expect to continue to benefit from
expansion of our distribution channels and deepening our relationships with third-party distributors. We also seek to capitalize on opportunities for additional voluntary life purchases in the group insurance market, as institutional clients are
focused on controlling their benefit costs.   


 
•
 
 International Markets.    We continue to concentrate on deepening our presence in the markets in which we currently operate,
such as Japan, and expanding our distribution capabilities, including through the integration of the acquired Star and Edison Businesses. We seek to capitalize on opportunities arising in international markets as changing demographics and public
policy have resulted in a growing demand for retirement income products. 
  87 


Table of Contents
Results of Operations 
  We analyze performance of the segments and Corporate and
Other operations of the Financial Services Businesses using a measure called adjusted operating income. See “—Consolidated Results of Operations—Segment Measures” for a discussion of adjusted operating income and its use as a
measure of segment operating performance.    Shown
below are the contributions of each segment and Corporate and Other operations to our adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income of our segments and Corporate
and Other operations to income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Adjusted operating income before income taxes for segments of the Financial Services Businesses:
  



 



 




 Individual Annuities
  
$
713
  
 
$
1,046
  
 
$
 757
  

 Retirement
  
 
598
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
494
  

 Asset Management
  
 
659
  
 
 
487
  
 
 
55
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
  
 
1,970
  
 
 
2,105
  
 
 
1,306
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Individual Life
  
 
517
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
562
  

 Group Insurance
  
 
208
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
331
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
  
 
725
  
 
 
715
  
 
 
893
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 International Insurance
  
 
2,705
  
 
 
2,085
  
 
 
1,868
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total International Insurance Division
  
 
2,705
  
 
 
2,085
  
 
 
1,868
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Corporate and Other
  
 
(1,127
) 
 
 
(923
) 
 
 
(779
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted operating income before income taxes for the Financial Services Businesses
  
 
4,273
  
 
 
3,982
  
 
 
3,288
  

 Reconciling Items:
  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments
  
 
2,521
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
(1,216
) 

 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
(1,836
) 
 
 
(178
) 
 
 
(492
) 

 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net
  
 
223
  
 
 
501
  
 
 
1,601
  

 Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes
  
 
(123
) 
 
 
(631
) 
 
 
(899
) 

 Divested businesses
  
 
54
  
 
 
(25
) 
 
 
2,086
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
(192
) 
 
 
(98
) 
 
 
(2,364
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services
Businesses
  
 
4,920
  
 
 
3,667
  
 
 
2,004
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business
  
 
197
  
 
 
725
  
 
 
(480
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint
ventures
  
$
5,117
  
 
$
4,392
  
 
$
1,524
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Results for 2011 presented
above reflect the following:   


 
•
 
 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for the Financial Services Businesses
for 2011 was $4,920 million, compared to $3,667 million for 2010. Adjusted operating income before income taxes for the Financial Services Businesses for 2011 was $4,273 million, compared to $3,982 million for 2010. 
 


 
•
 
 Individual Annuities segment results for 2011 decreased in comparison to 2010 primarily reflecting the impact of adjustments to the amortization of
deferred policy acquisition and other costs and to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, which were unfavorable in 2011 and favorable in 2010. These adjustments were primarily
driven by the impact of market performance on the estimated profitability of the business, as well as the impact of annual reviews and updates of assumptions and updates to reflect current period experience. Excluding these items, results increased
in comparison to the prior year, primarily reflecting higher fee income resulting from the impact of positive net flows on variable annuity account values. 
  88 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Retirement segment results for 2011 increased in comparison to 2010. The increase reflects higher fee income due to higher fee-based investment-only
stable value account values in our institutional investment products business primarily from net additions and an increase in average full service fee-based retirement account values resulting primarily from market appreciation. This increase was
partially offset by lower net investment spread results, higher general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, and the unfavorable impact of annual reviews and updates of the assumptions used in amortizing deferred policy acquisition
costs and value of business acquired.   


 
•
 
 Asset Management segment results improved in 2011 in comparison to 2010 primarily from improved results from the segment’s commercial mortgage and
strategic investing activities and increased asset management fees.   


 
•
 
 Individual Life segment results for 2011 increased in comparison to 2010 primarily driven by a greater benefit in 2011 from annual updates of our
actuarial assumptions resulting in lower amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, and a net decrease in insurance reserves. The 2011 benefit was $75 million, compared to a benefit
of $52 million in 2010. Absent the impact of these annual reviews, results for 2011 decreased $6 million from 2010 primarily due to an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue
reserves, largely reflecting the impact of equity markets on separate account fund performance in the respective periods, partially offset by the impact of less unfavorable mortality experience. 
 


 
•
 
 Group Insurance segment results declined in 2011, compared to 2010 primarily due to less favorable group disability underwriting results and higher
expenses, largely offset by more favorable group life underwriting results.   


 
•
 
 International Insurance segment results for 2011 improved from 2010. Results from the segment’s Life Planner operations improved in 2011,
reflecting the continued growth of our Japanese Life Planner operation and lower expenses, partially offset by claims resulting from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami and less favorable mortality experience. Results from the segment’s
Gibraltar Life and Other operations reflect the comparative impact of a $237 million benefit to 2011 results compared to a $66 million benefit to 2010 resulting from partial sales of our investment, through a consortium, in China Pacific Group. Also
contributing to the increase in adjusted income was $354 million of earnings from operations of the acquired Star and Edison Businesses, excluding claims resulting from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, and a $96 million gain on sale of our
investment in Afore XXI. These benefits were partially offset by $213 million of Star and Edison acquisition- and integration-related expenses and $49 million of charges primarily resulting from claims associated with the earthquake and tsunami in
Japan. The remainder of the improvements in results compared to the prior year quarter came primarily from a greater contribution from investment results, reflecting business growth including higher earnings from our fixed annuities business and
from expanding bank channel sales of protection products.   


 
•
 
 Corporate and Other operations resulted in an increased loss for 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to a higher level of expenses in other
corporate activities, including a $93 million increase in expenses for estimated payments arising from use of new Social Security Master Death File matching criteria to identify deceased policyholders and contractholders and a $20 million charge
related to a voluntary contribution to an insurance industry insolvency fund, related to Executive Life Insurance Company of New York.   


 
•
 
 Income from continuing operations before income taxes in the Closed Block Business decreased $528 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily
reflecting an increase in the policyholder dividend obligation expense.    Accounting Policies & Pronouncements    Application of Critical Accounting Estimates    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, requires the application of accounting policies that
often involve a significant degree of judgment. Management, on an ongoing basis, reviews estimates and assumptions used in the 
  89 


Table of Contents

preparation of financial statements. If management determines that modifications in assumptions and estimates are appropriate given current facts and circumstances, results of operations and
financial position as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements could change significantly.    The following sections discuss the accounting policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions and require
management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments.   
Deferred Policy Acquisition and Other Costs  
  We capitalize costs that vary with and are related primarily
to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts. These costs primarily include commissions, costs of policy issuance and underwriting, and variable field office expenses that are incurred in producing new business. See Note 2
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the new authoritative guidance adopted effective January 1, 2012, regarding which costs relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify for deferral. We also
defer costs associated with sales inducements related to our variable and fixed annuity contracts primarily within our Individual Annuities segment. Sales inducements are amounts that are credited to the policyholder’s account balance as an
inducement to purchase the contract. For additional information about sales inducements, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We amortize these deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC, and deferred sales inducements, or DSI, over
the expected lives of the contracts, based on our estimates of the level and timing of gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums, depending on the type of contract. As described in more detail below, in calculating DAC and DSI amortization, we
are required to make assumptions about investment returns, mortality, persistency, and other items that impact our estimates of the level and timing of gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums. As of December 31, 2011, DAC and DSI in our
Financial Services Businesses were $16.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, and DAC in our Closed Block Business was $667 million.   
Amortization methodologies   
DAC associated with the traditional participating products of our Closed Block Business is amortized over the expected lives of those
contracts in proportion to estimated gross margins. Gross margins consider premiums, investment returns, benefit claims, costs for policy administration, changes in reserves, and dividends to policyholders. We evaluate our estimates of future gross
margins and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of actual gross margins and changes in our expected future gross margins. We also evaluate the recoverability of the DAC
balance at the end of each reporting period. These DAC adjustments generally have not created significant volatility in our results of operations since many of the factors that affect gross margins are also included in the determination of our
dividends to these policyholders and, during most years, the Closed Block has recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense in “Policyholders’ dividends,” for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected
cumulative earnings as determined at the time of demutualization. However, if actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense, changes
in gross margins and DAC amortization would result in a net impact to the Closed Block Business results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $762 million.
   DAC associated with the non-participating whole
life and term life policies of our Individual Life segment and the non-participating whole life, term life, endowment and health policies of our International Insurance segment is amortized in proportion to gross premiums. We evaluate the
recoverability of our DAC related to these policies as part of our premium deficiency testing. If a premium deficiency exists, we reduce DAC by the amount of the deficiency or to zero through a charge to current period earnings. If the deficiency is
more than the DAC balance, we reduce the DAC balance to zero and increase the reserve for future policy benefits by the excess, by means of a charge to current period earnings. Generally, we do not expect significant deterioration in future
experience, and therefore do not expect significant writedowns to the related DAC.    DAC and DSI associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life and International Insurance segments and the variable and fixed annuity contracts of our Individual Annuities
and International Insurance segments are amortized over the expected life of these policies in proportion to total gross 
  90 


Table of Contents

profits. DAC and DSI are also subject to recoverability testing which we perform at the end of each reporting period to ensure that each balance does not exceed the present value of estimated
gross profits. In calculating gross profits, we consider mortality, persistency, and other elements as well as rates of return on investments associated with these contracts and the costs related to our guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed
minimum income benefits. Total gross profits include both actual experience and estimates of gross profits for future periods. We regularly evaluate and adjust the related DAC and DSI balances with a corresponding charge or credit to current period
earnings for the effects of our actual gross profits and changes in our assumptions regarding estimated future gross profits. Adjustments to the DAC and DSI balances include the impact to our estimate of total gross profits of the annual review of
assumptions, our quarterly adjustments for current period experience, and our quarterly adjustments for market performance. Each of these adjustments is further discussed below in “—Annual assumptions review and quarterly
adjustments.”    In addition to the gross
profit components mentioned above, we also include the impact of the embedded derivatives associated with certain of the optional living benefit features of our variable annuity contracts and related hedging activities in actual gross profits used
as the basis for calculating current period amortization. Prior to the third quarter of 2010, we also included the impact of these embedded derivatives and related hedging activities, excluding the impact of the market-perceived risk of our own
non-performance, in our estimate of total gross profits used to determine the DAC and DSI amortization rates. In the third quarter of 2010, we revised our hedging strategy, which resulted in a change in how certain gross profit components are used
to determine the DAC and DSI amortization rates. Prior to the third quarter of 2010 our hedging strategy sought to generally match the sensitivities of the embedded derivative liability as defined by U.S. GAAP, excluding the impact of the
market-perceived risk of our own non-performance, with capital market derivatives. Under our current hedging strategy, our hedge target continues to be grounded in a U.S. GAAP/capital markets valuation framework but incorporates two modifications to
the U.S. GAAP valuation assumptions. We add a credit spread to the U.S. GAAP risk-free rate of return assumption used to estimate future growth of bond investments in the customer separate account funds to account for the fact that the underlying
customer separate account funds which support these living benefits are invested in assets that contain risk. We also adjust our volatility assumption to remove certain risk margins embedded in the valuation technique used to determine the fair
value of the embedded derivative liability under U.S. GAAP, as we believe the increase in the liability driven by these margins is temporary and does not reflect the economic value of the liability. For a discussion of the change in our hedging
strategy and the results of our hedging program, see “—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities—Net impact of
embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions.”    As mentioned above, this change in our hedging strategy also led to a change in the components included in our estimate of total gross profits used to determine the DAC and DSI amortization rates.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2010, management’s best estimate of the total gross profits associated with these optional living benefit features and related hedge positions is based on the updated hedge target definition as described above.
However, total gross profits for these purposes includes the difference between the change in the value of the hedge target liability and the change in the asset value only to the extent this net amount is determined by management to be
other-than-temporary, as well as the impact of assumption updates on the valuation of the hedge target liability. The determination of whether the difference between the change in the value of the hedge target liability and the change in the asset
value is other-than-temporary is based on an evaluation of the effectiveness of the hedge program. Management generally expects differences between the value of the hedge target liability and asset value to be temporary and to reverse over time.
Such differences would not be included in total gross profits for purposes of determining the amortization rates. However, based on the effectiveness of the hedge program, management may determine that the difference between the value of the hedge
target liability and the asset value is other-than-temporary and would include that amount in our best estimate of total gross profits for setting the DAC and DSI amortization rates.    Management may also decide to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from the hedge target definition,
given overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing market conditions. The impact from temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from the hedge target definition, as well as the results of the capital hedge program we began in the
second quarter of 2009 and modified in 2010, are not considered in calculating total gross profits used to determine amortization rates nor included in actual gross profits used in calculating current period amortization as these items are related
to capital considerations and are not directly related to product profits. 
  91 


Table of Contents
Annual assumptions review and quarterly adjustments 
  Annually, during the third quarter, we perform a
comprehensive review of the assumptions used in estimating gross profits for future periods. Although we review these assumptions on an ongoing basis throughout the year, we generally only update these assumptions and adjust the DAC and DSI balances
during the third quarter, unless a material change that we feel is indicative of a long term trend is observed in an interim period. Over the last several years, the Company’s most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to
expected future gross profits and the amortization of DAC and DSI have been related to lapse experience and other contractholder behavior assumptions, mortality, and revisions to expected future rates of returns on investments. We expect these
assumptions to be the ones most likely to cause potential significant changes in the future. The impact on our results of operations of changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and we are unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact
over time.    The quarterly adjustments for current
period experience referred to above reflect the impact of differences between actual gross profits for a given period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for that period. To the extent each period’s actual experience differs
from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change. In these cases, we recognize a cumulative adjustment to all previous periods’ amortization, also referred to as an experience true-up adjustment.
   The quarterly adjustments for market performance
referred to above reflect the impact of changes to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance. A significant portion of gross profits for our variable annuity contracts and, to a lesser degree, our variable life policies
are dependent upon the total rate of return on assets held in separate account investment options. This rate of return influences the fees we earn, costs we incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed minimum income benefit
features related to our variable annuity contracts, as well as other sources of profit. Returns that are higher than our expectations for a given period produce higher than expected account balances, which increase the fees we earn and decrease the
costs we incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed minimum income benefit features related to our variable annuity contracts. The impact of increased fees results in higher expected future gross profits and lower DAC and DSI
amortization for the period. The opposite occurs when returns are lower than our expectations. The changes in future expected gross profits are used to recognize a cumulative adjustment to all prior periods’ amortization. 
  The near-term future rate of return assumptions used in
evaluating DAC and DSI for our domestic variable annuity and variable life insurance products are derived using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and
initially adjust future projected returns over the next four years (the “near-term”) so that the assets are projected to grow at the long-term expected rate of return for the entire period. Unless there is a sustained interim deviation,
our long-term expected rate of return assumptions are generally not impacted by short-term market fluctuations. If the near-term projected future rate of return is greater than our near-term maximum future rate of return, we use our maximum future
rate of return. The following table sets forth the weighted average rate of return assumptions, per annum, for our domestic variable annuity and variable life insurance businesses as of December 31, 2011. 
 












 
  
VariableAnnuities
 
 
VariableLife Insurance
 

 Long-term equity expected rate of return
  
 
9.2
% 
 
 
9.2
% 

 Fixed income expected rate of return(1)
  
 
4.3
% 
 
 
5.7
% 

 Long-term blended expected rate of return(2)
  
 
7.4
% 
 
 
7.7
% 





 Near-term maximum equity rate of return
  
 
13.0
% 
 
 
13.0
% 

 Fixed income expected rate of return(1)
  
 
4.3
% 
 
 
5.7
% 

 Blended maximum expected rate of return(2)
  
 
9.9
% 
 
 
9.8
% 





 Near-term mean reversion blended rate of return(3)
  
 
8.7
% 
 
 
9.8
% 
  


(1)
 
Fixed income expected rate of return for our variable annuities business is a levelized rate, blending current rates and long-term expected returns. Fixed income
expected rate of return for our variable life insurance business is the long-term expected return, as a blend does not materially affect results due to the long duration of the liability. 


(2)
 
Blend is based on the long-term expected distribution of funds between equity and fixed income funds. 


(3)
 
As of December 31, 2011, more than half of our variable annuities business and the majority of our variable life insurance business had near-term mean reversion
rates of return based on the blended maximum expected rate of return assumption. 
  92 


Table of Contents
The weighted average rate of return assumptions reflected in the table above are determined
independently for variable annuities and variable life insurance and consider many factors specific to each business, including actual rates of return, liability durations, asset allocations and other factors. We update the rates of return and our
estimate of total gross profits each quarter to reflect the result of the reversion to the mean approach. These market performance related adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits result in cumulative adjustments to prior amortization,
reflecting the application of the new required rate of amortization to all prior periods’ gross profits. The new required rate of amortization is also applied prospectively to future gross profits in calculating amortization in future periods.
   Sensitivity 
  For the variable and universal life policies of our
Individual Life segment, a significant portion of our gross profits is derived from mortality margins. As a result, our estimates of future gross profits are significantly influenced by our mortality assumptions. Our mortality assumptions represent
our expected claims experience over the life of these policies and are developed based on Company experience or standard industry tables. Unless a material change in mortality experience that we feel is indicative of a long term trend is observed in
an interim period, we generally update our mortality assumptions annually in the third quarter. Updates to our mortality assumptions in future periods could have a significant adverse or favorable effect on the results of our operations in the
Individual Life segment.    The DAC balance
associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment as of December 31, 2011 was $2.5 billion. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of that DAC balance relative to our future
mortality assumptions by quantifying the adjustments that would be required, assuming both an increase and decrease in our future mortality rate by 1%. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our
expectations regarding future mortality assumptions, it is a near-term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our mortality
assumptions on the DAC balance, with no changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, future rate of return, or expenses included in our evaluation of DAC, and does not reflect changes in reserves, such as the unearned revenue reserve, which
would partially offset the adjustments to the DAC balance reflected below. The impact of the unearned revenue reserve is discussed in more detail below in “—Policyholder Liabilities.” 
 








 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Increase/(Reduction) in DAC(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Decrease in future mortality by 1%
  
$
46
  

 Increase in future mortality by 1%
  
$
(46
) 
  


(1)
 
The sensitivity balances reflected in the table are based on DAC accounting guidance as of December 31, 2011. As noted previously, new authoritative guidance was
adopted effective January 1, 2012, which will reduce our DAC balances and corresponding sensitivities.   
For a discussion of DAC adjustments related to our Individual Life segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, see
“—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division—Individual Life.” 
  For variable annuity contracts, DAC and DSI are more
sensitive to changes in our future rate of return assumptions due primarily to the significant portion of our gross profits that is dependent upon the total rate of return on assets held in separate account investment options, and the shorter
average life of the contracts. The DAC and DSI balances associated with our domestic variable annuity contracts were $2.7 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. The following table provides a demonstration of the
sensitivity of each of these balances relative to our future rate of return assumptions by quantifying the adjustments to each balance that would be required assuming both an increase and decrease in our future rate of return by 100 basis points.
The sensitivity includes an increase and decrease of 100 basis points to both the near-term future rate of return assumptions used over the next four years, and the long-term expected rate of return used thereafter. While the information below is
for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future rate of return assumptions, it is a near-term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information
considers only the direct effect of changes in our future rate of return on the 
  93 


Table of Contents

DAC and DSI balances and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, mortality, or expenses included in our evaluation of DAC and DSI. Further, this information does not reflect
changes in reserves, such as the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and optional living benefit features of our variable annuity products, or the impact that changes in such reserves may have on the DAC and DSI balances. 
 












 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Increase/(Reduction) in DAC(1)
 
 
Increase/(Reduction) in DSI
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Decrease in future rate of return by 100 basis points
  
$
(67
) 
 
$
(27
) 

 Increase in future rate of return by 100 basis points
  
$
62
  
 
$
26
  
  


(1)
 
The sensitivity balances reflected in the table are based on DAC accounting guidance as of December 31, 2011. As noted previously, new authoritative guidance was
adopted effective January 1, 2012, which will reduce our DAC balances and corresponding sensitivities.   
For a discussion of DAC and DSI adjustments related to our Individual Annuities segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, see “—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.”    Value of Business Acquired 
  In addition to DAC and DSI, we also recognize an asset for
value of business acquired, or VOBA. VOBA includes an explicit adjustment to reflect the cost of capital attributable to the acquired insurance contracts, and represents an adjustment to the stated value of inforce insurance contract liabilities to
present them at fair value, determined as of the acquisition date. As of December 31, 2011, VOBA was $3,845 million, and included $3,490 million related to the acquisition from AIG of the Star and Edison Businesses on February 1, 2011. See
Note 3 for additional information on the acquisition from AIG of the Star and Edison Businesses. The remaining $355 million relates to previously-acquired traditional life, deferred annuity, defined contribution and defined benefit businesses. VOBA
is amortized over the effective life of the acquired contracts. For additional information about VOBA including details on items included in our estimates of future cash flows for the various acquired businesses and its bases for amortization, see
Note 2 and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. VOBA is also subject to recoverability testing at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the balance does not exceed the present value of anticipated gross profits. Based on this
recoverability testing, in 2009 we impaired the entire remaining VOBA asset related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate. For additional information regarding this charge, see “—Results of Operations for Financial
Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.”   
Goodwill   
As of December 31, 2011, our goodwill balance of $888 million is reflected in the following four reporting units: $444 million
related to our Retirement Full Service business, $238 million related to our Asset Management business, $184 million related to our International Insurance Gibraltar business and $22 million related to our International Insurance Life Planner
business.    We test goodwill for impairment on an
annual basis as of December 31 of each year and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the potential for impairment is more likely than not. The test is performed at the reporting unit level which is equal
to or one level below our operating segments.   
Accounting guidance allows a reporting unit to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if its goodwill is impaired. Factors such as
macroeconomic conditions; industry and market considerations; cost factors; and others are used to assess the validity of the goodwill. If it is determined that the reporting unit’s fair value is not more likely than not below its carrying
amount (equity attributed to a business to support its risk), the test is complete and no impairment is recorded. If this assertion cannot be made, a quantitative analysis must be performed. A reporting unit may bypass the qualitative analysis and
begin their impairment analysis with the quantitative calculation. This option is unconditional and a reporting unit may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. 
  94 


Table of Contents
The quantitative analysis consists of two steps. Step 1 requires that the fair value of the
reporting unit be calculated and compared to the reporting unit’s carrying value. If the fair value is greater than the carrying value, it is concluded there is no impairment and the analysis is complete. If the fair value is less than the
carrying value, Step 2 of the process is completed to determine the amount of impairment, if any. Step 2 utilizes business combination acquisition accounting guidance and requires the fair value calculation of all individual assets and liabilities
of the reporting unit (excluding goodwill, but including any unrecognized intangible assets). The net fair value of assets less liabilities is then compared to the reporting unit’s total fair value as calculated in Step 1. The excess of fair
value over the net asset value equals the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is then compared to the carrying value of goodwill to determine the reporting unit’s goodwill impairment loss, if any. 
  A qualitative assessment was performed by International
Insurance’s Gibraltar business. After consideration of the relevant macro economic factors, as well as conditions specific to the insurance industry and the reporting unit, it was determined that the fair value of the reporting unit was not
more likely than not below its carrying value and accordingly, there was no impairment of goodwill.    The International Insurance’s Life Planner business and the Asset Management segment elected to bypass the qualitative assessment and complete their impairment analysis using an earnings multiple
approach. The earnings multiple approach indicates the value of a business based on comparison to publicly-traded comparable companies in similar lines of business. Each comparable company is analyzed based on various factors, including, but not
limited to, financial risk, size, geographic diversification, profitability, adequate financial data, and an actively traded stock price. A multiple of price to earnings is developed for the comparable companies using independent analysts’
consensus estimates for each company’s 2012 forecasted earnings. The multiples are then aggregated and a mean and median multiple is calculated for the group. The lower of the mean or median multiple is then applied to the 2012 forecasted
earnings of the reporting unit to develop a value. A control premium is then added to determine a total estimated fair value for the reporting unit.   
The Retirement Full Service business also elected to bypass the qualitative assessment and complete their impairment analysis using a
discounted cash flow approach. The discounted cash flow approach calculates the value of a business by applying a discount rate reflecting the market expected weighted average rate of return to the projected future cash flows of the reporting unit.
These projected future cash flows were based on our internal forecasts, an expected growth rate and a terminal value. The weighted average rate of return, or WARR, represents the required rate of return on total capitalization. It is comprised of a
required rate of return on equity of a company and the current tax-affected cost of debt, which are then weighted by the relative percentages of equity and debt assumed in the capital structure. To estimate the return on equity, we applied the
Capital Asset Pricing Model, or CAPM. The CAPM is a generally accepted method for estimating an equity investor’s return requirement, and hence a company’s cost of equity capital. CAPM is determined by beginning with the long-term
risk-free rate of return then applying adjustments that consider the equity risk premium required for large company common stock investments as well as company specific adjustments to address volatility, small company premiums and other risks
particular to a specific company. The WARR calculation is applied to a group of companies considered peers of the reporting unit to develop a weighted average rate of return for the peer group which is then used to estimate the market expected
weighted average rate of return for the reporting unit. This process resulted in a discount rate of 12% which was then applied to the expected future cash flows of the Retirement Full Service business to estimate its fair value. 
  After completion of Step 1 of the quantitative tests, it was
determined that fair values exceeded the carrying amounts for each of the three reporting units and it was concluded there was no impairment as of December 31, 2011. The Asset Management, International Insurance’s Life Planner and
Retirement Full Service businesses had estimated fair values that exceeded their carrying amounts by 425%, 27% and 5%, respectively.   
Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a subjective process that involves the use of estimates and judgments. The Retirement Full
Service business’ quantitative test is sensitive to a number of key assumptions. For example, a decline in its forecasted cash flows of 4%, an increase in the discount rate above 12.5%, or an increase in the equity attributed to support this
business (representing the carrying value) of 5% could result in failing Step 1 of the quantitative test and therefore require a Step 2 assessment. Regarding all four reporting units 
  95 


Table of Contents

tested, further market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, including discount rates, interest rates and growth rate assumptions or increases in the level of
equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income.   
As of December 31, 2011, the Company experienced a market capitalization that was below its consolidated book value. An analysis was
performed in order to confirm the reasonableness of the reporting unit fair values calculated in the goodwill impairment tests discussed above. The Company considered the fact that certain reporting units that do not contain goodwill have lower
estimated fair values due to the nature of the risks in their businesses and also considered the negative impact of our Corporate & Other operations on the overall fair value of the Company. The Company also considered the amount of control
premium necessary to estimate a fair value equal to book value. When comparing this control premium to actual control premiums experienced in recent insurance company acquisitions, as well as the impact of the lower market environment which can
increase industry control premiums, the Company concluded that the calculated control premium reflected an amount which we believe is within a range of reasonableness. Based on these factors, the Company concluded that the reporting unit fair values
calculated in the goodwill impairment test were reasonable.   
Valuation of Investments, Including Derivatives, and the Recognition of Other-than-Temporary Impairments 
  Our investment portfolio consists of public and private
fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities, other invested assets, and derivative financial instruments. Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange
rates, financial indices or the values of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments we generally use include swaps, futures, forwards and options and may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market. We are also
party to financial instruments that contain derivative instruments that are “embedded” in the financial instruments. Management believes the following accounting policies related to investments, including derivatives, are most dependent on
the application of estimates and assumptions. Each of these policies is discussed further within other relevant disclosures related to the investments and derivatives, as referenced below.   


 
•
 
 Valuation of investments, including derivatives 
 


 
•
 
 Recognition of other-than-temporary impairments 
 


 
•
 
 Determination of the valuation allowance for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans 
  We present our investments classified as available-for-sale,
including fixed maturity and equity securities, our investments classified as trading, such as our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, our derivatives, and our embedded derivatives at fair value in the statements of financial
position. For additional information regarding the key estimates and assumptions surrounding the determination of fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities, as well as derivative instruments, embedded derivatives and other investments, see
Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “—Valuation of Assets and Liabilities—Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities.”   
For our investments classified as available-for-sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in
“Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net,” a separate component of equity. For our investments classified as trading, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within “Asset management fees and other income.” In
addition, investments classified as available-for-sale, as well as those classified as held-to-maturity, are subject to impairment reviews to identify when a decline in value is other-than-temporary. For a discussion of our policies regarding
other-than-temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording other-than-temporary impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “—Realized
Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—General Account Investments—Fixed Maturity Securities—Other-than-Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities” and “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses
and General Account Investments—General Account Investments—Equity Securities—Other-than-Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities.”   
Commercial mortgage and other loans are carried primarily at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees
and expenses and unamortized premiums or discounts and a valuation allowance for losses. For a discussion of our policies regarding the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans see “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses
and General Account Investments—General Account Investments—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality.” 
  96 


Table of Contents
Policyholder Liabilities 
  Future Policy Benefit Reserves, other than Unpaid Claims
and Claim Adjustment Expenses    We establish
reserves for future policy benefits to, or on behalf of, policyholders in the same period in which the policy is issued. These reserves relate primarily to the traditional participating whole life policies of our Closed Block Business and the
non-participating whole life, term life, and life contingent structured settlement and group annuity products of our Financial Services Businesses.   
The future policy benefit reserves for the traditional participating life insurance products of our Closed Block Business, which as of
December 31, 2011, represented 31% of our total future policy benefit reserves are determined using the net level premium method as prescribed by U.S. GAAP. Under this method, the future policy benefit reserves are accrued as a level proportion
of the premium paid by the policyholder. In applying this method, we use mortality assumptions to determine our expected future benefits and expected future premiums, and apply an interest rate to determine the present value of both the expected
future benefit payments and the expected future premiums. The mortality assumptions used are based on data from the standard industry mortality tables that were used to determine the cash surrender value of the policies, and the interest rates used
are the contractually guaranteed interest rates used to calculate the cash surrender value of the policies. Gains or losses in our results of operations resulting from deviations in actual experience compared to the experience assumed in
establishing our reserves for this business are recognized in the determination of our annual dividends to these policyholders. These gains or losses generally have not created significant volatility in our results of operations since, during most
years, the Closed Block has recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense in “Policyholders’ dividends,” for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings as determined at the time of
demutualization. However, if actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense, these gains or losses could result in greater volatility
in the Closed Block Business results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $762 million. 
  The future policy benefit reserves for our International
Insurance segment and Individual Life segment, which as of December 31, 2011, represented 55% of our total future policy benefit reserves combined, relate primarily to non-participating whole life and term life products and endowment contracts,
and are determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as the present value of expected future benefits to, or on behalf of, policyholders plus the present value of future maintenance expenses less the present value of future net premiums. The expected
future benefits and expenses are determined using assumptions about mortality, lapse, and maintenance expense. Reserve assumptions are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the policy is issued or acquired with provisions for the risk of
adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium deficiency tests using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these best estimate
assumptions are greater than the net U.S. GAAP liabilities (i.e., reserves net of any DAC asset), the existing net U.S. GAAP liabilities are adjusted by first reducing the DAC asset by the amount of the deficiency or to zero through a charge to
current period earnings. If the deficiency is more than the DAC balance, we then increase the reserve by the excess, by means of a charge to current period earnings. Our best estimate assumptions are determined by product group. Mortality
assumptions are generally based on the Company’s historical experience or standard industry tables, as applicable; our expense assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest
rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. Unless a material change in mortality experience is observed in an interim period that we feel is indicative of a long term trend, we generally update our mortality
assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. Generally, we do not expect our mortality trends to change significantly in the short-term and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long-term.
   The reserves for future policy benefits of our
Retirement segment, which as of December 31, 2011 represented 10% of our total future policy benefit reserves, relate to our non-participating life contingent group annuity and structured settlement products. These reserves are generally
determined as the present value of expected future benefits and expenses based on assumptions about mortality, retirement, maintenance expense, and interest rates. Reserves are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the contract is issued
with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium 
  97 


Table of Contents

deficiency testing by product group using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these assumptions are greater
than the existing reserves, the existing reserves are adjusted to the greater amount. Our best estimate assumptions are determined by product group. Our mortality and retirement assumptions are based on Company or industry experience; our expense
assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. Although we review our mortality and retirement
assumptions on an ongoing basis throughout the year, we generally only update these assumptions annually during the third quarter unless a material change in mortality or retirement experience is observed in an interim period that we feel is
indicative of a long term trend. Generally, we do not expect our actual mortality or retirement trends to change significantly in the short-term and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long-term.
   The remaining 4% of the reserves for future
policy benefits as of December 31, 2011 represented reserves for the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and optional living benefit features of the variable annuity products in our Individual Annuities segment, and group life
and disability and long-term care benefits in our Group Insurance segment. The optional living benefits are primarily accounted for as embedded derivatives, with fair values calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to
customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. For additional information regarding the valuation of these optional living benefit features, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and “—Valuation of Assets and Liabilities—Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities—Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features.” 
  In establishing reserves for GMDBs and guaranteed minimum
income benefits (“GMIB”s) related to variable annuity contracts, we must make estimates and assumptions about the timing of annuitization, contract lapses and contractholder mortality, as well as interest rates and equity market returns.
Assumptions relating to contractholder behavior, such as the timing of annuitization and contract lapses, are based on our experience by contract group, and vary by product type and year of issuance. Our dynamic lapse rate assumption applies a
different lapse rate on a contract by contract basis based on a comparison of the GMDB or GMIB and the current policyholder account value as well as other factors such as the applicability of any surrender charges. In-the-money contracts are those
with a GMDB or GMIB in excess of the current policyholder account value. Since in-the-money contracts are less likely to lapse, we apply a lower lapse rate assumption to these contracts. As an example, the lapse rate assumptions for contracts that
are not in-the-money and are out of their surrender charge period average between 7% and 20% per year, and the lapse rate assumptions for contracts that are in-the-money and are out of their surrender charge period average between 0% and
20% per year. Mortality assumptions are generally based on our historical experience or standard industry tables, and also vary by contract group. Unless a material change in contractholder behavior or mortality experience that we feel is
indicative of a long term trend is observed in an interim period, we generally update assumptions related to contractholder behavior and mortality in the third quarter of each year by considering the actual results that have occurred during the
period from the most recent update to the expected amounts. Over the last several years, the Company’s most significant assumption updates that have resulted in changes to our reserves for GMDBs and GMIBs have been related to lapse experience
and other contractholder behavior assumptions and revisions to expected future rates of returns on investments. The Company expects these assumptions to be the ones most likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions
can be offsetting and can also impact our DAC and other balances as discussed above. Generally, we do not expect our actual mortality trends to change significantly in the short-term, and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes
to be gradual over the long-term.    The future rate
of return assumptions used in establishing reserves for GMDBs and GMIBs related to variable annuity contracts are derived using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. For additional information regarding our future expected
rate of return assumptions and our reversion to the mean approach see, “—Deferred Policy Acquisition and Other Costs.” The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of the reserves for GMDBs and GMIBs related to
variable annuity contracts relative to our future rate of return assumptions by quantifying the adjustments to these reserves that would be required assuming both a 100 basis point increase and decrease in our future rate of return. The sensitivity
includes an increase and decrease of 100 basis points to both the near-term future rate of return assumptions used over the next four years, and the long-term expected rate of return used thereafter. While the information below is for illustrative
purposes 
  98 


Table of Contents

only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future rate of return assumptions, it is a near-term, reasonably likely change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This
information considers only the direct effect of changes in our future rate of return on operating results due to the change in the reserve balance and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, mortality, or expenses included in our
evaluation of the reserves, or any changes on DAC or other balances, discussed above in “—Deferred Policy Acquisition and Other Costs.”   








 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Increase/(Reduction) inGMDB/GMIB Reserves
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Decrease in future rate of return by 100 basis points
  
$
114
  

 Increase in future rate of return by 100 basis points
  
$
(96
) 
   For a discussion of
adjustments to the reserves for GMDBs and GMIBs related to our Individual Annuities segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, see “—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.”    Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses    Our liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses of $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2011 is reported as a component of “Future policy benefits” and relates primarily to the
group long-term disability products of our Group Insurance segment. This liability represents our estimate of future disability claim payments and expenses as well as estimates of claims that we believe have been incurred, but have not yet been
reported as of the balance sheet date. We do not establish loss liabilities until a loss has occurred. As prescribed by U.S. GAAP, our liability is determined as the present value of expected future claim payments and expenses. Expected future claim
payments are estimated using assumed mortality and claim termination factors and an assumed interest rate. The mortality and claim termination factors are based on standard industry tables and the Company’s historical experience. Our interest
rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Of these assumptions, our claim termination assumptions have historically had the most significant effect on our level of liability. We review our claim
termination assumptions compared to actual terminations annually. These studies review actual claim termination experience over a number of years with more weight placed on the actual experience in the more recent years. Recently, our claim
termination experience has been impacted by increased volatility driven by the economic downturn. If actual experience results in a different assumption, we adjust our liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses accordingly with a
charge or credit to current period earnings.   
Unearned revenue reserves for universal life and investment contracts    Our unearned revenue reserve, or URR, reported as a component of “Policyholders’ account
balances,” is $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. This reserve primarily relates to variable and universal life products within our Individual Life segment and represents policy charges for services to be provided in future periods. The
charges are deferred as unearned revenue and amortized over the expected life of the contract in proportion to the product’s estimated gross profits, similar to DAC as discussed above.    For the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment, a significant portion of our gross
profits is derived from mortality margins. As a result, our estimates of future gross profits are significantly influenced by our mortality assumptions. Our mortality assumptions represent our expected claims experience over the life of these
policies and are developed based on Company experience or standard industry tables. Unless a material change in mortality experience that we feel is indicative of a long term trend is observed in an interim period, we generally update our mortality
assumptions annually in the third quarter. Updates to our mortality assumptions in future periods could have a significant adverse or favorable effect on the results of our operations in the Individual Life segment. 
  The URR balance associated with the variable and universal
life policies of our Individual Life segment as of December 31, 2011 was $1.0 billion. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of that 
  99 


Table of Contents

URR balance relative to our future mortality assumptions by quantifying the adjustments that would be required, assuming both an increase and decrease in our future mortality rate by 1%. While
the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future mortality assumptions, it is a near-term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change on
the URR balance and does not reflect the offsetting impact of such a change on the DAC balance as discussed above in “—Deferred Policy Acquisition and Other Costs.” This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our
mortality assumptions on the URR balance and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, future rate of return, or expenses included in our evaluation of URR.   








 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Increase/(Reduction) in URR
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Decrease in future mortality by 1%
  
$
28
  

 Increase in future mortality by 1%
  
$
(28
) 
   For a discussion of URR
adjustments related to our Individual Life segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, see “—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance
Division—Individual Life.”    Pension and Other
Postretirement Benefits    We sponsor
pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specific eligibility requirements. Our net periodic costs for these plans consider an assumed discount (interest) rate, an expected rate of return on plan assets and expected
increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Of these assumptions, our expected rate of return assumptions, and to a lesser extent our discount rate assumptions, have historically had the most significant effect on our net
period costs associated with these plans.    We
determine our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon a building block approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation as well as expenses, expected asset manager
performance and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for our actual asset allocations by
asset category and the asset allocation ranges prescribed by our investment policy guidelines for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Our assumed long-term rate of return for 2011 was 7.00% for our pension plans and 7.00% for
our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31, 2010, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans
that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed
long-term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning of the measurement year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in
our assumed long-term rate of return.   












 
  
For the year ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Increase/(Decrease) in NetPeriodic Pension Cost
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in NetPeriodic Other 
PostretirementCost
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Increase in expected rate of return by 100 basis points
  
$
(101
) 
 
$
(14
) 

 Decrease in expected rate of return by 100 basis points
  
$
101
  
 
$
14
  

  100



Table of Contents
We determine our discount rate, used to value the pension and postretirement benefit
obligations, based upon rates commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the December 31, 2010 methodology we employed to determine our
discount rate for 2011. Our assumed discount rate for 2011 was 5.60% for our pension plans and 5.35% for our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of pension and postretirement obligation as of December 31, 2010, the beginning of
the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have
been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed discount rate without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately
accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate.   












 
  
For the year ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Increase/(Decrease) in NetPeriodic Pension Cost
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) in NetPeriodic Other 
PostretirementCost
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Increase in discount rate by 100 basis points
  
$
(2
) 
 
$
(5
) 

 Decrease in discount rate by 100 basis points
  
$
49
  
 
$
3
  
   Given the application of the
authoritative guidance for accounting for pensions, and the deferral and amortization of actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in our assumed discount rate, the change in net periodic pension cost arising from an increase in the assumed
discount rate by 100 basis points would not be expected to equal the change in net periodic pension cost arising from a decrease in the assumed discount rate by 100 basis points. 
  For a discussion of our expected rate of return on plan
assets and discount rate for our qualified pension plan in 2011, see “—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—Corporate and Other.” 
  For purposes of calculating pension income from our own
qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2012, we will decrease the discount rate to 4.85% from 5.60% in 2011. The expected rate of return on plan assets will decrease to 6.75% in 2012 from 7.00% in 2011, and the assumed rate of
increase in compensation will remain unchanged at 4.5%.    In addition to the effect of changes in our assumptions, the net periodic cost or benefit from our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may change due to factors such as actual experience being
different from our assumptions, special benefits to terminated employees, or changes in benefits provided under the plans.   
At December 31, 2011, the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement obligations to a 100 basis point change in discount rate was
as follows:   












 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Increase/(Decrease) inPension Benefits Obligation
 
 
Increase/(Decrease) inAccumulated PostretirementBenefits 
Obligation
 

 Increase in discount rate by 100 basis points
  
 
(10
)% 
 
 
(9
)% 

 Decrease in discount rate by 100 basis points
  
 
11
% 
 
 
10
% 
   Taxes on Income 
  Our effective tax rate is based on income, non-taxable and
non-deductible items, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and
expectations about future outcomes. The Company does not provide U.S. income taxes on unremitted foreign earnings of its non-U.S. Operations, other than its operations in Japan and certain operations in India, Germany, and Taiwan. 
  101



Table of Contents
Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times from when
the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the effective tax rate reflected in the financial statements is different than the actual rate applied on the tax return. Some of these differences are permanent such as expenses that
are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as valuation of insurance reserves. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items
that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which
payment has been deferred, or expenditures for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. 
  The application of U.S. GAAP requires us to evaluate the
recoverability of our deferred tax assets and establish a valuation allowance if necessary to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Considerable judgment is required in determining whether a
valuation allowance is necessary, and if so, the amount of such valuation allowance. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance we consider many factors, including: (1) the nature of the deferred tax assets and liabilities;
(2) whether they are ordinary or capital; (3) in which tax jurisdictions they were generated and the timing of their reversal; (4) taxable income in prior carryback years as well as projected taxable earnings exclusive of reversing
temporary differences and carryforwards; (5) the length of time that carryovers can be utilized in the various taxing jurisdictions; (6) any unique tax rules that would impact the utilization of the deferred tax assets; and (7) any
tax planning strategies that we would employ to avoid a tax benefit from expiring unused. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be
realized.    An increase or decrease in our
effective tax rate by one percent of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, would have resulted in an increase or decrease in our consolidated income from continuing
operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures in 2011 of $51 million.    U.S. GAAP prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that a company has taken or expects to
take on tax returns. The application of this guidance is a two-step process, the first step being recognition. We determine whether it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the tax position will be sustained upon examination.
If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. We measure the tax position as the largest amount of benefit
that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. This measurement considers the amounts and probabilities of the outcomes that could be
realized upon ultimate settlement using the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting date.   
Our liability for income taxes includes the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and interest that relate to tax years still subject to
review by the IRS or other taxing authorities. The completion of review or the expiration of the Federal statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to our liability for income taxes. The Federal statute of
limitations for the 2002 tax year expired on April 30, 2009. The Federal statute of limitations for the 2003 tax year expired on July 31, 2009. The Federal statute of limitations for the 2004 through 2007 tax years will expire in June
2012, unless extended. Tax years 2008 through 2010 are still open for IRS examination. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the impact in 2009 and 2011 of changes to our total unrecognized tax benefits. We do not
anticipate any significant changes within the next 12 months to our total unrecognized tax benefits related to tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired. 
  The Company’s affiliates in Japan and Korea file
separate tax returns and are subject to audits by the local taxing authority. The general statute of limitations for Japan and Korea are five years from when the return is filed. 
  102



Table of Contents
Reserves for Contingencies    A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved
upon the occurrence of future events. Under U.S. GAAP, reserves for contingencies are required to be established when the future event is probable and its impact can be reasonably estimated, such as in connection with an unresolved legal matter. The
initial reserve reflects management’s best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised accordingly as facts and circumstances change and, ultimately, when the matter is brought to closure. 
  Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements 
  See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a
discussion of recently adopted accounting pronouncements.   
Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements   
In October 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to address diversity in practice regarding the interpretation of which costs
relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify for deferral. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2012, and will apply the retrospective method of adoption. We estimate that if the new guidance were
adopted as of December 31, 2011, retrospective adoption would reduce deferred policy acquisition costs by approximately $3.6 billion to $4.4 billion for the Financial Services Businesses and by approximately $0.2 billion for the Closed Block
Business, increase policy reserves for certain limited pay contracts by approximately $0.2 billion to $0.3 billion for the Financial Services Businesses, and reduce total equity by approximately $2.6 billion to $3.0 billion for the Financial
Services Businesses and approximately $0.1 billion for the Closed Block Business. Subsequent to the adoption of the guidance, the lower level of costs qualifying for deferral may be only partially offset by a lower level of amortization of deferred
policy acquisition costs, and, as such, may initially result in lower earnings in future periods, primarily within the International Insurance and Individual Annuities segments. The impact to the International Insurance segment largely reflects
lower deferrals of allocated costs of its proprietary distribution system, while the impact to the Individual Annuities segment mainly reflects lower deferrals of its wholesaler costs. While the adoption of this amended guidance changes the timing
of when certain costs are reflected in the Company’s results of operations, it has no effect on the total acquisition costs to be recognized over time and will have no impact on the Company’s cash flows. 
  See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a
complete discussion of newly issued accounting pronouncements, including further discussion of the new authoritative guidance addressing which costs relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify for deferral. 
  103



Table of Contents
Consolidated Results of Operations 
  The following table summarizes net income (loss) for the
Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for the periods presented.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Financial Services Businesses by segment:
  



 



 




 Individual Annuities
  
$
2,018
  
 
$
1,019
  
 
$
621
  

 Retirement
  
 
956
  
 
 
687
  
 
 
376
  

 Asset Management
  
 
756
  
 
 
529
  
 
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
  
 
3,730
  
 
 
2,235
  
 
 
1,006
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Individual Life
  
 
496
  
 
 
461
  
 
 
696
  

 Group Insurance
  
 
265
  
 
 
193
  
 
 
97
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
  
 
761
  
 
 
654
  
 
 
793
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 International Insurance
  
 
2,986
  
 
 
1,644
  
 
 
1,095
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total International Insurance Division
  
 
2,986
  
 
 
1,644
  
 
 
1,095
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Corporate and Other
  
 
(2,557
) 
 
 
(866
) 
 
 
(890
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services
Businesses
  
 
4,920
  
 
 
3,667
  
 
 
2,004
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
1,537
  
 
 
1,058
  
 
 
131
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services
Businesses
  
 
3,383
  
 
 
2,609
  
 
 
1,873
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes
  
 
185
  
 
 
84
  
 
 
1,523
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations for Financial Services Businesses
  
 
3,568
  
 
 
2,693
  
 
 
3,396
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
 
35
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
(19
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income—Financial Services Businesses
  
 
3,603
  
 
 
2,725
  
 
 
3,377
  

 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
72
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
(34
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income of Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.
  
$
3,531
  
 
$
2,714
  
 
$
3,411
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock
  
$
7.23
  
 
$
5.75
  
 
$
7.72
  

 Diluted income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock
  
$
7.14
  
 
$
5.68
  
 
$
7.67
  

 Basic net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock
  
$
7.31
  
 
$
5.82
  
 
$
7.68
  

 Diluted net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock
  
$
7.22
  
 
$
5.75
  
 
$
7.63
  

 Closed Block Business:
  



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business
  
$
197
  
 
$
725
  
 
$
(480
) 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
62
  
 
 
245
  
 
 
(193
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations for Closed Block Business
  
 
135
  
 
 
480
  
 
 
(287
) 

 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)—Closed Block Business
  
 
135
  
 
 
481
  
 
 
(287
) 

 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) of Closed Block Business attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.
  
$
135
  
 
$
481
  
 
$
(287
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and diluted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Class B
Stock
  
$
55.50
  
 
$
222.00
  
 
$
(165.00
) 

 Basic and diluted net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.per share—Class B Stock
  
$
55.50
  
 
$
222.50
  
 
$
(165.00
) 

 Consolidated:
  



 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.
  
$
3,666
  
 
$
3,195
  
 
$
3,124
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  104



Table of Contents
Results of Operations—Financial Services Businesses 
  2011 to 2010 Annual
Comparison.    Income from continuing operations for the Financial Services Businesses increased $875 million, from $2,693 million in 2010 to $3,568 million in 2011. Results for 2011 compared to 2010 reflect the following:
  


 
•
 
 Higher net pre-tax earnings resulting from the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on certain non-yen denominated assets and liabilities
within our Japanese insurance operations, for which we economically hedge the foreign currency exposure, driven by the strengthening of the yen during 2011; 
 


 
•
 
 Higher net pre-tax gains associated with our general account portfolio, excluding the impact of the hedging program associated with certain variable
annuities as described below, primarily reflecting higher gains from changes in the market value of derivatives used to manage the investment portfolio duration resulting from declining interest rates in 2011, and higher gains from changes in the
market value of currency derivatives due to foreign currency exchange rate movements;   


 
•
 
 A $237 million pre-tax benefit in 2011 compared to a $66 million pre-tax benefit in 2010 on sales of portions of our indirect interest in China Pacific
Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd;   


 
•
 
 A $96 million pre-tax gain on the sale of our investment in Afore XXI, an operating joint venture in our International Insurance segment; and
  


 
•
 
 A net increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income, net of an increase in policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves,
reflecting business growth, as well as the impact of favorable currency fluctuations, in our International Insurance operations.   
Partially offsetting these increases in income from continuing operations were the following items: 
 


 
•
 
 A $722 million unfavorable variance, before taxes, reflecting the net impact from the mark-to-market of our embedded derivatives, including the impact
of non-performance risk, and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuities, the impact on amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs and the impact of temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from our hedge
target definition;   


 
•
 
 A $580 million unfavorable variance, before taxes, from adjustments to deferred policy acquisition and other costs and the reserves for guaranteed
minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, reflecting updates to the estimated profitability of the business primarily resulting from market performance and the impact of an annual review and update of assumptions;
and   


 
•
 
 A $93 million pre-tax expense for estimated payments arising from use of new Social Security Master Death File matching criteria to identify deceased
policy and contract holders.    On
a diluted per share basis, income from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for 2011 of $7.14 per share of Common Stock increased from $5.68 per share of Common Stock for 2010. We analyze the operating performance
of the segments included in the Financial Services Businesses using “adjusted operating income” as described in “—Segment Measures,” below. For a discussion of our segment results on this basis, see “—Results of
Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment,” below. In addition, for a discussion of the realized investment gains (losses), net attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, see “—Realized Investment Gains and
Losses and General Account Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses,” below. For additional information regarding investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) see “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses
and General Account Investments—General Account Investments,” below.    The direct equity adjustment increased income from continuing operations available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes by $24 million for 2011, compared to $36 million for 2010.
As described more fully in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. The holders of the Common
Stock will benefit from the direct equity adjustment as long as reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business are less than the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement that is based
upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. 
  105



Table of Contents

Generally, as statutory cash premiums and policies in force in the Closed Block Business decline, we expect the benefit to the Common Stock holders from the direct equity adjustment to decline
accordingly. If the reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business exceed the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement, the direct equity adjustment will reduce income available to
holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes.    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Income from continuing operations for the Financial Services Businesses decreased $703 million, from $3,396 million in 2009 to $2,693 million
in 2010. Results for 2009 include a $1,457 million after tax gain on the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities to Wells Fargo. Absent the effect of this item, income from continuing operations for the Financial Services
Businesses for 2010 increased $754 million from 2009 reflecting the following:   


 
•
 
 Net pre-tax gains in 2010 compared to net pre-tax losses in 2009 associated with our general account portfolio and hedging programs, reflecting the
impact of financial market conditions in each period;   


 
•
 
 A net increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income, net of an increase in policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves,
reflecting business growth, as well as the impact of currency fluctuations, in our International Insurance operations and higher life-contingent structured settlement and single premium annuity sales in our retirement business; and
  


 
•
 
 Increases in other income and benefits and expenses due to changes in value of recorded assets and liabilities that are expected to ultimately accrue
to contractholders.    On a
diluted per share basis, income from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for 2010 of $5.68 per share of Common Stock decreased from $7.67 per share of Common Stock for 2009. 
  The direct equity adjustment, as described above, increased
income from continuing operations available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes by $36 million for 2010 compared to $43 million for 2009. 
  Results of Operations—Closed Block Business 
  2011 to 2010 Annual
Comparison.    Income from continuing operations for the Closed Block Business for 2011, was $135 million, or $55.50 per share of Class B Stock, compared to $480 million, or $222.00 per share of Class B Stock, for 2010. The
direct equity adjustment decreased income from continuing operations available to the Class B Stock holders for earnings per share purposes by $24 million for 2011, compared to $36 million for 2010. For a discussion of the results of operations for
the Closed Block Business, see “—Results of Operations of Closed Block Business,” below.   
2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Income (loss) from continuing operations for the Closed Block Business for
2010, was $480 million, or $222.00 per share of Class B Stock, compared to a loss of $287 million, or $(165.00) per share of Class B Stock, for 2009. The direct equity adjustment decreased income from continuing operations available to the Class B
Stock holders for earnings per share purposes by $36 million for 2010 compared to $43 million for 2009. For a discussion of the results of operations for the Closed Block Business, see “—Results of Operations of Closed Block
Business,” below.    Segment Measures 
  In managing our business, we analyze operating performance
separately for our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. For the Financial Services Businesses, we analyze our segments’ operating performance using “adjusted operating income.” Results of the Closed Block
Business for all periods are evaluated and presented only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted operating income does not equate to “income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint
ventures” or “net income” as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP but is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources, and consistent with authoritative guidance, is our
measure of segment performance. The adjustments to derive adjusted operating income are important to an 
  106



Table of Contents

understanding of our overall results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating
income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from
ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of the Financial Services Businesses.    See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the presentation of segment results and our definition of adjusted operating income. 
  Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by
Segment    U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment
Management Division    Individual Annuities
   Operating Results 
  The following table sets forth the Individual Annuities
segment’s operating results for the periods indicated.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Operating results:
  



 



 




 Revenues
  
$
3,638
  
 
$
3,195
  
 
$
2,515
  

 Benefits and expenses
  
 
2,925
  
 
 
2,149
  
 
 
1,758
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted operating income
  
 
713
  
 
 
1,046
  
 
 
757
  

 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1)
  
 
3,136
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
416
  

 Related charges(2)
  
 
(1,831
) 
 
 
(147
) 
 
 
(552
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
2,018
  
 
$
1,019
  
 
$
621
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments, which include the net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit
features and related hedge positions as described below. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.” 


(2)
 
Revenues exclude related charges which represent payments related to the market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products. Benefits and expenses
exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on changes in reserves and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business
acquired.    Adjusted Operating
Income    2011 to 2010 Annual
Comparison.    Adjusted operating income decreased $333 million, from $1,046 million in 2010 to $713 million in 2011. The decrease in adjusted operating income was driven by the impacts of a $232 million net charge in the
current year, and a $348 million net benefit in the prior year, from adjustments to amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”) and other costs and to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”)
and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) features of our variable annuity products, primarily driven by the impact to the estimated profitability of the business of quarterly adjustments to reflect current period market performance
and experience, as well as the impact of annual reviews and updates of the assumptions used in estimating the profitability of our business. Results for both years include the impact of these items which are discussed in more detail below.
   Excluding the items discussed above, adjusted
operating income increased $247 million. The increase was driven by higher fee income, net of distribution costs, due to higher average variable annuity account values invested in separate accounts primarily driven by positive net flows. See
“—Account Values” below for a further discussion of our account values and sales. The higher fee income was partially offset by higher general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, reflecting higher costs to support
business growth and higher financing expenses, and the impact of a $25 million benefit in 2010 from refinements based on a review and settlement of reinsurance contracts related to acquired business. 
  107



Table of Contents
As shown in the following table, adjusted operating income for 2011 included $232 million of
net charges from adjustments to the amortization of DAC and other costs and to the reserves for the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products, compared to $348 million of net benefits included in 2010. 
 




























 
  
Year ended December 31, 2011
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1)
 
 
Reserves forGMDB/GMIB(2)
 
 
Total
 
 
Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1)
 
  
Reserves forGMDB/GMIB(2)
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Quarterly market performance adjustments
  
$
(118
) 
 
$
(170
) 
 
$
(288
) 
 
$
36
  
  
$
67
  
  
$
103
  

 Annual review/assumption updates
  
 
(45
) 
 
 
65
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
165
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
177
  

 Quarterly adjustments for current period experience and other updates(3)
  
 
31
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
23
  
  
 
45
  
  
 
68
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
(132
) 
 
$
(100
) 
 
$
(232
) 
 
$
224
  
  
$
124
  
  
$
348
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for (increases) or decreases, respectively, in the amortization of DAC and other costs resulting from adjustments to our estimate
of total gross profits. 


(2)
 
Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for reserve (increases) or decreases, respectively, related to the GMDB / GMIB features of our variable annuity products.



(3)
 
Represents the impact of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period, as well as updates
for current and future expected claims costs associated with the GMDB / GMIB features of our variable annuity products.   
The $288 million of charges and $103 million of benefits in 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to the quarterly market performance
adjustments shown in the table above are attributable to changes to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance. The following table shows the actual quarterly rates of return on variable annuity account values compared to
our previously expected quarterly rates of return used in our estimate of total gross profits for the periods indicated.   




































 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 
 
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 

 Actual rate of return
  
 
3.7
% 
 
 
0.8
% 
 
 
(9.8
)% 
 
 
4.9
% 
 
 
3.4
% 
 
 
(5.2
)% 
 
 
8.1
% 
 
 
6.0
% 

 Expected rate of return
  
 
1.7
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
2.2
% 
 
 
2.0
% 
 
 
1.9
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
1.9
% 
   Overall lower than expected
returns in 2011 decreased our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing DAC and other costs and increased our estimate of future expected claims costs associated with the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products,
by establishing a new, lower starting point for the variable annuity account values used in estimating those items for future periods. This change results in a higher required rate of amortization and higher required reserve provisions, which are
applied to all prior periods. The resulting cumulative adjustment to prior amortization and reserve provisions are recognized in the current period. Overall higher than expected returns in 2010 had opposite impacts, resulting in an increase to our
estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing DAC and other costs and a decrease to our estimate of future expected claims costs associated with the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products. This change resulted in a
lower required rate of amortization and lower required reserve provisions, which were applied to all prior periods.   
As discussed and shown in the table above, results for both years include the impact of the annual reviews performed in the third quarter
of the assumptions used in the reserves for the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products and in our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing DAC and other costs. The third quarter of 2011 included $20 million of
net benefits from these annual reviews, primarily related to a reduction of the assumption of the percentage of contracts with a GMIB feature that will annuitize based on the guaranteed value, partially offset by a reduction of the weighted average
future return assumption to 4.3% on fixed rate portfolios. The reduction in the weighted average future return assumption on fixed rate portfolios was driven by a refinement to our rate-setting methodology to reflect a lower interest rate assumption
for the next five years to reflect current market conditions, and use the long-term assumed rate thereafter in determining the blended future return on fixed rate investments of 4.3%. The third quarter of 2010 included $177 million of benefits from
these annual reviews, primarily related to reductions in lapse rate assumptions and more favorable assumptions relating to fee income. 
  108



Table of Contents
For a further discussion of the assumptions, including our current near-term and long-term
projected rates of return, used in estimating total gross profits used as the basis for amortizing DAC and other costs, and for estimating future expected claims costs associated with the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products, see
“—Accounting Policies and Pronouncements—Application of Critical Accounting Estimates.”   
The $36 million and $68 million of benefits in 2011 and 2010, respectively, shown in the table above, reflect the quarterly adjustments
for current period experience and other updates, also referred to as experience true-up adjustments. The experience true-up adjustments for 2011 include reductions to both the amortization of DAC and other costs and the reserves related to the GMDB
and GMIB features of our variable annuity products. The reduction to the amortization of DAC and other costs was driven by higher than expected gross profits primarily from lower than expected lapses, higher than expected fee income and higher than
expected general account spreads. The reduction to the reserves related to the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products was driven by lower than expected actual contract guarantee claim costs, higher than expected fee income and
higher than expected general account spreads, partially offset by lower than expected lapses. The experience true-up adjustments for 2010 included a reduction in the amortization of DAC and other costs driven by higher than expected gross profits
primarily from higher than expected fee income, and a reduction to the reserves related to the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products driven by lower than expected actual contract guarantee claim costs, more favorable lapse
experience and higher than expected fee income.   
As noted previously, the quarterly adjustments to reflect current period market performance and experience and other updates, and the
annual reviews and updates of assumptions impact the estimated profitability of our business. Therefore, in addition to the current period impacts discussed above, these items will also drive changes in our GMDB and GMIB reserves and the
amortization of DAC and other costs in future periods. Additionally, in the third and fourth quarters of 2011, we evaluated the results of our living benefits hedging program and determined the difference between the change in the value of the hedge
target liability and the change in the fair value of the hedge assets to be other-than-temporary. As a result, we included these amounts in our best estimate of total gross profits used for setting amortization rates, which will also drive changes
in the amortization of DAC and other costs in future periods. The table above excludes the impacts of resetting the amortization rates for this item, as both the hedge results and related amortization of DAC and other costs are excluded from
adjusted operating income. However, adjusted operating income in the fourth quarter of 2011 includes the subsequent impact to base amortization from resetting the amortization rates at the end of the third quarter. Base amortization is calculated by
applying the new rates to actual gross profits for the quarter. See “—Net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions” for additional details on the impact of our hedge results
that are excluded from adjusted operating income.   
2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Adjusted operating income increased $289 million, from $757 million in 2009
to $1,046 million in 2010. The increase in adjusted operating income was primarily due to an increase in fee income, net of higher distribution costs, driven by higher average variable annuity account values invested in separate accounts due to
positive net flows and net market appreciation.   
Partially offsetting the increase in adjusted operating income was a $31 million lower benefit related to adjustments to the reserves for
the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products and to our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing DAC and other costs. As shown in the following table, adjusted operating income for 2010 included $348 million of
benefits from these adjustments, compared to $379 million of benefits included in 2009. This variance is discussed in more detail below.   




























 
 
Year ended December 31, 2010
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2009
 

 
 
Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1)
 
 
Reserves forGMDB/GMIB(2)
 
 
Total
 
 
Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1)
 
 
Reserves forGMDB/GMIB(2)
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Quarterly market performance adjustments
 
$
36
  
 
$
67
  
 
$
103
  
 
$
54
  
 
$
277
  
 
$
331
  

 Annual review/assumption updates
 
 
165
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
177
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
(49
) 

 Quarterly adjustments for current period experience and other updates(3)
 
 
23
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
63
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
97
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
224
  
 
$
124
  
 
$
348
  
 
$
87
  
 
$
292
  
 
$
379
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for (increases) or decreases, respectively, in the amortization of DAC and other costs resulting from adjustments to our estimate
of total gross profits. 
  109



Table of Contents


(2)
 
Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for reserve (increases) or decreases, respectively, related to the GMDB / GMIB features of our variable annuity products.



(3)
 
Represents the impact of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period, as well as updates
for current and future expected claims costs associated with the GMDB / GMIB features of our variable annuity products.   
The $103 million and $331 million of benefits for 2010 and 2009, respectively, relating to the quarterly market performance adjustments
shown in the table above are attributable to changes to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance. The following table shows the actual quarterly rates of return on variable annuity account values compared to our
previously expected quarterly rates of return used in our estimate of total gross profits for the periods indicated.   




































 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 
 
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 

 Actual rate of return
  
 
3.4
% 
 
 
(5.2
)% 
 
 
8.1
% 
 
 
6.0
% 
 
 
(4.5
)% 
 
 
12.7
% 
 
 
10.6
% 
 
 
3.0
% 

 Expected rate of return
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
1.9
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
1.9
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.4
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
   Actual returns exceeded our
expected returns for 2010 which increased our estimates of total gross profits and decreased our estimate of future expected claims costs associated with the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products, by establishing a new, higher
starting point for the variable annuity account values used in estimating those items for future periods. The expected rates of return in 2010 for some contract groups were based upon our maximum future rate of return under the reversion to the mean
approach. The overall increase in our estimate of total gross profits and decrease in our estimate of future expected claims costs results in a lower required rate of amortization and lower required reserve provisions, which are applied to all prior
periods. The resulting cumulative adjustment to prior amortization and reserve provisions was a $103 million benefit for 2010 as shown in the table above.   
The $331 million of benefits for 2009 relating to the quarterly market performance adjustments is attributable to a similar impact on
gross profits of market value increases in the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products, reflecting financial market conditions during the period. The benefit in 2009 is higher than that in 2010 due to a greater difference in
2009 between the actual rates of return and the expected rates of return. Also, the $54 million decrease in amortization of DAC and other costs in 2009 is net of a $73 million charge to impair the entire remaining balance of value of business
acquired, or VOBA, related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from The Allstate Corporation, or Allstate, in the second quarter of 2006. The additional charge was required in the first quarter of 2009, as the declines in estimated future
gross profits related to market performance caused the present value of estimated gross profits for these contracts to fall below zero. Since the VOBA balance was completely amortized for these contracts, it cannot be reestablished for market value
appreciation in subsequent periods.    As discussed
and shown in the table above, results for both periods also include the impact of the annual reviews performed in the third quarter of the assumptions used in the reserves for the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products and in our
estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing DAC and other costs. 2010 included $177 million of benefits from these annual reviews, primarily related to reductions in lapse rate assumptions and more favorable assumptions relating
to fee income. 2009 included $49 million of charges from these annual reviews, primarily related to reductions in the future rate of return assumptions applied to the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products. Partially
offsetting the impact of the updated future rate of return assumptions for 2009 were benefits related to the impact of lower mortality and higher investment spread assumptions. 
  The $68 million benefit for 2010 and the $97 million benefit
for 2009 for the quarterly adjustments for current period experience and other updates shown in the table above primarily reflect the impact of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross
profits for the period, as well as an update for current and future expected claims costs associated with the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products. To the extent each period’s actual experience differs from the previous
estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change, and a cumulative adjustment to previous periods’ amortization, also referred to as an experience true-up adjustment, may be required in the current period.

  110



Table of Contents

This adjustment to previous periods’ amortization is in addition to the direct impact of actual gross profits on current period amortization and the market performance related adjustment to
our estimates of gross profits for future periods. The experience true-up adjustments for deferred policy acquisition and other costs for 2010 reflect a reduction in amortization due to better than expected gross profits, resulting primarily from
higher than expected fee income. The adjustment for the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products in 2010 primarily reflects a reserve decrease driven by lower than expected actual
contract guarantee claim costs, more favorable lapse experience, and higher than expected fee income. The experience true-up adjustments for deferred policy acquisition and other costs for 2009 reflect a reduction in amortization due to better than
expected gross profits. The adjustment for the reserves for the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products in 2009 primarily reflects higher than expected fee income due to market value increases, partially offset by higher than
expected actual contract guarantee claims costs due to lower than expected lapses.    Revenues    2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Revenues, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $443 million, from $3,195 million in 2010 to $3,638
million in 2011. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income increased $576 million driven by higher average variable annuity account values invested in separate accounts due to positive net flows and net transfers of balances
from the general account to the separate accounts primarily driven by an automatic rebalancing element, also referred to as an asset transfer feature, in some of our optional living benefit features. Partially offsetting the increase in revenues was
a decrease in net investment income of $88 million, reflecting lower average annuity account values in the general account also resulting from transfers from the general account to the separate accounts. Premiums also decreased $45 million,
reflecting a decline in annuitizations of our variable annuity contracts.    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Revenues increased $680 million, from $2,515 million in 2009 to $3,195 million in 2010. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and
other income increased $703 million primarily due to higher average variable annuity account values invested in separate accounts. The increase in average separate account asset balances was due to positive net flows, net market appreciation, and
net transfers of balances from the general account to the separate accounts during 2010. Premiums also increased $78 million driven by an increase in annuitizations primarily from contracts with the GMIB feature. Partially offsetting the increase in
revenues was a decrease in net investment income of $101 million, reflecting lower average annuity account values in the general account also resulting from transfers from the fixed-rate account in the general account to the separate accounts as
discussed above.    See “—Account
Values” below for a further discussion of our account values and sales, and “—Variable Annuity Net Amount at Risk” below for a further discussion of the automatic rebalancing element in some of our optional living benefit
features.    Benefits and Expenses
   2011 to 2010 Annual
Comparison.    Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $776 million, from $2,149 million in 2010 to $2,925 million in 2011. Absent the net $580 million increase
related to the adjustments to the reserves for the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products and to our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing DAC and other costs, discussed above, benefits and expenses
increased $196 million. General and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, increased $199 million, driven by higher distribution and asset management costs, reflecting business and account value growth. The amortization of DAC increased $97
million primarily reflecting the impact of higher gross profits used as a basis for amortization driven by higher fee income. Interest expense also increased $46 million driven by higher borrowings to fund costs related to new business sales.
Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances decreased $107 million primarily due to lower average annuity account values in the fixed-rate account of the general account partially offset by higher amortization of deferred sales
inducements reflecting the impact of higher gross profits. Insurance and annuity benefits also decreased $39 million, primarily driven by the decrease in premiums noted above.  
  111



Table of Contents
2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison    Benefits and expenses increased
$391 million, from $1,758 million in 2009 to $2,149 million in 2010. Absent the net $31 million increase related to the adjustments to the reserves for the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuity products and to our estimate of total gross
profits used as a basis for amortizing DAC and other costs, benefits and expenses increased $360 million. General and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, increased $240 million primarily driven by higher distribution and asset management
costs, reflecting higher average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts and higher variable annuity sales. Interest expense also increased $53 million driven by higher intercompany borrowings to fund operating costs and new
business sales. The amortization of DAC increased $36 million reflecting the impact of higher gross profits used as a basis for amortization driven by higher fee income. Insurance and annuity benefits increased $34 million driven by an increase in
annuitizations primarily from contracts with the GMIB feature partially offset by lower reserves on the GMDB and GMIB features due to the impact of favorable markets on account values during 2010. Lower interest credited to policyholders’
account balances driven by lower average annuity account values in the fixed-rate accounts of the general account was mostly offset by higher amortization of deferred sales inducements, reflecting the impact of higher gross profits primarily from
fee income.    Account Values 
  The following table sets forth changes in account values for
the individual annuity business, for the periods indicated. For our individual annuity business, assets are reported at account value, and net sales (redemptions) are gross sales minus redemptions or surrenders and withdrawals, as applicable. Gross
sales do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Variable Annuities(1):
  



 



 




 Beginning total account value
  
$
102,348
  
 
$
80,519
  
 
$
60,007
  

 Sales
  
 
20,224
  
 
 
21,651
  
 
 
16,117
  

 Surrenders and withdrawals
  
 
(7,049
) 
 
 
(6,923
) 
 
 
(5,776
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net sales
  
 
13,175
  
 
 
14,728
  
 
 
10,341
  

 Benefit payments
  
 
(1,092
) 
 
 
(981
) 
 
 
(988
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net flows
  
 
12,083
  
 
 
13,747
  
 
 
9,353
  

 Change in market value, interest credited and other activity(2)
  
 
(2,450
) 
 
 
9,748
  
 
 
12,220
  

 Policy charges
  
 
(2,238
) 
 
 
(1,666
) 
 
 
(1,061
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending total account value(3)
  
$
109,743
  
 
$
102,348
  
 
$
80,519
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fixed Annuities:
  



 



 




 Beginning total account value
  
$
3,837
  
 
$
3,452
  
 
$
3,295
  

 Sales
  
 
69
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
179
  

 Surrenders and withdrawals
  
 
(183
) 
 
 
(215
) 
 
 
(258
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net redemptions
  
 
(114
) 
 
 
(112
) 
 
 
(79
) 

 Benefit payments
  
 
(276
) 
 
 
(267
) 
 
 
(160
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net flows
  
 
(390
) 
 
 
(379
) 
 
 
(239
) 

 Interest credited and other activity(2)
  
 
346
  
 
 
766
  
 
 
397
  

 Policy charges
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending total account value
  
$
3,792
  
 
$
3,837
  
 
$
3,452
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Individual Annuities—Ending total account value
  
$
113,535
  
 
$
106,185
  
 
$
83,971
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Variable annuities include only those sold as retail investment products. Investments sold through defined contribution plan products are included with such products
within the Retirement segment. 


(2)
 
Includes cumulative reclassifications of $267 million in 2010 and $259 million in 2009 from variable annuity to fixed annuity account values to conform presentation of
certain contracts in annuitization status to current reporting practices. 


(3)
 
As of December 31, 2011, variable annuity account values are invested in equity portfolios ($50 billion or 46%), bond portfolios ($43 billion or 39%), market value
adjusted or fixed-rate accounts ($9 billion or 8%), and other ($8 billion or 7%). 
  112



Table of Contents
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Total account values for
variable and fixed annuities amounted to $113.5 billion as of December 31, 2011, representing an increase of $7.4 billion from December 31, 2010. The increase was driven by positive variable annuity net flows, partially offset by decreases
in the market value of customers’ variable annuities due to unfavorable equity markets and higher policy charges driven by the growing account value base. Gross sales of our variable annuities decreased $1.4 billion, driven by the impacts of
modifications we implemented in the first quarter of 2011 to scale back benefits and increase pricing, and increased competition as certain of our competitors became more aggressive in product design and pricing. Despite these impacts, we believe
that our current product offerings remain competitively positioned and expect our living benefit features will provide us an attractive risk and profitability profile, as all of our currently-sold optional living benefit features include an
automatic rebalancing element. Our automatic rebalancing element occurs at the contractholder level, rather than at the fund level, which we believe enhances our risk management capabilities. Individual variable annuity surrenders and withdrawals
were relatively flat despite the increase in account values, as the newly acquired business experienced lower lapse rates. See “—Variable Annuity Net Amount at Risk” for a more detailed discussion of our automatic rebalancing element.
   2010 to 2009 Annual
Comparison.    Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $106.2 billion as of December 31, 2010, representing an increase of $22.2 billion from December 31, 2009. The increase was driven by
positive variable annuity net flows and increases in the market value of customers’ variable annuities due to favorable equity markets for 2010. Individual variable annuity gross sales increased $5.5 billion, from $16.1 billion in 2009 to $21.6
billion in 2010. The increase reflects our product strength, customer value proposition, and position as the primary provider of living benefit guarantees based on highest daily customer account value as well as the further expansion of our
distribution networks. Additionally, we benefited from some of our competitors implementing product modifications to increase pricing and scale back product features due to market disruptions in late 2008 and the first half of 2009. Individual
variable annuity surrenders and withdrawals increased by $1.1 billion, from $5.8 billion in 2009 to $6.9 billion in 2010, reflecting the overall impact of higher account values in 2010 due to market appreciation during that period. 
  Variable Annuity Net Amount at Risk 
  The net amount at risk is generally defined as the present
value of the guaranteed minimum benefit amount in excess of the contractholder’s current account balance. Changes in the global financial markets can create volatility in the net amounts at risk embedded in our variable annuity products that
include optional living benefit and GMDB features. As part of our risk management strategy, we hedge or limit our exposure to certain of the risks associated with these products, primarily through a combination of product design elements, such as an
automatic rebalancing element, and externally purchased hedging instruments. Our hedging program is discussed below in “—Net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions.” The rate
of return we realize from our variable annuity contracts can vary by contract based on our risk management strategy, including the impact of any capital market movements that we may hedge, the impact on that portion of our variable annuity contracts
that benefit from the automatic rebalancing element, the impact of risks we have deemed suitable to retain and the impact of risks that are not able to be hedged. 
  The automatic rebalancing element, also referred to as an
asset transfer feature, included in the design of certain optional living benefits, transfers assets between certain variable investments selected by the annuity contractholder and, depending on the benefit feature, the fixed-rate account in the
general account or a bond portfolio within the separate accounts. The automatic rebalancing element associated with currently-sold products transfers assets between certain variable investments selected by the annuity contractholder and a designated
bond portfolio within the separate accounts. The transfers are based on the static mathematical formula used with the particular benefit which considers a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the impact of investment performance on the
contractholder’s total account value. In general, negative investment performance may result in transfers to either the fixed-rate account in the general account or a bond portfolio within the separate accounts, and positive investment
performance may result in transfers back to contractholder-selected variable investments. Overall, the automatic rebalancing element helps to mitigate our exposure to equity market risk and market volatility. Beginning in 2009, all offerings of
optional living benefit features associated with currently-sold variable annuity products include an automatic rebalancing element, and in 2009 we discontinued any new sales of optional living benefit features without an automatic rebalancing
element. 
  113



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the account values of our variable annuities with living
benefit features and the net amount at risk of the living benefit features split between those that include an automatic rebalancing element and those that do not, as of the dates indicated. 
 




























 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 
 
December 31, 2009
 

 
 
Account Value
 
 
Net Amountat Risk
 
 
Account Value
 
 
Net Amountat Risk
 
 
Account Value
 
 
Net Amountat Risk
 

 
 
($ in millions)
 

 Automatic rebalancing element(1)
 
$
70,341
  
 
$
4,238
  
 
$
57,336
  
 
$
1,217
  
 
$
34,901
  
 
$
1,061
  

 No automatic rebalancing element
 
 
15,300
  
 
 
2,361
  
 
 
17,735
  
 
 
1,825
  
 
 
17,570
  
 
 
2,785
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total variable annuity account values with living benefit features
 
$
85,641
  
 
$
6,599
  
 
$
75,071
  
 
$
3,042
  
 
$
52,471
  
 
$
3,846
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 
 
(% of total)
 

 Automatic rebalancing element
 
 
82
% 
 
 
64
% 
 
 
76
% 
 
 
40
% 
 
 
67
% 
 
 
28
% 

 No automatic rebalancing element
 
 
18
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
72
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total variable annuity account values with living benefit features
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, asset values that have rebalanced to the general account or a separate account bond portfolio due to the automatic
rebalancing element represent 30% or $20.9 billion of the $70.3 billion total account value, 12% or $6.7 billion of the $57.3 billion total account value and 23% or $8.2 billion of the $34.9 billion total account value, respectively.
   The increase in account values that
include an automatic rebalancing element as of December 31, 2011 compared to prior periods primarily reflects sales of our latest product offerings which include this feature. The increase in the net amount at risk for these contracts as of
December 31, 2011 compared to prior periods reflects overall growth in our variable annuity business and account value performance during 2011.   
Our GMDBs guarantee a minimum return on the contract value or an enhanced value, if applicable, to be used solely for purposes of
determining benefits payable in the event of death. The net amount at risk associated with the GMDBs provided by our variable annuity contracts includes risk we have deemed suitable to retain. However, certain of these account values are affected by
an automatic rebalancing element because the contractholder selected a living benefit feature which includes an automatic rebalancing element. All of the variable annuity account values with living benefit features shown in the table above also
contain GMDBs. An additional $21.1 billion, $24.0 billion and $24.4 billion of variable annuity account values, as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, contain GMDBs, but no living benefit features. The following table sets forth
the account values of our variable annuities with GMDBs and the net amount at risk of these benefits split between those that are affected by an automatic rebalancing element and those that are not, as of the dates indicated. 
 




























 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 
 
December 31, 2009
 

 
 
Account Value
 
 
Net Amountat Risk
 
 
Account Value
 
 
Net Amountat Risk
 
 
Account Value
 
 
Net Amountat Risk
 

 
 
($ in millions)
 

 Automatic rebalancing element
 
$
70,341
  
 
$
2,154
  
 
$
57,336
  
 
$
592
  
 
$
34,901
  
 
$
800
  

 No automatic rebalancing element
 
 
36,407
  
 
 
5,628
  
 
 
41,693
  
 
 
4,867
  
 
 
41,975
  
 
 
7,798
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total variable annuity account values with death benefit features
 
$
106,748
  
 
$
7,782
  
 
$
99,029
  
 
$
5,459
  
 
$
76,876
  
 
$
8,598
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 
 
(% of total)
 

 Automatic rebalancing element
 
 
66
% 
 
 
28
% 
 
 
58
% 
 
 
11
% 
 
 
45
% 
 
 
9
% 

 No automatic rebalancing element
 
 
34
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
91
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total variable annuity account values with death benefit features
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The increase in account
values that include an automatic rebalancing element as of December 31, 2011 compared to prior periods primarily reflects sales of our latest product offerings which include this feature. The increase in the net amount at risk for these
contracts as of December 31, 2011 compared to 2010 reflects overall growth in our variable annuity business and account value performance during 2011. 
  114



Table of Contents
Net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related
hedge positions    As mentioned above, in
addition to our automatic rebalancing element, we also manage certain risks associated with our variable annuity products through our hedging programs. In our living benefit hedging program, we purchase interest rate swaps, swaptions, floors and
caps as well as equity options and futures to hedge certain living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives against changes in certain capital market assumptions such as interest rates, equity markets and market volatility. Prior to
the third quarter of 2010, our hedging strategy sought to generally match certain capital market sensitivities of the embedded derivative liability as defined by U.S. GAAP, excluding the impact of the market’s perception of our own
non-performance risk (“NPR”), with capital market derivatives. In the third quarter of 2010, we revised our hedging strategy as, in a low interest rate environment, we do not believe that the U.S. GAAP value of the embedded derivative
liability is an appropriate measure for defining the hedge target. Our current hedge target definition is grounded in a U.S. GAAP/capital markets valuation framework but incorporates two modifications to the U.S. GAAP valuation assumptions. We add a
credit spread to the U.S. GAAP risk-free rate of return assumption used to estimate future growth of bond investments in the customer separate account funds to account for the fact that the underlying customer separate account funds which support
these living benefits are invested in assets that contain risk. We also adjust our volatility assumption to remove certain risk margins embedded in the valuation technique used to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative liability under
U.S. GAAP, as we believe the impact on the liability driven by these margins is temporary and does not reflect the economic value of the liability. This hedging strategy results in differences each period between the change in the value of the
embedded derivative liability as defined by U.S. GAAP and the change in the value of the hedge positions, potentially increasing volatility in U.S. GAAP earnings. 
  In addition, we evaluate hedge levels versus our hedge target
based on the overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing capital market conditions, and may decide to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. Based on these considerations, beginning in the
latter half of 2010, we decided to temporarily hedge to an amount less than our hedge target definition to be consistent with our long-term economic view. From the inception of this decision through December 31, 2011, we have experienced
cumulative increases in the hedge target liability of approximately $1.4 billion related to the under-hedged risk, with no corresponding hedge asset increase. This cumulative impact includes $1.7 billion of losses attributable to 2011, partially
offset by $0.3 billion of gains attributable to 2010. Because this decision is based on the overall capital considerations of the Company as a whole, the impact on results from temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from our hedge target
definition is reported within Corporate and Other operations, as described in “—Corporate and Other.”   
As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of the living benefit embedded derivative under U.S. GAAP was a $2.8 billion liability.
Excluding the impact of the cumulative adjustment for NPR of $5.5 billion, the value of the living benefit embedded derivative was an $8.3 billion liability. As of December 31, 2011, the value of our hedge target, based on our hedge target
definition, was a $7.1 billion liability. The difference between the value of the hedge target and the value of the living benefit embedded derivative under U.S. GAAP, excluding NPR, as of December 31, 2011 is primarily attributable to the
impact of the margins and return assumptions as discussed above.    As described above, our hedging strategy uses capital markets instruments to generally match certain capital market sensitivities of the portion of the hedge target liability we choose to hedge. As of
December 31, 2011, the fair value of our hedge positions was a net asset position of $5.3 billion. Due to cash flow timing differences between our hedging instruments and the corresponding hedge target, as well as our decision to temporarily
hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition and other factors, the amount of hedge assets compared to our hedge target measured as of any specific point in time will be different, and is not expected to be fully offsetting.
   For additional information regarding the Capital
Protection Framework we use to evaluate and support the risks of our hedging program, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries—Capital.”
   The net impact of both the change in the value of
the embedded derivative liabilities associated with our living benefit features and the change in fair value of the related derivative hedge positions are included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments” and
the related impact to the amortization of 
  115



Table of Contents

DAC and other costs is included in “Related charges,” both of which are excluded from adjusted operating income. The following table shows the net impact of changes in the embedded
derivative liability and related hedge positions, as well as the related amortization of DAC and other costs, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 for the Individual Annuities segment. 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 

 
  
(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Change in fair value of hedge positions
  
$
3,873
  
 
$
(224
) 
 
$
(2,715
) 

 Change in value of hedge target liability, excluding unhedged portions and assumption updates(2)
  
 
(5,170
) 
 
 
364
  
 
 
3,049
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net hedging impact, excluding unhedged portions and assumption updates
  
 
(1,297
) 
 
 
140
  
 
 
334
  

 Change in portions of embedded derivative liability, before NPR, excluded from hedge target definition(3)
  
 
(457
) 
 
 
387
  
 
 
0
  

 Impact of assumption updates on hedge target liability
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
(902
) 
 
 
(110
) 

 Change in the NPR adjustment(4)
  
 
4,786
  
 
 
412
  
 
 
312
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net benefit from changes in embedded derivative liability and hedge positions reported in the Individual Annuities
segment
  
 
3,015
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
536
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Related charge to amortization of DAC and other costs(5)
  
 
(1,736
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(410
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net benefit from changes in embedded derivative liability and hedge positions, after the impact of NPR, DAC and other costs,
reported in the Individual Annuities segment
  
$
1,279
  
 
$
33
  
 
$
126
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in value of unhedged portion of hedge target liability—reported in Corporate & Other
operations(6)
  
$
(1,662
) 
 
$
306
  
 
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Positive amount represents income; negative amount represents a loss. 


(2)
 
Beginning with the third quarter of 2010, represents the change in value based on our hedge target definition as described above, excluding the impacts of temporarily
hedging to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition and assumption updates. Prior to the third quarter of 2010, our hedging strategy sought to generally match the sensitivities of the embedded derivative liability as defined by U.S.
GAAP, excluding the impact of NPR. 


(3)
 
Represents the impact attributable to the difference between the value of the hedge target liability, based on our hedge target definition, and the value of the
embedded derivative liability as defined by U.S. GAAP, before adjusting for NPR. 


(4)
 
To reflect NPR, we incorporate an additional spread over LIBOR into the discount rate used in the valuation of those individual living benefit contracts in a liability
position and not to those in a contra-liability position. As of December 31, 2011, the value of the embedded derivatives, before the adjustment for NPR, was a net liability of $8.3 billion. This net liability was comprised of $8.5 billion of
individual living benefit contracts in a liability position, net of $0.2 billion of individual living benefit contracts in a contra-liability position. 


(5)
 
Related charge to amortization of DAC and other costs is excluded from adjusted operating income and included in operating results in “Related charges.”



(6)
 
Represents the impact of temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. This amount is not reported in the Individual Annuities
segment. See “—Corporate and Other” for details.    As shown in the table above, the net impacts from changes in the embedded derivative liability and hedge positions, after the impact of DAC and other costs, reported in the Individual Annuities segment
were net benefits of $1,279 million, $33 million and $126 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
The net benefit of $1,279 million in 2011 included a net charge of $1,297 million resulting from the net impact of hedging, excluding the
unhedged portions and assumption updates, driven by significant capital markets volatility in the second half of 2011. Also included in the net benefit of $1,279 million was a net charge of $457 million attributable to the difference between the
valuation of the embedded derivative liability as defined by U.S. GAAP and the valuation of the hedge target liability, which we choose not to hedge. These charges were offset by a $4,786 million adjustment to the embedded derivative liability to
reflect NPR, primarily from a higher base of embedded derivative liabilities, driven by significant declines in risk-free interest rates and the impact of account value performance, as well as an overall widening of the credit spreads used in
valuing NPR, which reflect the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries. Partially offsetting these items was a net charge of $1,736 million from the inclusion of these items in current period gross profits used in calculating the
amortization of DAC. In the third and fourth quarters of 2011, we also determined that the cumulative difference between the change in the value of the hedge target liability, excluding the unhedged portions and assumption updates, and the change in
the fair value of the hedge assets was other-than-temporary. 
  116



Table of Contents

As a result, we included the cumulative differences in our best estimate of total gross profits, which resulted in an increase in our DAC amortization rates. For a further discussion of the
assumptions used in estimating total gross profits used as the basis for amortizing DAC and other costs, see “—Accounting Policies and Pronouncements—Application of Critical Accounting Estimates.” 
  The net benefit of $33 million in 2010 included a net benefit
of $140 million resulting from the net impact of hedging, excluding the unhedged portions and assumption updates, driven by differences in the actual performance of the underlying separate accounts funds relative to the performance of the market
indices we utilized as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. Also included in the net benefit of $33 million was a net benefit of $387 million attributable to the difference between the valuation of the embedded derivative liability as
defined by U.S. GAAP and the valuation of the hedge target liability, which we choose not to hedge, and a net charge of $902 million related to reductions in the expected lapse rate assumption based on actual experience. These items were partially
offset by a $412 million adjustment to the embedded derivative liability to reflect NPR, primarily resulting from an increase in the value of embedded derivatives in a liability position, reflecting an increase in the present value of future
expected benefit payments driven by lower interest rates and a reduction in the expected lapse rate assumption. Partially offsetting these items was a net charge of $4 million from the inclusion of these items in current period gross profits used in
calculating the amortization of DAC.    The net
benefit of $126 million in 2009 included a net benefit of $334 million resulting from the net impact of hedging, excluding assumption updates, driven by differences in the actual performance of the underlying separate accounts funds relative to the
performance of the market indices we utilized as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. Also included in the net benefit of $126 million was a net charge of $110 million from updates to the expected lapse rate and equity volatility assumptions
based on actual experience. These items were partially offset by a $312 million adjustment to the embedded derivative liability to reflect NPR, reflecting the initial incorporation of an additional spread over LIBOR to reflect NPR in the valuation
of the embedded derivative liability in 2009. Partially offsetting these items was a net charge of $410 million from the inclusion of these items in current period gross profits used in calculating the amortization of DAC. 
  For additional information regarding the methodologies used
in determining the fair value of the embedded derivative liability associated with our living benefit features as defined by U.S. GAAP, and for calculating the impact of NPR, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
“—Valuation of Assets and Liabilities—Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities—Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features.”   
Capital hedge program   
In the second quarter of 2009, we began the expansion of our hedging program to include a portion of the market exposure related to the
overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including the impact of certain statutory reserve exposures. These capital hedges, which primarily consisted of equity-based total return swaps, were designed to partially offset changes in
our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain living and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. During the second quarter of 2010, we removed the equity component of our capital hedge within the Individual
Annuities segment by terminating the equity-based total return swaps, as part of a new program to more broadly address the equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole, under stress scenarios. Since the new program
incorporates capital implications across a number of businesses, the results of that program are reported within Corporate and Other operations. Consequently, see “—Corporate and Other” for a discussion of the results of the current
program. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries” for a further discussion of the capital hedge program. The results of the Individual Annuities
segment included $21 million and $180 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively, of mark-to-market losses on these capital hedges prior to their termination, driven by favorable market conditions which resulted in an increase in our capital position.
The results of these hedges are included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments” and have been excluded from adjusted operating income. We continue to assess the composition of the hedging program on an ongoing
basis. 
  117



Table of Contents
Retirement 
  Operating Results 
  The following table sets forth the Retirement segment’s
operating results for the periods indicated.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Operating results:
  



 



 




 Revenues
  
$
4,871
  
 
$
5,183
  
 
$
4,659
  

 Benefits and expenses
  
 
4,273
  
 
 
4,611
  
 
 
4,165
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted operating income
  
 
598
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
494
  

 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1)
  
 
269
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
(825
) 

 Related charges(2)
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
5
  

 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3)
  
 
383
  
 
 
468
  
 
 
1,533
  

 Change in experience-rated contract holder liabilities due to asset value changes(4)
  
 
(283
) 
 
 
(598
) 
 
 
(831
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
956
  
 
$
687
  
 
$
376
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account
Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses” and “—Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities, Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Related Investments.” 


(2)
 
Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on changes in reserves and
the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. 


(3)
 
Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See “—Experience-Rated Contractholder
Liabilities, Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Related Investments.” 


(4)
 
Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience-rated contracts.
See “—Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities, Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Related Investments.” 
  Adjusted Operating Income 
  2011 to 2010 Annual
Comparison.    Adjusted operating income increased $26 million, from $572 million in 2010 to $598 million in 2011. The increase primarily reflects higher asset-based fee income, partially offset by lower net investment spread
results and higher general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization. Also offsetting the increase in adjusted operating income is an unfavorable impact from annual reviews performed in the third quarter of the assumptions used in our
estimate of total gross profits which forms the basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired, as well as the impact of our quarterly adjustments to total gross profits for current period experience.
   Higher asset-based fee income was driven by an
increase in fee-based investment-only stable value account values in our institutional investment products business driven by net additions, and higher average full service fee-based retirement account values primarily driven by market appreciation.
For further discussion of our sales and account values, see “—Sales Results and Account Values.”   
Lower net investment spread results were driven by lower reinvestment rates, and the unfavorable impact of changes in the market values of
alternative investments and equity investments in certain separate accounts. Partially offsetting these declines were the impact of lower crediting rates driven by rate resets in the first quarter of 2011 and higher general account stable value
account values in our full service business. The impact of higher structured settlement product balances in our institutional investment products business was essentially offset by lower balances from guaranteed investment product scheduled
withdrawals.    Higher general and administrative
expenses, net of capitalization, were driven by costs related to legal matters and strategic initiatives. These increases in expenses were partially offset by a decline in charges related to certain cost reduction initiatives. 
  Results for both 2011 and 2010 include the impact of annual
reviews performed in the third quarter of the assumptions used in our estimate of total gross profits which forms the basis for amortizing deferred policy 
  118



Table of Contents

acquisition costs and value of business acquired, as well as the impact of our quarterly adjustments to total gross profits for current period experience. Adjusted operating income for 2011 and
2010 included charges of $24 million and $18 million, respectively, from the annual reviews. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience had no net impact on 2011 earnings and resulted in an $11 million benefit in 2010, reflecting the
cumulative impact on amortization of differences between actual gross profits and previously estimated expected gross profits. Together, these items resulted in a net charge of $24 million in 2011 and a net charge of $7 million in 2010. The net
charge of $24 million in 2011 was driven by changes to expense and net cash flow assumptions which decreased expected future gross profits, while the net charge of $7 million in 2010 was driven by changes in lapse rate and fee-based profit margin
assumptions which also decreased expected future gross profits.    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Adjusted operating income increased $78 million, from $494 million in 2009 to $572 million in 2010, primarily reflecting higher asset-based
fee income and improved net investment spread results partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, and a less favorable benefit from reserve refinements. 
  Higher asset-based fees were driven by an increase in average
full service fee-based retirement account values due to market appreciation and net additions, and higher fee-based investment-only stable value account values in our institutional investment products business driven by net additions. 
  Improved net investment spread results were driven by lower
crediting rates on general account liabilities in our full service business and increased income from alternative investments. Lower crediting rates on general account liabilities in our full service business resulted from rate resets in the third
quarter of 2009 and first quarter of 2010. Also contributing to the increase in net investment spread results were increased net settlements on floating-rate to fixed-rate interest rate swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio.
The increase in net swap settlements resulted from the generally favorable impact of lower interest rates on the swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio primarily for our institutional investment products business. Partially
offsetting the improvement in net investment spread results was the negative impact of a lower base of invested assets in our general account reflecting scheduled withdrawals from guaranteed investment products in our institutional investment
products business partially offset by the positive impact of net additions in our structured settlement product and increases in balances in our full service general account stable value products. 
  Partially offsetting these increases in adjusted operating
income was an increase in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, driven by expenses incurred in 2010 related to certain cost reduction initiatives. Also partially offsetting these increases in adjusted operating income was a
less favorable benefit from reserve refinements, primarily due to a benefit in 2009 related to updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business. 
  Results for both 2010 and 2009 also include the impact of
annual reviews of the assumptions used in our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired, as well as the impact of our quarterly adjustments to total gross profits
for current period experience. Adjusted operating income for 2010 and 2009 included charges of $18 million and $3 million, respectively, from the annual reviews. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience resulted in an $11 million
benefit in 2010 compared to a $5 million charge in 2009, reflecting the cumulative impact on amortization of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period. Together, these
items resulted in net charges included in adjusted operating income of $7 million for 2010 and $8 million in 2009. The net charge of $7 million in 2010 was driven by changes in lapse rate and fee-based profit margin assumptions which both decreased
expected future gross profits.    Revenues
   2011 to 2010 Annual
Comparison.    Revenues, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” decreased $312 million, from $5,183 million in 2010 to $4,871 million in 2011. Premiums decreased $286 million, driven by lower
life-contingent structured settlement and single premium annuity sales, partially offset by higher sales of non-participating group annuity separate accounts. The decrease in premiums resulted in a corresponding decrease in policyholders’
benefits, including the change in policy reserves, as discussed below. Net investment income decreased $60 million primarily reflecting lower portfolio yields and the unfavorable 
  119



Table of Contents

impact of changes in the market values of equity method alternative investments and equity investments in certain separate accounts. Policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and
other income increased $34 million, primarily driven by an increase in asset-based fees due to an increase in fee-based investment-only stable value account values in our institutional investment products business, and an increase in average full
service fee-based retirement account values. These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in the market values of certain alternative investments accounted for under the fair value option. 
  2010 to 2009 Annual
Comparison.    Revenues increased $524 million, from $4,659 million in 2009 to $5,183 million in 2010. Premiums increased $464 million, driven by higher life-contingent structured settlement and single premium annuity sales
which resulted in a corresponding increase in policyholders’ benefits, including the change in policy reserves, as discussed below. Policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income increased $131 million, primarily
driven by an increase in asset-based fees due to an increase in average full service fee-based retirement account values and an increase in fee-based investment-only stable value account values in our institutional investment products business, as
well as increased income from net settlements on interest rate swaps, as discussed above.    Partially offsetting these increases was a $71 million decrease in net investment income, primarily reflecting a smaller base of invested assets resulting from scheduled withdrawals of our general account
guaranteed investment products in our institutional investment products business, and lower portfolio yields, including lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets. Partially offsetting these declines were increases in net
investment income from an increase in income on equity method alternative investments as discussed above.   
Benefits and Expenses   
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under
“—Operating Results,” decreased $338 million, from $4,611 million in 2010 to $4,273 million in 2011. Absent the impact of the annual reviews and other adjustments to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of
business acquired discussed above, which account for a $17 million increase, benefits and expenses decreased $355 million. Policyholders’ benefits, including the change in policy reserves, decreased $254 million, primarily reflecting a decrease
in change in policy reserves associated with the decrease in premiums as discussed above. Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances decreased $119 million including a refinement to the methodology applied in calculating reserves for
certain structured settlement contracts, with an equally offsetting impact to amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. Also contributing to the decrease were lower crediting rates on full service general account stable value account values
due to rate resets and the impact of scheduled withdrawals on account values of our general account guaranteed investment products in our institutional investment products business, partially offset by the impact of higher account values from our
full service general account stable value products and our structured settlement products. The amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $24 million primarily driven by a refinement to the methodology applied in calculating the
amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs for certain structured settlement contracts, as mentioned above. Also, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, decreased $3 million, driven by lower commission expenses due to a
decline in life contingent structured settlement sales and lower charges related to certain cost reduction initiatives, partially offset by higher costs related to legal matters and strategic initiatives. In addition, interest expense decreased $3
million, reflecting lower interest rates.    2010
to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Benefits and expenses increased $446 million, from $4,165 million in 2009 to $4,611 million in 2010. Policyholders’ benefits, including the change in policy reserves, increased $468 million,
primarily reflecting an increase in change in policy reserves associated with the increase in premiums and a less favorable benefit from reserve refinements, as discussed above. Also, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization,
increased $67 million primarily driven by higher commission expenses, net of capitalization, higher asset management costs due to an increase in average full service fee-based retirement account values, and expenses incurred in 2010 related to
certain cost reduction initiatives. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in interest credited to policyholders’ account balances of $73 million, primarily reflecting a smaller base of account values resulting from scheduled
withdrawals of our general account guaranteed investment products in our institutional investment products business, lower crediting rates on floating rate guaranteed investment products, and lower crediting rates on full service stable value
account values due to rate resets. In addition, interest expense decreased $12 million reflecting lower interest rates and lower borrowings used to support investments. 
  120



Table of Contents
Sales Results and Account Values 
  The following table shows the changes in the account values
and net additions (withdrawals) of Retirement segment products for the periods indicated. Net additions (withdrawals) are deposits and sales or additions, as applicable, minus withdrawals and benefits. These concepts do not correspond to revenues
under U.S. GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Full Service(1):
  



 



 




 Beginning total account value
  
$
141,313
  
 
$
126,345
  
 
$
99,738
  

 Deposits and sales
  
 
16,821
  
 
 
19,266
  
 
 
23,188
  

 Withdrawals and benefits
  
 
(19,160
) 
 
 
(16,804
) 
 
 
(14,438
) 

 Change in market value, interest credited, interest income and other activity(2)
  
 
456
  
 
 
12,506
  
 
 
17,857
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending total account value
  
$
139,430
  
 
$
141,313
  
 
$
126,345
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net additions (withdrawals)
  
$
(2,339
) 
 
$
2,462
  
 
$
8,750
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Institutional Investment Products(3):
  



 



 




 Beginning total account value
  
$
64,183
  
 
$
51,908
  
 
$
50,491
  

 Additions(4)
  
 
27,773
  
 
 
15,298
  
 
 
7,786
  

 Withdrawals and benefits(5)
  
 
(6,150
) 
 
 
(6,958
) 
 
 
(7,817
) 

 Change in market value, interest credited and interest income
  
 
4,581
  
 
 
3,370
  
 
 
2,287
  

 Other(6)
  
 
(298
) 
 
 
565
  
 
 
(839
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending total account value(7)
  
$
90,089
  
 
$
64,183
  
 
$
51,908
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net additions (withdrawals)(7)
  
$
21,623
  
 
$
8,340
  
 
$
(31
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Ending total account value for the full service business includes assets of Prudential’s retirement plan of $5.8 billion, $5.8 billion and $5.4 billion as of
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 


(2)
 
Other activity includes $469 million in 2011 representing the addition of Prudential’s non-qualified pension plan transferred from a third party administrator.



(3)
 
Ending total account value for the institutional investment products business includes assets of Prudential’s retirement plan of $5.8 billion, $5.4 billion and
$5.2 billion as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Ending total account value for the institutional investment products business also includes $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 related to collateralized
funding agreements issued to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (FHLBNY), and $0.5 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to affiliated funding agreements issued using the
proceeds from the sale of Prudential Financial retail medium-term notes. For additional information regarding the FHLBNY and the retail medium-term notes program see, “—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 


(4)
 
Additions include $500 million in 2009 representing transfers of externally-managed client balances to accounts we manage. These additions are offset within Other, as
there is no net impact on ending account values for these transfers. 


(5)
 
Withdrawals and benefits include $(78) million, $(752) million and $(488) million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing transfers of client balances from
accounts we manage to externally-managed accounts. These withdrawals are offset within Other, as there is no net impact on ending account values for these transfers. 


(6)
 
Other includes transfers from (to) the Asset Management segment of $(415) million, $(164) million and $(11) million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Other also
includes $78 million, $752 million and $(12) million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing net transfers of externally-managed client balances from/(to) accounts we manage. These transfers are offset within Additions or Withdrawals and
benefits, as there is no net impact on ending account values for this transfer. Remaining amounts for all periods presented primarily represent changes in asset balances for externally-managed accounts. 


(7)
 
Ending total account value for the institutional investment products business includes investment-only stable value account values of $41.3 billion, $17.7 billion and
$4.8 billion as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net additions (withdrawals) for the institutional investment products business include investment-only stable value account value additions of $23.9 billion, $12.6 billion and
$4.8 billion for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Account values in our full service business amounted to $139.4 billion as of December 31, 2011 representing a decrease of $1.9 billion
from December 31, 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by net withdrawals over the last twelve months. Net additions (withdrawals) decreased $4.8 billion, from net additions of $2.5 billion in 2010 to net withdrawals of $2.3 billion in 2011,
primarily reflecting lower new plan sales and higher plan lapses. New plan sales in 2011 included five client sales over $100 million totaling $922 million compared to twelve client sales over $100 million in 2010 totaling $3.3 billion. The increase
in plan lapses was primarily driven by higher account values and a higher volume of large plan lapses in 2011. 
  121



Table of Contents
Account values in our institutional investment products business amounted to $90.1 billion
as of December 31, 2011, representing an increase of $25.9 billion from December 31, 2010. The increase was driven by additions of our fee-based investment-only stable value and structured settlements products, as well as sales of our
longevity reinsurance product, which we introduced in 2011. To a lesser extent, the increase in account values was also driven by increases in the market value of customer funds primarily from declines in fixed income yields, partially offset by
decreases in account values from declines in general account guaranteed investment product account values due to scheduled withdrawals and benefit payments. Net additions increased $13.3 billion, from $8.3 billion in 2010 to $21.6 billion in 2011
primarily reflecting higher sales of our fee-based investment-only stable value and longevity reinsurance products, and lower general account guaranteed investment product scheduled withdrawals. 
  2010 to 2009 Annual
Comparison.    Account values in our full service business amounted to $141.3 billion as of December 31, 2010, an increase of $15.0 billion from December 31, 2009 primarily driven by an increase in the market value
of customer funds due to favorable equity markets and, to a lesser extent, net additions in 2010. Net additions decreased $6.3 billion, from $8.8 billion in 2009 to $2.5 billion in 2010, primarily reflecting lower new plan sales, as 2009 included
significant large plan sales, and, to a lesser extent, higher plan lapses. New plan sales in 2010 included twelve client sales over $100 million totaling $3.3 billion compared to twelve client sales over $100 million in 2009, which totaled $7.5
billion.    Account values in our institutional
investment products business amounted to $64.2 billion as of December 31, 2010, an increase of $12.3 billion from December 31, 2009. The increase in account values was primarily driven by additions of fee-based investment-only stable value
products and increases in the market value of customer funds, primarily from a decline in fixed income market yields and interest credited on general account liabilities. These increases were partially offset by declines in general account
guaranteed investment product account values due to scheduled withdrawals. Net additions (withdrawals) increased $8.4 billion, from net withdrawals of $31 million in 2009 to net additions of $8.3 billion in 2010 primarily reflecting higher sales of
fee-based investment-only stable value products and lower general account guaranteed investment product scheduled withdrawals.   
Asset Management   
Operating Results   
The following table sets forth the Asset Management segment’s operating results for the periods indicated. 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
  
  2009  
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Operating results:
  



 



  




 Revenues
  
$
2,311
  
 
$
1,888
  
  
$
1,257
  

 Expenses
  
 
1,652
  
 
 
1,401
  
  
 
1,202
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Adjusted operating income
  
 
659
  
 
 
487
  
  
 
55
  

 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1)
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
13
  
  
 
(32
) 

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(2)
  
 
98
  
 
 
29
  
  
 
(14
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
756
  
 
$
529
  
  
$
9
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account
Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.” 


(2)
 
Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and
equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after-tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from
adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of
Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represent the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relate to the equity interests of minority investors. 
  122



Table of Contents
Adjusted Operating Income    2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Adjusted operating income increased $172 million,
from $487 million in 2010 to $659 million in 2011. Results in 2011 reflect an increase in asset management fees, before associated expenses, of $194 million primarily from retail and institutional customer assets as a result of higher asset values
due to positive net asset flows primarily into fixed income accounts as well as market appreciation. In addition, results from the segment’s commercial mortgage activities increased $77 million primarily driven by lower net credit and
valuation-related charges on interim loans of $64 million resulting primarily from loan payoffs in 2011 and $20 million of higher gains on sales of foreclosed commercial real estate assets in 2011. Also contributing to the increase in adjusted
operating income was an increase in results of the segment’s strategic investing activities of $68 million primarily due to a $64 million gain resulting from the partial sale of a real estate seed investment in 2011. 
  These increases were partially offset by increased operating
expenses, primarily related to compensation as well as other costs supporting the business.    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Adjusted operating income increased $432 million, from $55 million in 2009 to $487 million in 2010 primarily reflecting more favorable results
from commercial mortgage activities and more favorable investment results from strategic investing activities, as well as increased asset management fees. Asset management fees increased $224 million, before associated expenses, primarily from
retail and institutional customer assets as a result of higher asset values due to market appreciation and positive net asset flows. Results from the segment’s commercial mortgage activities increased primarily driven by lower net credit and
valuation-related charges on interim loans of $190 million.    Results from strategic investing activities increased $103 million, from a loss of $70 million in 2009 to income of $33 million in 2010, primarily due to improved results in real estate and fixed income
investments. Real estate strategic investing results in 2009 reflect losses of $70 million, compared to income of $16 million in 2010, primarily reflecting the impact of declines in real estate values on co-investments and seed investments in the
prior year. Results in 2009 also reflect losses of $11 million in a fixed income fund compared to zero in 2010. The Asset Management segment redeemed its entire investment in the fixed income fund as of June 30, 2009. In addition, strategic
investing fixed income investment results in 2009 included impairments of $10 million on collateralized debt obligations, which as of December 31, 2010, have an amortized cost of zero.    Results in 2010 also reflect an increase in performance-based incentive fees primarily related to institutional
real estate funds. These increases were partially offset by an increase in compensation expenses and lower income related to securities lending activities.   
Revenues   
The following tables set forth the Asset Management segment’s revenues, presented on a basis consistent with the table above under
“—Operating Results,” by type and asset management fees by source for the periods indicated.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010(4)
 
  
2009(4)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Revenues by type:
  



  



  




 Asset management fees by source:
  



  



  




 Institutional customers
  
$
714
  
  
$
626
  
  
$
511
  

 Retail customers(1)
  
 
426
  
  
 
353
  
  
 
268
  

 General account
  
 
327
  
  
 
294
  
  
 
270
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total asset management fees
  
 
1,467
  
  
 
1,273
  
  
 
1,049
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Incentive fees
  
 
50
  
  
 
71
  
  
 
49
  

 Transaction fees
  
 
35
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
27
  

 Strategic investing
  
 
118
  
  
 
49
  
  
 
(41
) 

 Commercial mortgage(2)
  
 
136
  
  
 
67
  
  
 
(114
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total incentive, transaction, strategic investing and commercial mortgage revenues
  
 
339
  
  
 
210
  
  
 
(79
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Service, distribution and other revenues(3)
  
 
505
  
  
 
405
  
  
 
287
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
$
2,311
  
  
$
1,888
  
  
$
1,257
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  123



Table of Contents
 


(1)
 
Consists of fees from: (a) individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance asset management revenues from our separate accounts;
(b) funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products; and (c) third-party sub-advisory relationships. Revenues from fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of both variable annuities and
variable life insurance are included in the general account. 


(2)
 
Includes mortgage origination and spread lending revenues of our commercial mortgage origination and servicing business. 


(3)
 
Includes payments from Wells Fargo under an agreement dated as of July 30, 2004 implementing arrangements with respect to money market mutual funds in connection
with the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wells Fargo. The agreement extends for ten years after termination of the Wachovia Securities joint venture, which occurred on December 31, 2009. The
revenue from Wells Fargo under this agreement was $74 million in 2011, $66 million in 2010 and $61 million in 2009. 


(4)
 
Reflects reclassifications to conform to current year presentation. 
  2011 to 2010 Annual
Comparison.    Revenues, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $423 million, from $1,888 million in 2010 to $2,311 million in 2011. Asset management fees increased $194 million
primarily from institutional and retail customer assets as a result of higher asset values from positive net asset flows and market appreciation. Service, distribution and other revenues increased $100 million from higher mutual fund service fees, a
portion of which are offset with a corresponding increase in expenses. Service, distribution and other revenues also includes higher revenues from certain consolidated funds, which were fully offset by higher expenses related to noncontrolling
interest in these funds. Commercial mortgage revenues increased $69 million primarily reflecting lower net credit and valuation-related charges on interim loans and higher gains on sales of foreclosed real estate assets, as discussed above.
Strategic investing revenues increased $69 million resulting from a $64 million gain on a partial sale of a real estate seed investment in 2011.   
Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in performance-based incentive fees of $21 million primarily driven by lower net asset
values of institutional real estate funds reflecting the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on these funds in the prior year, a portion of which has been hedged since late 2010, as well as a decline in real estate values in 2011. A portion of
these incentive-based fees are offset in incentive compensation expense in accordance with the terms of the contractual agreements. Certain of our incentive fees continue to be subject to positive or negative future adjustment based on cumulative
fund performance in relation to specified benchmarks. As of December 31, 2011, $92 million of cumulative incentive fee revenue, net of compensation, is subject to future adjustment, compared to $146 million as of December 31, 2010. Future
incentive, transaction, strategic investing and commercial mortgage revenues will be impacted by the level and diversification of our strategic investments, the commercial real estate market conditions, and other domestic and international market
conditions.    2010 to 2009 Annual
Comparison.    Revenues increased $631 million, from $1,257 million in 2009 to $1,888 million in 2010. Asset management fees increased $224 million primarily from institutional and retail customer assets as a result of higher
asset values from market appreciation and positive net asset flows. Commercial mortgage revenues increased $181 million primarily reflecting lower net credit and valuation-related charges on interim loans, as discussed above. Service, distribution
and other revenues increased $118 million primarily from higher mutual fund service fees and assets under management, with a corresponding increase in expense. Also contributing to the increase were higher revenues in certain consolidated real
estate funds, which were fully offset by higher expenses related to noncontrolling interests in these funds. Strategic investing revenues increased $90 million reflecting improved results in real estate and fixed income investments, as discussed
above. In addition, incentive fees increased $22 million primarily related to institutional real estate funds. A portion of these incentive-based fees are offset in incentive compensation expense in accordance with the terms of the contractual
agreements. Certain of our incentive fees continue to be subject to positive or negative future adjustment based on cumulative fund performance in relation to specified benchmarks. As of December 31, 2010, $146 million of cumulative incentive
fee revenue, net of compensation, is subject to future adjustment, compared to $150 million as of December 31, 2009.   
Expenses   
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Expenses, as shown in the table above under “—Operating
Results,” increased $251 million, from $1,401 million in 2010 to $1,652 million in 2011 primarily driven by increased compensation costs, from increased revenues, as discussed above, and increased headcount, as well as increases in other costs
supporting the business. In addition, expenses related to revenues associated with certain consolidated funds and mutual funds services increased, as discussed above. 
  124



Table of Contents
2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Expenses increased $199
million, from $1,202 million in 2009 to $1,401 million in 2010 primarily driven by increased compensation costs due to higher incentive compensation, from increased revenues, as discussed above. In addition, expenses related to revenues associated
with certain consolidated real estate funds and mutual funds services increased, as discussed above.   
Assets Under Management   
The following tables set forth assets under management by asset class and source as of the dates indicated and net additions, excluding
money market activity, by source for the periods indicated. In managing our business, we analyze assets under management, which do not correspond to U.S. GAAP assets, because the principal source of revenues are fees based on assets under
management.   
















 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in billions)
 

 Assets Under Management (at fair market value):
  



  



  




 Institutional customers:
  



  



  




 Equity
  
$
44.2
  
  
$
51.3
  
  
$
47.9
  

 Fixed income
  
 
197.2
  
  
 
160.4
  
  
 
120.3
  

 Real estate
  
 
27.7
  
  
 
23.6
  
  
 
20.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Institutional customers(1)(2)
  
 
269.1
  
  
 
235.3
  
  
 
188.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Retail customers:
  



  



  




 Equity
  
 
70.8
  
  
 
72.7
  
  
 
58.2
  

 Fixed income
  
 
45.7
  
  
 
27.0
  
  
 
24.6
  

 Real estate
  
 
1.4
  
  
 
1.5
  
  
 
1.6
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Retail customers(3)
  
 
117.9
  
  
 
101.2
  
  
 
84.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 General account:
  



  



  




 Equity
  
 
4.2
  
  
 
4.1
  
  
 
3.7
  

 Fixed income
  
 
226.6
  
  
 
195.8
  
  
 
179.3
  

 Real estate
  
 
1.3
  
  
 
0.9
  
  
 
1.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 General account
  
 
232.1
  
  
 
200.8
  
  
 
184.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets under management
  
$
619.1
  
  
$
537.3
  
  
$
456.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 

 
  
(in billions)
 

 Net additions, excluding money market activity:
  



 



 




 Third party:
  



 



 




 Institutional customers(4)
  
$
16.7
  
 
$
28.6
  
 
$
13.0
  

 Retail customers
  
 
3.5
  
 
 
6.4
  
 
 
6.1
  

 Affiliated:
  



 



 




 Institutional customers
  
 
(2.8
) 
 
 
(1.5
) 
 
 
(0.6
) 

 Retail customers
  
 
14.4
  
 
 
1.9
  
 
 
(1.4
) 

 General account
  
 
14.3
  
 
 
0.5
  
 
 
(5.1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net additions, excluding money market activity
  
$
46.1
  
 
$
35.9
  
 
$
12.0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Consists of third party institutional assets and group insurance contracts. 


(2)
 
As of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, includes $29.7 billion, $17.7 billion, and $4.0 billion, respectively, of assets under management related to
investment-only stable value products. 


(3)
 
Consists of: (a) individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance assets in our separate accounts; (b) funds invested in
proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products; and (c) third-party sub-advisory relationships. Fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the
general account. 


(4)
 
As of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, includes $10.0 billion, $10.2 billion, and $0.7 billion, respectively, of net additions related to investment-only stable
value products. 
  125



Table of Contents
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Assets under management were
$619.1 billion at December 31, 2011, an increase of $81.8 billion from December 31, 2010. Institutional assets under management increased $33.8 billion from 2010 to 2011 driven by market appreciation of $19.7 billion, as well as net
additions of $16.7 billion from third party clients, primarily from positive flows into fixed income accounts, including $10.0 billion of net additions associated with investment-only stable value products. Retail assets under management increased
$16.7 billion from 2010 to 2011 primarily from a net increase in affiliated assets under management of $14.1 billion, primarily from variable annuity assets rebalancing into a fixed income fund, as well as net additions of $3.5 billion from third
party clients. General account assets increased $31.3 billion primarily driven by $15.2 billion in net additions from the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses and fixed income market appreciation of $17.2 billion. 
  2010 to 2009 Annual
Comparison.    Assets under management were $537.3 billion at December 31, 2010, an increase of $80.5 billion from December 31, 2009. Institutional assets under management increased $46.9 billion from 2009 to 2010
driven by market appreciation of $20.6 billion, as well as net additions of $28.6 billion from third party clients, primarily from positive flows into fixed income accounts, including $10.2 billion of net additions associated with investment-only
stable value products. Retail assets under management increased $16.8 billion from 2009 to 2010 driven primarily by market appreciation of $10.9 billion, as well as third-party net additions of $6.4 billion, primarily from positive net flows into
equity accounts from existing clients. General account assets increased $16.8 billion driven by market appreciation.   
Strategic Investments   
The following table sets forth the strategic investments of the Asset Management segment at carrying value (including the value of
derivative instruments used to mitigate equity market and currency risk) by asset class and source as of the dates indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Co-Investments:
  



  




 Real Estate
  
$
464
  
  
$
361
  

 Fixed Income
  
 
30
  
  
 
29
  

 Seed Investments:
  



  




 Real Estate
  
 
19
  
  
 
251
  

 Public Equity
  
 
189
  
  
 
119
  

 Fixed Income
  
 
200
  
  
 
102
  

 Loans Secured by Investor Equity Commitments or Fund Assets:
  



  




 Real Estate secured by Investor Equity
  
 
50
  
  
 
2
  

 Private Equity secured by Investor Equity
  
 
61
  
  
 
14
  

 Real Estate secured by Fund Assets
  
 
99
  
  
 
198
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,112
  
  
$
1,076
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Commercial Mortgage
Interim Loan Portfolio    The following table
sets forth information regarding the interim loan portfolio of the Asset Management segment’s commercial mortgage operations as of the dates indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Interim Loan Portfolio:
  



 




 Principal balance of loans outstanding(1)
  
$
648
  
 
$
1,336
  

 Allowance for credit or valuation-related losses
  
$
44
  
 
$
168
  

 Weighted average loan-to-value ratio(2)(3)
  
 
93
% 
 
 
108
% 

 Weighted average debt service coverage ratio(2)
  
 
1.52
  
 
 
1.24
  
  


(1)
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, excludes $10 million and $29 million, respectively, of commitments for future fundings that would need to be disbursed if
borrowers meet the conditions for these fundings and $44 million and $69 million, respectively, of commercial real estate held for sale related to foreclosed interim loans. 
  126



Table of Contents


(2)
 
A stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios. 


(3)
 
For those loans where the loan amount is greater than the collateral value, the excess of the loan amount over the collateral value was $42 million and $171 million as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division   
Individual Life   
Operating Results   
The following table sets forth the Individual Life segment’s operating results for the periods indicated. 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Operating results:
  



 



 




 Revenues
  
$
2,900
  
 
$
2,815
  
 
$
2,768
  

 Benefits and expenses
  
 
2,383
  
 
 
2,315
  
 
 
2,206
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted operating income
  
 
517
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
562
  

 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1)
  
 
(21
) 
 
 
(39
) 
 
 
134
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
496
  
 
$
461
  
 
$
696
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account
Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.”    Adjusted Operating Income    2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Adjusted operating income increased $17 million, from $500 million in 2010 to $517 million in 2011. Results for both periods include a benefit
from lower amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, net of related unearned revenue reserves and net decreases in insurance reserves, reflecting updates of our actuarial assumptions based on annual reviews. The annual reviews cover
assumptions used in our estimates of total gross profits which form the basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, as well as the reserve for the guaranteed minimum death benefit feature in certain
contracts. Results in 2011 included a $75 million benefit from the annual reviews, primarily reflecting updates to our persistency assumptions as a result of more favorable lapse experience on variable life policies, and improved mortality based on
experience. Adjusted operating income for 2010 included a $52 million benefit from the annual reviews, primarily reflecting methodology refinements to the treatment of certain investment income in our assumptions, as well as improved mortality based
on experience.    Absent the effect of these items,
adjusted operating income for 2011 decreased $6 million from 2010 including a $23 million increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, resulting from changes in our estimates
of total gross profits arising from separate account fund performance, which is described in more detail below. This increase in amortization largely reflects the impact of equity markets on separate account fund performance in the respective
periods. The decrease in adjusted operating income also reflects the decline in earnings from our variable products primarily due to the runoff of variable policies in force. These decreases to adjusted operating income were partially offset by
higher net investment spread income driven by higher asset balances supporting growth in our universal life insurance products, as well as the impact from mortality experience, net of reinsurance, which was $12 million less unfavorable relative to
expected levels, compared to 2010.    The changes in
our estimates of total gross profits arising from separate account fund performance, as discussed above, reflects the impact on our estimates of total gross profits of the difference between our actual quarterly rate of return on separate accounts
compared to our previously expected quarterly rate of return. The 
  127



Table of Contents

following table shows the actual quarterly rate of return on separate accounts for the four quarters of 2011 and 2010 compared to our previously expected quarterly rate of return used in our
estimates of total gross profits.   




































 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 
 
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 

 Actual rate of return
  
 
4.4
% 
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
(11.6
)% 
 
 
7.0
% 
 
 
3.8
% 
 
 
(7.4
)% 
 
 
8.3
% 
 
 
7.3
% 

 Expected rate of return
  
 
2.2
% 
 
 
2.0
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.6
% 
 
 
2.6
% 
 
 
2.6
% 
 
 
2.5
% 
   The overall lower than
expected market returns in 2011 resulted in a decrease in total future gross profits by establishing a lower starting point for the fund balances used in estimating those profits in future periods. The decrease in our estimates of total gross
profits resulted in a $9 million net expense in 2011 reflecting a higher required rate of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, partially offset by a higher required rate of amortization of unearned revenue reserves. The overall actual
rate of return on separate account funds for 2010 was higher than our expected rate of return which resulted in an increase in total future gross profits by establishing a higher starting point for the fund balances used in estimating those profits
in future periods. The increase in our estimates of total gross profits resulted in a $14 million net benefit in 2010 reflecting a lower required rate of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, partially offset by a lower required rate of
amortization of unearned revenue reserves. For a further discussion of the assumptions, including our current near-term and long-term projected rates of return, used in estimating total gross profits used as the basis for amortizing deferred policy
acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, see “—Accounting Policies & Pronouncements—Application of Critical Accounting Estimates.” 
  2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating
income decreased $62 million, from $562 million in 2009 to $500 million in 2010. Results in 2010 included a $52 million benefit from lower amortization of net deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, as well as a decrease in
reserves for the guaranteed minimum death benefit feature in certain contracts, reflecting updates of our actuarial assumptions based on an annual review, compared to a $55 million benefit from the annual review in 2009. The annual reviews cover
assumptions used in our estimates of total gross profits which form the basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, as well as the reserve for the guaranteed minimum death benefit feature in certain
contracts. Results in 2009 also included a $30 million benefit from compensation received based on multi-year profitability of third-party products we distribute. These compensation arrangements are subject to renegotiations periodically which will
affect the amount of additional compensation we are eligible to receive. The largest of these arrangements was renegotiated in 2008 and the profit opportunities were reduced significantly in 2010 and beyond resulting in a benefit of less than $1
million in 2010.    Absent the effect of these
items, adjusted operating income in 2010 decreased $29 million, including $33 million from mortality experience, net of reinsurance, which was slightly unfavorable relative to expected levels in 2010, compared to favorable mortality experience in
2009. The decrease in adjusted operating income also reflects a $17 million increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, reflecting a net expense of $1 million in 2010
compared to a net benefit of $16 million in 2009, resulting from changes in our estimates of total gross profits primarily from variable products arising from separate account fund performance and policyholder experience. This increase in
amortization largely reflects the impact of equity markets on separate account fund performance in the respective periods, partially offset by the impact of policyholder persistency which in 2010 returned to levels that are more consistent with
expectations. The decline in our in force block of variable life business also contributed to the decrease in adjusted operating income. Partially offsetting the decrease in adjusted operating income was higher net investment income from an increase
in assets supporting our term and universal life products, growth in universal life policyholder account balances and the impact of gains in 2010 on investments in real property separate account funds compared to losses in 2009. 
  Revenues 
  2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in
the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $85 million, from $2,815 million in 2010 to $2,900 million in 2011. Net investment income increased $75 million reflecting higher asset balances supporting growth in our universal
life insurance products including higher account balances resulting from increased policyholder deposits and higher regulatory capital requirements. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income increased $8 million. This

  128



Table of Contents

increase included a $24 million reduction in amortization of unearned revenue reserves due to annual reviews of assumptions. Absent this item, policy charges and fees and asset management fees
and other income increased $32 million driven by an increase in current period amortization of unearned revenue reserves due to changes in our estimates of total gross profits primarily reflecting the impact of less favorable market conditions on
separate account fund performance in 2011 compared to 2010, as well as the impact of higher actual gross profits during the period. These increases were partially offset by a decline in revenue from our variable insurance products, primarily due to
the runoff of variable policies in force.    2010
to 2009 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $47 million, from $2,768 million in 2009 to $2,815 million in 2010. Net investment income increased $94 million, due to an increase in assets supporting our term and universal life products and
growth in universal life and variable policyholder account balances due to increased policyholder deposits, as well as gains in 2010 on investments in real property separate account funds compared to losses in 2009. Premiums increased $28 million,
primarily due to growth of our in force block of term insurance. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income decreased $75 million including a $31 million decrease in amortization of unearned revenue reserves due to annual
reviews of assumptions, and a $30 million decrease in compensation received based on multi-year profitability of third-party products we distribute, as discussed above. Absent these items policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other
income decreased $14 million, driven by a decrease in amortization of unearned revenue reserves reflecting the impact of policyholder persistency which, in 2010, returned to levels more consistent with expectations and mortality experience,
partially offset by an increase in the amortization of unearned revenue reserves from the impact of less favorable market conditions on separate account fund performance in 2010. The decrease in policy charges and fees and asset management fees and
other income also reflected higher costs on net settlements of interest rate swaps associated with our floating rate debt due to lower interest rates in 2010, offset by lower interest expense, as discussed below, partially offset by an increase in
asset management fees resulting from higher separate account fund balances.    Benefits and Expenses    2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $68 million, from $2,315 million in 2010 to $2,383 million in
2011. Absent the impact of annual reviews conducted in both periods, benefits and expenses increased $115 million, from $2,468 million in 2010 to $2,583 million in 2011. On this basis, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $26
million driven by changes in estimated total gross profits primarily reflecting the impact of less favorable market conditions on separate account fund performance in 2011 compared to 2010, as well as the impact of higher actual gross profits on
current period amortization. Absent the impact of the annual reviews, policyholders’ benefits, including interest credited to policyholders’ account balances, increased $15 million primarily reflecting an increase in interest credited to
policyholders from higher universal life account balances from increased policyholder deposits and increases in policyholder reserves driven by growth in our term and universal life blocks of business. Partially offsetting the increase in
policyholders’ benefits, including interest credited to policyholders’ account balances, was less unfavorable mortality experience of $12 million in 2011 compared to 2010. Interest expense increased $52 million primarily reflecting higher
borrowings related to the financing of regulatory capital requirements associated with statutory reserves for certain term and universal life insurance policies. 
  2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses
increased $109 million, from $2,206 million in 2009 to $2,315 million in 2010. Absent the net $28 million decrease from the impacts of the annual reviews conducted in both periods, benefits and expenses increased $137 million, from $2,331 million in
2009 to $2,468 million in 2010. Absent the impact of the annual reviews, policyholders’ benefits, including interest credited to policyholders, increased $141 million due to growth in universal life and variable policyholder account balances,
increases in policyholder reserves, and growth in our in force block of term and universal life business. In addition, mortality experience was slightly unfavorable, relative to expected levels in 2010, compared to favorable mortality experience in
2009 contributing $33 million to the increase in policyholder benefits. Also absent the impact of the annual reviews, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $23 million primarily due to the less favorable impact of equity
markets on separate account fund performance, partially offset by both the impact of policyholder persistency which in 2010 returned to levels more consistent with expectations, as well as mortality experience. Partially offsetting these items was a
decrease in interest expense of $19 million primarily driven by a decline in interest rates on floating rate debt. This floating rate debt is swapped to a fixed rate using interest rate swaps. 
  129



Table of Contents
Sales Results 
  The following table sets forth individual life insurance
annualized new business premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our individual life insurance business, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, because annualized new business
premiums measure the current sales performance of the business, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new
business premiums include 10% of first year excess premiums and deposits.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Annualized New Business Premiums(1):
  



  



  




 Variable Life
  
$
25
  
  
$
23
  
  
$
20
  

 Universal Life
  
 
95
  
  
 
77
  
  
 
113
  

 Term Life
  
 
158
  
  
 
160
  
  
 
226
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
278
  
  
$
260
  
  
$
359
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Annualized new business premiums by distribution channel(1):
  



  



  




 Prudential Agents
  
$
84
  
  
$
84
  
  
$
95
  

 Third party
  
 
194
  
  
 
176
  
  
 
264
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
278
  
  
$
260
  
  
$
359
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Annualized scheduled premiums plus 10% of excess (unscheduled) and single premiums from new sales. Excludes corporate-owned life insurance. 
  2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life
insurance, measured as described above, increased $18 million, from $260 million in 2010 to $278 million in 2011, primarily driven by increased sales in the third party distribution channel reflecting a $18 million increase in sales of universal
life insurance products driven by a change in the competitive position of our products due to pricing.   
2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, measured as described above, decreased $99 million, from $359 million
in 2009 to $260 million in 2010. The decrease in sales is primarily due to a $66 million decrease in term life product sales and a $36 million decrease in sales of universal life products driven by lower third party distribution sales. Sales from
the third party distribution channel were $88 million lower than 2009 due to lower sales of universal life and term life products, both of which were impacted by price increases implemented in 2009. Sales by Prudential Agents were $11 million lower
than 2009 primarily due to lower sales of both universal life products and term life products.    Policy Surrender Experience    The following table sets forth the individual life insurance business’ policy surrender experience for variable and universal life insurance, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods
indicated. These amounts do not correspond to expenses under U.S. GAAP. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us,
a driver of future profitability. Generally, our term life insurance products do not provide for cash surrender values.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Cash value of surrenders
  
$
778
  
 
$
697
  
 
$
855
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future benefit reserves, policyholders’ account balances, and separate
account balances
  
 
3.3
% 
 
 
3.0
% 
 
 
4.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  130



Table of Contents
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $81
million, from $697 million in 2010 to $778 million in 2011, driven by the surrenders of three large variable corporate-owned life insurance policies during 2011. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves,
policyholders’ account balances and separate account balances increased from 3.0% in 2010 to 3.3% in 2011 as a result of these large surrenders.   
2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders decreased $158 million, from $855 million in 2009 to $697
million in 2010, as surrenders in 2010 returned to levels that are more consistent with expectations compared to 2009. 2009 reflects a greater volume of surrenders, including lapses to extended term, of variable life insurance, due primarily to
market conditions at the time and policyholders electing to surrender their policies rather than make premium payments or the contractually required deposits needed to keep the policies in force. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean
future policy benefit reserves, policyholders’ account balances and separate account balances decreased from 4.2% in 2009 to 3.0% in 2010, driven by a decrease in the total cash value of surrenders as described above, as well as higher average
account balances primarily driven by market appreciation during 2010.    Group Insurance    Operating Results    The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segment’s operating results for the periods indicated.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Operating results:
  



 



 




 Revenues
  
$
6,068
  
 
$
5,458
  
 
$
5,285
  

 Benefits and expenses
  
 
5,860
  
 
 
5,243
  
 
 
4,954
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted operating income
  
 
208
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
331
  

 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1)
  
 
59
  
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
(227
) 

 Related charges(2)
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
265
  
 
$
193
  
 
$
97
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account
Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.” 


(2)
 
Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on interest credited to
policyholders’ account balances.   
Adjusted Operating Income   
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $7 million, from $215 million in 2010 to $208 million in 2011.
Reserve refinements in both group life and group disability businesses, including the impact of annual reviews, contributed a $26 million benefit to adjusted operating income in 2011 compared to a benefit of $28 million in 2010. Excluding these
reserve refinements, adjusted operating income decreased $5 million primarily from less favorable group disability underwriting results in 2011 primarily related to an increase in the number and severity of long-term disability claims reflecting the
continued economic downturn. In addition, the decrease in adjusted operating income reflects higher operating expenses in 2011 resulting from business growth and strategic initiatives as well as a decrease in investment results in 2011 due to less
favorable results from alternative investments and the impact of the current low interest rate environment on portfolio yields. These decreases were partially offset by more favorable underwriting results in 2011 in our group life business related
to favorable claims experience and growth in our non-retrospectively experience-rated business. In addition, 2011 included a $14 million benefit from cumulative premium adjustments relating to prior periods on two large group life
non-retrospectively experience-rated cases. 
  131



Table of Contents
2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $116 million,
from $331 million in 2009 to $215 million in 2010. Results reflected a net benefit of $28 million in 2010, from reserve refinements in both the group life and group disability businesses, including the impact of annual reviews, compared to a net
benefit of zero in 2009. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income decreased $144 million primarily reflecting less favorable underwriting results in 2010 on group life non-retrospectively experience-rated business largely due to the lapse of
certain business and repricing of other business up for renewal with favorable claims experience in 2009, reflecting the competitive market, as well as less favorable claims experience due to an increase in the number and severity of claims. In
addition, underwriting results reflect less favorable long-term disability claims experience in 2010 consistent with the economic downturn. Also contributing to the decrease in adjusted operating income were higher operating expenses primarily to
support disability operations and expansion into the group dental market, and an unfavorable impact from the refinement of a premium tax estimate.   
Revenues   
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $610
million, from $5,458 million in 2010 to $6,068 million in 2011. Group life premiums and policy charges and fee income increased $526 million, from $3,539 million in 2010 to $4,065 million in 2011. This increase primarily reflects higher premiums
from non-retrospectively experience-rated contracts reflecting growth in the business from new sales and continued strong persistency of 95.8% in 2011 compared to 92.1% in 2010, as well as higher premiums from retrospectively experience-rated
contracts resulting from the increase in policyholder benefits on these contracts, as discussed below. 2011 also includes an increase of $14 million from premium adjustments on two large group life non-retrospectively experience-rated cases, as
discussed above. In addition, group disability premiums and policy charges and fee income, which include long-term care and dental products, increased by $71 million, from $1,146 million in 2010 to $1,217 million in 2011 primarily reflecting growth
of business in force and from new sales partially offset by higher premiums in 2010 associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, which is offset in policyholders’ benefits, as discussed below. Also, contributing to
the increase in revenue is higher investment income in 2011 primarily from higher invested assets due to growth in the businesses offset by lower portfolio yields and lower income on alternative investments in 2011. 
  2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased by
$173 million, from $5,285 million in 2009 to $5,458 million in 2010. Group life premiums and policy charges and fee income increased by $125 million, from $3,414 million in 2009 to $3,539 million in 2010, primarily reflecting higher premiums from
retrospectively experience-rated group life business resulting from the increase in policyholder benefits on these contracts as discussed below. Also contributing to the increase were higher premiums from non-retrospectively experience-rated group
life business primarily reflecting growth of business in force resulting from new sales, partially offset by a decrease in premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, which is offset in policyholders’
benefits, as discussed below, as well as the lapse of certain business and repricing of other business up for renewal, as discussed above. Group disability premiums and policy charges and fee income, which include long-term care and dental products,
increased by $25 million, from $1,121 million in 2009 to $1,146 million in 2010. This increase primarily reflects higher premiums due to growth of business in force resulting from new sales, and continued strong persistency of 92.1% in 2010 compared
to 90.9% in 2009, partially offset by a decrease in premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, which is offset in policyholders’ benefits, as discussed below. 
  132



Table of Contents
Benefits and Expenses    The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segment’s benefits and administrative operating expense
ratios for the periods indicated.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Benefits ratio(1):
  



 



 




 Group life
  
 
89.5
% 
 
 
89.7
% 
 
 
88.4
% 

 Group disability
  
 
97.5
% 
 
 
94.7
% 
 
 
88.9
% 

 Administrative operating expense ratio(2):
  



 



 




 Group life
  
 
8.3
% 
 
 
8.8
% 
 
 
9.0
% 

 Group disability
  
 
21.4
% 
 
 
21.3
% 
 
 
18.3
% 
  


(1)
 
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long-term care and dental products.



(2)
 
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long-term care and
dental products.    2011 to 2010
Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $617 million, from $5,243 million in 2010 to $5,860 million in 2011. This increase reflects a $566 million increase in
policyholders’ benefits, including the change in policy reserves, from $4,259 million in 2010 to $4,825 million in 2011. Our group life business reflected an increase in policyholders’ benefits primarily from growth in the business,
including an increase in benefits on retrospectively experience-rated business that resulted in increased premiums, as discussed above. Our group disability business reflected an increase in policyholders’ benefits primarily from an increase in
the number and severity of disability claims, as well as growth in the business, partially offset by the effect of the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties in 2010, which is offset in premiums, as discussed above. Also contributing
to the increase in benefits and expenses were higher operating expenses primarily related to business growth and strategic initiatives.   
The group life benefits ratio improved 0.2 percentage points from 2010 to 2011, primarily due to favorable claims experience, partially
offset by an unfavorable variance from the impact of reserve refinements, including the impact of annual reviews, in 2011, as discussed above. The group disability benefits ratio deteriorated 2.8 percentage points from 2010 to 2011 primarily due to
unfavorable long-term disability claims experience, partially offset by a favorable variance from the impact of reserve refinements, including the impact of annual reviews, in 2011, as discussed above. The group life administrative operating expense
ratio improved 0.5 percentage points from 2010 to 2011 due to business growth without a commensurate increase in expenses and a favorable impact from the refinement of a premium tax estimate. The group disability administrative operating expense
ratio was relatively unchanged from 2010 to 2011 as the impact from higher expenses in 2011 primarily from business growth and strategic initiatives was offset by a favorable impact from the refinement of a premium tax estimate. 
  2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses,
as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased by $289 million, from $4,954 million in 2009 to $5,243 million in 2010. This increase reflects a $243 million increase in policyholders’ benefits, including the
change in policy reserves, from $4,016 million in 2009 to $4,259 million in 2010, from both group life and group disability businesses. Our group life business reflected an increase in policyholders’ benefits from less favorable claims
experience, including an increase in benefits on retrospectively experience-rated business that resulted in increased premiums, partially offset by the benefit of reserve refinements in 2010 and a decrease in policyholder benefits associated with
the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, which is offset in premiums, as discussed above. Our group disability business also reflected less favorable claims experience, partially offset by a decrease in policyholder benefits
associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, which is offset in premiums, as discussed above. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses were higher operating expenses, as discussed above. 
  The group life benefits ratio deteriorated 1.3 percentage
points from 2009 to 2010, due to less favorable claims experience due to an increase in the number and severity of claims, as well as the lapse of certain business and repricing of other business up for renewal with favorable claims experience in
2009, reflecting the 
  133



Table of Contents

competitive market, partially offset by the favorable impact of the reserve refinements. The group disability benefits ratio deteriorated 5.8 percentage points from 2009 to 2010, primarily due to
less favorable long-term disability claims experience combined with an unfavorable impact from reserve refinements, including the impact of the annual reviews. The group life administrative operating expense ratio was relatively unchanged from 2009
to 2010. The group disability administrative operating expense ratio deteriorated 3.0 percentage points from 2009 to 2010, primarily due to higher costs to support disability operations and expansion into the group dental market, lower premiums
associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, as well as an unfavorable impact from the refinement of a premium tax estimate.   
Sales Results   
The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segment’s annualized new business premiums for the periods indicated. In managing
our group insurance business, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, because annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the business unit, while revenues
primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Annualized new business premiums(1):
  



  



  




 Group life
  
$
486
  
  
$
446
  
  
$
339
  

 Group disability(2)
  
 
204
  
  
 
161
  
  
 
238
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
690
  
  
$
607
  
  
$
577
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Amounts exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance contract and
from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts, and include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. 


(2)
 
Includes long-term care and dental products.   
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums increased $83 million, from $607 million in 2010 to $690
million in 2011. Group life sales increased $40 million driven by higher large case sales to new customers. Group disability sales, which include long-term care and dental products, increased $43 million primarily due to higher sales across all
products.    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.
Total annualized new business premiums increased $30 million, from $577 million in 2009 to $607 million in 2010. Group life sales increased $107 million driven primarily by increased large case sales to new customers, partially offset by lower
premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2010. Group disability sales decreased $77 million primarily due to lower sales of large case disability products to both new and existing customers, as well
as a decrease in long-term care sales.    International
Insurance Division    Foreign Currency Exchange Rate
Movements and Related Hedging Strategies   
As a U.S.-based company with significant business operations outside the U.S., particularly in Japan, we are subject to foreign currency
exchange rate movements that could impact our U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings or our equity in foreign subsidiaries. We seek to mitigate this impact through various hedging strategies, including the use of derivative contracts and through holding
U.S. dollar-denominated assets in certain of our foreign subsidiaries.    The operations of our International Insurance Division are subject to currency fluctuations that can materially affect their U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from period to period even if earnings on a
local currency basis are relatively constant. We enter into forward currency derivative contracts, and hold “dual currency” and “synthetic dual currency” investments, as part of our strategy to effectively fix the currency
exchange rates for a 
  134



Table of Contents

portion of our prospective non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings streams, thereby reducing earnings volatility from foreign currency exchange rate movements. The forward currency hedging program
is primarily associated with our insurance operations in Japan including Star and Edison net of expected integration-related costs, as well as Korea and Taiwan. In addition, our Japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-yen denominated
products which are supported by investments in corresponding currencies. While these non-yen denominated assets and liabilities are economically hedged, the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to changes in
foreign currency exchange rate movements differs, resulting in volatility in reported U.S. GAAP earnings. For further information on the various hedging strategies used to mitigate the risks of foreign currency exchange rate movements on earnings,
see “—Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on earnings.”    We also seek to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our U.S. dollar-equivalent equity in foreign subsidiaries through various hedging strategies. In our Japanese insurance
subsidiaries, we hedge a portion of the estimated available economic capital of the business using a variety of instruments, including U.S. dollar-denominated assets financed by the combination of U.S. GAAP equity and yen-denominated liabilities. We
may also hedge using instruments held in our U.S. domiciled entities, such as U.S. dollar-denominated debt that has been swapped to yen. We are evaluating the hedging strategy related to our Japanese insurance subsidiaries to consider the Japanese
operations’ relative contribution to the Company’s overall return on equity which may result in a change in the amount of yen exposure we hedge. In our Taiwan insurance operation, the U.S. GAAP equity exposure is mitigated by holding a
variety of instruments, including U.S. dollar-denominated investments. During 2009 and 2010, we terminated our hedges of the U.S. GAAP equity exposure of our other foreign operations, excluding our Japan and Taiwan insurance operations, due to a
variety of considerations including a desire to limit the potential for cash settlement outflows that would result from strengthening foreign currencies. For further information on the various instruments used to mitigate the risks of foreign
currency exchange rate movements on our U.S. dollar-equivalent equity in foreign subsidiaries, see “—Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on equity.” 
  The table below presents the aggregate amount of instruments
that serve to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange movements on our U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings and U.S. dollar-equivalent equity in our Japanese insurance subsidiaries for the periods indicated. 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in billions)
 

 Instruments hedging foreign currency exchange rate exposure on U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings:
  



  




 Forward currency hedging program(1)
  
$
2.5
  
  
$
2.5
  

 Dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments(2)
  
 
1.0
  
  
 
0.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
3.5
  
  
 
3.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Instruments hedging foreign currency exchange rate exposure on U.S. dollar-equivalent equity:
  



  




 U.S. dollar-denominated assets held in yen-based entities(3)
  
 
6.9
  
  
 
6.2
  

 Yen-denominated liabilities held in U.S.-based entities(4)
  
 
0.8
  
  
 
0.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
7.7
  
  
 
7.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total hedges
  
$
11.2
  
  
$
10.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total U.S. GAAP equity of Japanese insurance subsidiaries, as adjusted(5)
  
$
10.7
  
  
$
5.7
  
  


(1)
 
Represents the notional amount of forward currency contracts outstanding. 


(2)
 
Represents the present value of future cash flows, on a U.S. dollar-denominated basis. 


(3)
 
Excludes $24.5 billion and $10.2 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of U.S. dollar assets supporting U.S. dollar liabilities related to U.S.
dollar-denominated products issued by our Japanese insurance operations, of which $11.7 billion as of December 31, 2011 supports U.S. dollar-denominated products issued by Star and Edison. 


(4)
 
The yen-denominated liabilities are reported in Corporate and Other operations. 


(5)
 
Excludes “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” components of equity and certain other adjustments. 
  The U.S. dollar-denominated investments that hedge the U.S.
GAAP equity exposure in our Japanese insurance operations pay a coupon, which is reflected within “Net investment income,” and, therefore, included in adjusted operating income, which is generally higher than what a similar yen-based
investment would pay. 
  135



Table of Contents

The incremental impact of this higher yield of our U.S. dollar-denominated investments, as well as our dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments discussed below, will vary over time,
and is dependent on the duration of the underlying investments, as well as interest rate environments in the U.S. and Japan at the time of the investments. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account
Investments—General Account Investments—Investment Results” for a discussion of the investment yields generated by our Japanese insurance operations. 
  Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on earnings
   Forward currency hedging program
   The financial results of our International
Insurance segment for all periods presented reflect the impact of an intercompany arrangement with Corporate and Other operations pursuant to which the segment’s non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings in certain countries are translated at fixed
currency exchange rates. The fixed rates are determined in connection with a foreign currency income hedging program designed to mitigate the impact of exchange rate changes on the segment’s U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings. Pursuant to this
program, Corporate and Other operations execute forward currency contracts with third parties to sell the net exposure of projected earnings from the hedged currency in exchange for U.S. dollars at specified exchange rates. The maturities of these
contracts correspond with the future periods in which the identified non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings are expected to be generated. In establishing the level of non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings that will be hedged through this program, we
exclude the anticipated level of U.S. dollar-denominated earnings that will be generated by dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments, as well as the anticipated level of U.S. dollar-denominated earnings that will be generated by U.S.
dollar-denominated products and investments, both of which are discussed in greater detail below. As a result of this intercompany arrangement, our International Insurance segment results for 2011 reflect the impact of translating yen and Korean
won-denominated earnings at fixed currency exchange rates of 92 yen per U.S. dollar and 1190 Korean won per U.S. dollar. Results for 2012 will reflect the impact of translating yen and Korean won-denominated earnings at fixed currency exchange rates
of 85 yen per U.S. dollar and 1180 Korean won per U.S. dollar.    Results of Corporate and Other operations include any differences between the translation adjustments recorded by the segment at the fixed rate and the gains or losses recorded from the forward currency
contracts that settled during the period, which includes the impact of any over or under hedging of actual earnings that differ from projected earnings. The table below presents, for the periods indicated, the increase (decrease) to revenues and
adjusted operating income for the International Insurance segment and for Corporate and Other operations, reflecting the impact of this intercompany arrangement.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 International Insurance Segment:
  



 



 




 Impact of intercompany arrangement(1)
  
$
(221
) 
 
$
(99
) 
 
$
(35
) 

 Corporate and Other operations:
  



 



 




 Impact of intercompany arrangement(1)
  
 
221
  
 
 
99
  
 
 
35
  

 Settlement gains/(losses) on forward currency contracts
  
 
(176
) 
 
 
(93
) 
 
 
(32
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net benefit to Corporate and Other operations
  
 
45
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net impact on revenues and adjusted operating income
  
$
(176
) 
 
$
(93
) 
 
$
(32
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Represents the difference between non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings translated on the basis of weighted average monthly currency exchange rates versus fixed currency
exchange rates determined in connection with the forward currency hedging program.    As of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, the notional amounts of these forward currency contracts were $3.0 billion, of which $2.5 billion were related to our Japanese insurance operations. 
  Dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments
hedging program    In addition, our Japanese
insurance operations hold dual currency investments in the form of fixed maturities and loans. The principal of these dual currency investments are yen-denominated while the related 
  136



Table of Contents

interest income is U.S. dollar-denominated. These investments are the economic equivalent of exchanging what would otherwise be fixed streams of yen-denominated interest income for fixed streams
of U.S. dollar-denominated interest income. Our Japanese insurance operations, excluding Star and Edison, also hold yen-denominated investments that have been coupled with cross-currency coupon swap agreements, creating synthetic dual currency
investments. The yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate is effectively fixed, as we are obligated in future periods to exchange fixed amounts of Japanese yen interest payments generated by the yen-denominated investments for fixed amounts of U.S. dollar
interest payments at the yen/U.S. dollar exchange rates specified by the cross-currency coupon swap agreements. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the notional amount of these investments was ¥280 billion, or $2.5 billion, and ¥357
billion, or $3.2 billion, respectively, based upon the foreign currency exchange rates applicable at the time these investments were acquired. The weighted average yields generated by these investments were 3.0%, 2.8% and 2.9% for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    Below is the fair value of these instruments as reflected on our balance sheet for the periods indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Cross-currency coupon swap agreements
  
$
(105
) 
 
$
(132
) 

 Foreign exchange component of interest on dual currency investments
  
 
(128
) 
 
 
(114
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
(233
) 
 
$
(246
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The table below presents as
of December 31, 2011, the yen-denominated earnings subject to our dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments and the related weighted average exchange rates applicable at the time these investments were acquired. 
 




















 Year
  
Interest componentof dual currencyinvestments(1)
 
  
Cross-currency couponswap
element ofsynthetic dual currencyinvestments
 
  
Total yen-denominatedearnings subject tothese investments
 
  
Weighted averageforward exchange rateper U.S. Dollar
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in billions)
 
  
 
 
  
(yen per $)
 

 2012
  
 
3.5
  
  
 
2.9
  
  
 
6.4
  
  
 
82.3
  

 2013
  
 
3.3
  
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
5.7
  
  
 
79.6
  

 2014
  
 
3.2
  
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
5.6
  
  
 
79.6
  

 2015-2034
  
 
27.6
  
  
 
48.1
  
  
 
75.7
  
  
 
78.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
 
¥37.6
  
  
 
¥55.8
  
  
 
¥93.4
  
  
 
78.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  


(1)
 
Yen amounts are imputed from the contractual U.S. dollar-denominated interest cash flows.    The present value of the earnings reflected in the table above, on a U.S. dollar-denominated basis, is $1.0
billion as of December 31, 2011.    U.S.
GAAP earnings impact of products denominated in non-local currencies    Our international insurance operations primarily offer products denominated in local currency. However, our Japanese insurance operations also offer products denominated in non-local currencies, primarily
comprised of U.S. and Australian dollar-denominated products. The non-yen denominated insurance liabilities related to these products are supported by investments denominated in corresponding currencies, including a significant portion designated as
available-for-sale, and other related non-yen denominated net assets, including accrued investment income, to support these products. These assets and liabilities are impacted by foreign currency exchange rate movements, as they are non-yen
denominated items on the books of yen-based entities. While these non-yen denominated assets and liabilities are economically hedged, the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange
rate movements differs, resulting in volatility in U.S. GAAP earnings. For example, available-for-sale investments under U.S. GAAP are carried at fair value with changes in fair value (except as described below for impairments), including those from
changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements, recorded as unrealized gains or losses in “Accumulated other 
  137



Table of Contents

comprehensive income (loss),” whereas the non-yen denominated liabilities are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, and the related change in value is recorded in earnings
within “Asset management fees and other income.” Investments designated as held-to-maturity under U.S. GAAP, are recorded at amortized cost on the balance sheet, but are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, with the
related change in value recorded in earnings within “Asset management fees and other income.” Due to this non-economic volatility that is reflected in U.S. GAAP, the change in value due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate
movements, or remeasurement, of these non-yen denominated assets and related liabilities associated with these products is excluded from adjusted operating income and included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related
adjustments.” For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, “Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments” includes net gains of $784 million and $85 million, respectively, reflecting the remeasurement of
these non-yen denominated insurance liabilities, which are presented in the table below, and the remeasurement of certain non-yen denominated related assets, and were primarily driven by the strengthening of the yen against the U.S. and Australian
dollar.    The table below presents the carrying
value of insurance liabilities related to products offered in non-local currencies within our Japanese insurance operations as of the periods indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in billions)
 

 U.S. dollar-denominated products(1)
  
$
23.3
  
  
$
9.7
  

 Australian dollar-denominated products(2)
  
 
5.7
  
  
 
2.0
  

 Euro-denominated products
  
 
0.2
  
  
 
0.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
29.2
  
  
$
11.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
As of December 31, 2011, includes $11.3 billion of insurance liabilities for U.S. dollar-denominated products issued by Star and Edison, which are supported by
U.S. dollar-denominated assets. 


(2)
 
As of December 31, 2011, includes $2.7 billion of insurance liabilities for Australian dollar-denominated products issued by Star and Edison, which are supported
by Australian dollar-denominated assets.    As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $4.5 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, of insurance liabilities for U.S. dollar-denominated products presented in the table above are associated with
Prudential of Japan and coinsured to our U.S. domiciled insurance operations. These U.S. dollar-denominated liabilities are supported by U.S. dollar-denominated assets and are not subject to the remeasurement mismatch described above. 
  Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on equity
   The table below presents the composition
of instruments that serve to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange movements on our U.S. dollar-equivalent equity in our Japanese insurance subsidiaries for the periods indicated. 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in billions)
 

 Available-for-sale U.S. dollar-denominated investments, at amortized cost
  
$
6.5
  
  
$
5.6
  

 Held-to-maturity U.S. dollar-denominated investments, at amortized cost
  
 
0.3
  
  
 
0.5
  

 Other(1)
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
0.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 U.S. dollar-denominated assets held in yen-based entities(2)
  
 
6.9
  
  
 
6.2
  

 Yen-denominated liabilities held in U.S.-based entities(3)
  
 
0.8
  
  
 
0.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total instruments hedging foreign currency exchange rate exposure on U.S. dollar-equivalent equity
  
$
7.7
  
  
$
7.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total U.S. GAAP equity of Japanese insurance subsidiaries, as adjusted(4)
  
$
10.7
  
  
$
5.7
  
  


(1)
 
Primarily reflects accrued investment income on U.S. dollar-denominated investments. 


(2)
 
Excludes $24.5 billion and $10.2 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of U.S. dollar assets supporting U.S. dollar liabilities related to U.S.
dollar-denominated products issued by our Japanese insurance operations. 


(3)
 
The yen-denominated liabilities are reported in Corporate and Other operations. 


(4)
 
Excludes “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” components of equity and certain other adjustments. 
  138



Table of Contents
Available-for-sale investments under U.S. GAAP are carried at fair value with unrealized
changes in fair value (except as described below for impairments), including those from changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements, recorded as unrealized gains or losses in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” Changes
in the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations due to foreign currency exchange rate movements are also recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” as a “Foreign currency translation adjustment,” and
can serve as an offset to the unrealized changes in fair value of the available-for-sale investments. For the portion of available-for-sale investments that support our Japanese insurance operations’ U.S. GAAP equity, this offset creates a
“natural equity hedge.” If U.S. dollar-denominated investments, including available-for-sale investments, supporting the hedge are in excess of our U.S. GAAP equity, then there is no offsetting impact to equity. In addition, the impact of
foreign currency exchange rate movements on the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations is partially offset by foreign currency exchange related changes in designated yen-denominated debt and other hedging instruments held in our U.S.
domiciled entities and recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” as a “Foreign currency translation adjustment.”   
The investments designated as held-to-maturity under U.S. GAAP are recorded at amortized cost on the balance sheet, but are remeasured for
foreign currency exchange rate movements, with the related change in value recorded within “Asset management fees and other income.” The remeasurement related to the change in value for foreign currency exchange rate movements for these
investments is excluded from adjusted operating income.    We also incorporate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on the remaining U.S. dollar-denominated net asset position of our Japanese insurance operations, which primarily relates to
accrued investment income, as part of our overall application of the hedge strategy. These U.S. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, as they are non-yen denominated items on the books
of yen-based entities, and the related change in value is recorded within “Asset management fees and other income.” The remeasurement related to the change in value for foreign currency exchange rate movements for these items is excluded
from adjusted operating income.    For U.S.
dollar-denominated investments recorded on the books of yen-based entities, foreign currency exchange movements will impact their value. To the extent the value of the yen strengthens as compared to the U.S. dollar, the value of these U.S.
dollar-denominated investments will decrease. Upon the ultimate sale or maturity of the U.S. dollar-denominated investments, any realized change in value related to changes in the foreign currency exchange rates will be included in “Realized
investment gains (losses), net” within the income statement and excluded from adjusted operating income. Similarly, changes in the foreign currency exchange rates that result in other-than-temporary impairments on these investments will be
included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net” within the income statement and, as such, excluded from adjusted operating income. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—General
Account Investments—Fixed Maturity Securities—Other-than-Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities” for a discussion of our policies regarding impairments. We seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency
exchange rate movements will decrease the value of our U.S. dollar-denominated investments and negatively impact the equity of our yen-based entities by employing internal hedging strategies between a subsidiary of Prudential Financial and certain
of our yen-based entities. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—International Insurance and Investments Subsidiaries” for a discussion of our internal hedging strategies.
   International Insurance
  Operating Results 
  The results of our International Insurance operations are
translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates, inclusive of the effects of the intercompany arrangement discussed above. To provide a better understanding of operating performance within the International Insurance segment,
where indicated below, we have analyzed our results of operations excluding the effect of the year over year change in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations were derived by
translating foreign currencies to U.S. dollars at uniform exchange rates for all periods presented, 
  139



Table of Contents

including for constant dollar information discussed below. The exchange rates used were Japanese yen at a rate of 85 yen per U.S. dollar and Korean won at a rate of 1180 won per U.S. dollar, both
of which were determined in connection with the foreign currency income hedging program discussed above. In addition, for constant dollar information discussed below, activity denominated in U.S. dollars is reported based on the amounts as
transacted in U.S. dollars. Annualized new business premiums presented on a constant exchange rate basis in the “Sales Results” section below reflect translation based on these same uniform exchange rates. 
  The following table sets forth the International Insurance
segment’s operating results for the periods indicated.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Operating results:
  



 



 




 Revenues:
  



 



 




 Life Planner operations
  
$
8,214
  
 
$
7,266
  
 
$
6,443
  

 Gibraltar Life and Other operations
  
 
11,574
  
 
 
4,954
  
 
 
4,149
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
19,788
  
 
 
12,220
  
 
 
10,592
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefits and expenses:
  



 



 




 Life Planner operations
  
 
6,845
  
 
 
5,997
  
 
 
5,222
  

 Gibraltar Life and Other operations
  
 
10,238
  
 
 
4,138
  
 
 
3,502
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
17,083
  
 
 
10,135
  
 
 
8,724
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted operating income:
  



 



 




 Life Planner operations
  
 
1,369
  
 
 
1,269
  
 
 
1,221
  

 Gibraltar Life and Other operations
  
 
1,336
  
 
 
816
  
 
 
647
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
2,705
  
 
 
2,085
  
 
 
1,868
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1)
  
 
575
  
 
 
(317
) 
 
 
(790
) 

 Related charges(2)
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
56
  

 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3)
  
 
(160
) 
 
 
33
  
 
 
68
  

 Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(4)
  
 
160
  
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(68
) 

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(5)
  
 
(277
) 
 
 
(109
) 
 
 
(39
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
2,986
  
 
$
1,644
  
 
$
1,095
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments includes gains and
losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as discussed above. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account
Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.” 


(2)
 
Revenues exclude related charges resulting from payments related to market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products and the impact of Realized
investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of unearned revenue reserves. Benefits and expenses exclude related charges that represent the element of “Dividends to policyholders” that is based on a portion of certain realized
investment gains required to be paid to policyholders and the impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. 


(3)
 
Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See “—Experience-Rated Contractholder
Liabilities, Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Related Investments.” 


(4)
 
Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience-rated contracts.
See “—Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities, Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Related Investments.” 


(5)
 
Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and
equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after-tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from
adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before taxes and equity earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represent the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors. 
  140



Table of Contents
On April 6, 2011, the Company entered into a stock and asset purchase agreement to sell
all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company’s subsidiaries that conduct its Global Commodities Business and certain assets that are primarily used in connection with the Global Commodities Business. As a result, we
have reflected the results of the Global Commodities Business as discontinued operations for all periods presented. This sale was completed on July 1, 2011. 
  Acquisition of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., AIG
Edison Life Insurance Company and Related Entities    On February 1, 2011, Prudential Financial completed the acquisition from American International Group, Inc., or AIG, of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., or Star, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company,
or Edison, and certain other AIG subsidiaries (collectively, the “Star and Edison Businesses”) pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 between Prudential Financial and AIG. The total purchase price was $4,709
million, comprised of $4,213 million in cash and $496 million in assumed third party debt, substantially all of which is expected to be repaid, over time, with excess capital of the acquired entities. All acquired entities are Japanese corporations
and their businesses are in Japan.    The addition
of these operations increases our scale in the Japanese insurance market and provides complementary distribution opportunities. We also expect these businesses to provide attractive returns primarily driven from in force business and cost synergies.
Star and Edison’s bank channel distribution will be transferred and integrated with the bank channel operations of Prudential Gibraltar. The Star and Edison companies were merged into Gibraltar Life on January 1, 2012. We expect pre-tax
integration costs of approximately $500 million to be incurred over a five-year period. We incurred $174 million of integration costs during 2011 and expect to incur approximately $200 million during 2012. After the integration is completed, we
expect annual cost savings of approximately $250 million, and expect to achieve approximately two-thirds of the annual savings by the end of 2012. Actual integration costs may exceed, and actual costs savings may fall short of, such expectations.
   The Gibraltar Life operations, including the Star
and Edison Businesses, use a November 30 fiscal year end for purposes of inclusion in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Therefore, operating results presented in the table above includes results for Gibraltar Life for the
twelve months ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and include earnings for the Star and Edison Businesses from the February 1, 2011 acquisition date through November 30, 2011. 
  Acquisition of Yamato Life 
  On May 1, 2009, our Gibraltar Life operations acquired
Yamato Life, a Japanese life insurance company that declared bankruptcy in October 2008. Gibraltar Life served as the reorganization sponsor for Yamato and under the reorganization agreement acquired Yamato by contributing $72 million of capital to
Yamato. Concurrent with our acquisition, substantially all of Yamato’s insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These surrender charges were 20% in the
first year and decline by 2% each year thereafter. Subsequent to the acquisition, we renamed the acquired company The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential Gibraltar. 
  Adjusted Operating Income 
  2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating
income from Life Planner operations increased $100 million, from $1,269 million in 2010 to $1,369 million in 2011, including a net favorable impact of $6 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted
operating income increased $94 million primarily reflecting the growth of business in force driven by sales and continued strong persistency in our Japanese Life Planner operations and, to a lesser extent, lower administrative expenses due in part
to the absence of certain costs incurred in 2010. Partially offsetting these favorable variances were charges of $12 million associated with claims and expenses arising from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and less favorable
mortality experience in Japan and Korea.    Adjusted
operating income from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $520 million, from $816 million in 2010 to $1,336 million in 2011, including a favorable impact of $29 million from currency

  141



Table of Contents

fluctuations. Results for 2011 benefited from $354 million of earnings from the acquired Star and Edison Businesses, excluding the impact of estimated claims associated with the earthquake and
tsunami in Japan. Adjusted operating income for both 2011 and 2010 reflect the impact of partial sales of our investment, through a consortium, in China Pacific Group, which contributed a $237 million benefit to 2011 results compared to a $66
million benefit to 2010 results. Also contributing to the increase in adjusted income was a $96 million gain on sale of our investment in an operating joint venture, Afore XXI, a private pension fund manager in Mexico. These favorable items were
partially offset by transaction and integration costs of $213 million in 2011 relating to the Star and Edison acquisition and $49 million of charges associated with claims and expenses arising from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
   Excluding the effect of the items discussed
above, adjusted operating income from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $132 million, reflecting business growth, including expanding sales of protection products, and improved investment results, including a greater contribution
from our fixed annuity products reflecting growth of that business and lower amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. The lower amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs associated with our fixed annuity products was primarily
driven by lower amortization rates reflecting an increase in prior period investment results included in total gross profits used as a basis for determining amortization rates. Partially offsetting these favorable variances were higher development
costs supporting bank and agency distribution channel growth and unfavorable results from our insurance joint venture in India and our asset management-related joint venture in China.    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from our Life Planner operations increased $48
million, from $1,221 million in 2009 to $1,269 million in 2010, including a net favorable impact of $11 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating income increased $37 million primarily
reflecting the growth of business in force and continued strong persistency in our Japanese Life Planner operation, partially offset by an unfavorable variance of $27 million, reflecting the impact of a $6 million net charge in 2010 and a $21
million net benefit in 2009 from reserve refinements related to the implementation of a new policy valuation system. Also impacting adjusted operating income is a $6 million lower benefit in 2010 from a reduction in amortization of deferred policy
acquisition costs primarily reflecting improved mortality assumptions, which benefited both periods, associated with our annual review of estimated gross profits used to amortize deferred policy acquisition costs. 
  Adjusted operating income from our Gibraltar Life and Other
operations increased $169 million, from $647 million in 2009 to $816 million in 2010, including a favorable impact of $22 million from currency fluctuations. In December 2010, a consortium of investors including Prudential that holds a minority
interest in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd sold approximately 16% of its holdings, which contributed a pre-tax benefit of $66 million to results. Absent the effect of this item and the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating
income increased $81 million, primarily reflecting the continued growth in our fixed annuity products, which are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and growth in protection products driven by expanding bank channel distribution, as well as a
higher contribution from non-coupon investments. Results for 2010 also include $11 million of expenses associated with the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses which were more than offset by a lower level of benefits and expenses including
the absence of net charges of $5 million related to a 2009 guaranty fund assessment and net charges of $8 million in 2009 from unfavorable reserve refinements related to the implementation of a new policy valuation system. 
  Revenues 
  2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in
the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $7,568 million, from $12,220 million in 2010 to $19,788 million in 2011, including a net favorable impact of $1,024 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact
of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $6,544 million, from $12,633 million in 2010 to $19,177 million in 2011.   
Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $948 million, from $7,266 million in 2010 to $8,214 million in 2011, including a net
favorable impact of $401 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $547 million, from $7,436 million in 2010 to $7,983 million in 2011. This increase in revenues came primarily from
increases in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $393 million, from $6,080 million in 2010 to $6,473 million in 2011. Premiums and policy charges and fee 
  142



Table of Contents

income from our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $337 million, from $4,635 million in 2010 to $4,972 million in 2011, primarily reflecting growth of business in force and continued
strong persistency. Net investment income increased $118 million, from $1,268 million in 2010 to $1,386 million in 2011, primarily due to investment portfolio growth, partially offset by lower yields in our investment portfolio compared to the prior
year.    Revenues from our Gibraltar Life and Other
operations increased $6,620 million, from $4,954 million in 2010 to $11,574 million in 2011, including a favorable impact of $623 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues for Gibraltar Life
increased $5,997 million, from $5,197 million in 2010 to $11,194 million in 2011. This increase reflects a $4,714 million increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income, from $3,652 million in 2010 to $8,366 million in 2011, of which $2,920
million was associated with the acquired Star and Edison Businesses. Excluding Star and Edison, the increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income was primarily driven by growth in protection products within the bank distribution channel
including $1,062 million higher sales of single premium whole life. Also contributing to the increase in revenues is favorable investment income primarily reflecting $816 million of income on the acquired assets from Star and Edison and continued
growth of our fixed annuity products, as well as higher other income reflecting the impact of the partial sales of our indirect investment in China Pacific Group and the sale of the investment in Afore XXI, discussed above. 
  In some of the markets in which we operate, it is difficult
to find appropriate long-duration assets to match the characteristics of our long-duration product liabilities. In Japan, we have historically sought to increase the duration of our Japanese yen investment portfolio by employing various strategies,
including investing in longer-term securities or by entering into long-duration floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. These strategies better support the characteristics of our long-dated product liabilities and have resulted in higher portfolio
yields. Based on an evaluation of market conditions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, we terminated or offset many of these interest rate swaps in consideration of, among other things, the
interest rate environment. The resulting realized investment gains from terminating or offsetting these interest rate swaps will be recognized in adjusted operating income over periods that generally approximate the expected terms of the
derivatives. For 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized gains of $55 million, $38 million, and $30 million, respectively, in adjusted operating income related to these realized investment gains (losses). As of December 31, 2011, $657 million of
deferred gains remain to be recognized in adjusted operating income over a weighted average period of 29 years. We continue to manage the interest rate risk profile of our businesses in the context of market conditions and relative opportunities,
and may implement these hedging strategies to lengthen the duration of our Japanese investment portfolio as our assessment of market conditions dictates. As we do so, the impact to our portfolio yields will depend on the interest rate environment at
that time.    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.
Revenues increased $1,628 million, from $10,592 million in 2009 to $12,220 million in 2010, including a net favorable impact of $491 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased
$1,137 million, from $11,496 million in 2009 to $12,633 million in 2010.    Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $823 million, from $6,443 million in 2009 to $7,266 million in 2010, including a net favorable impact of $296 million from currency fluctuations.
Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $527 million, from $6,909 million in 2009 to $7,436 million in 2010. This increase in revenues came primarily from increases in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $363
million, from $5,717 million in 2009 to $6,080 million in 2010. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $274 million, from $4,361 million in 2009 to $4,635 million in 2010, primarily reflecting
growth of business in force and continued strong persistency, partially offset by a benefit recognized in the prior year from the migration to a new policy valuation system discussed above. Net investment income increased $132 million, from $1,136
million in 2009 to $1,268 million in 2010, primarily due to investment portfolio growth, partially offset by lower yields in our Japanese investment portfolio compared to the prior year.    Revenues from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $805 million, from $4,149 million in 2009 to
$4,954 million in 2010, including a favorable impact of $195 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues for Gibraltar Life increased $610 million, from $4,587 million in

  143



Table of Contents

2009 to $5,197 million in 2010. This increase reflects a $417 million increase in premiums, from $3,150 million in 2009 to $3,567 million in 2010, as premiums benefited from $50 million of
renewal premiums from the acquisition of Yamato, higher first year premiums of $229 million due to stronger sales of protection products primarily through our bank distribution channels, as well as $173 million in higher sales of single premium
whole life products. Partially offsetting these favorable variances in premiums was a decrease of $101 million, reflecting the completion of the special dividend arrangement in the second quarter of 2010 established as part of Gibraltar Life’s
reorganization in 2001. Substantially all of the premiums recognized as additional face amounts of insurance issued pursuant to the special dividend arrangement were offset by a corresponding charge to increase reserves for the affected policies.
Also contributing to the increase in revenues is favorable investment income reflecting the continued growth of our fixed annuity products and higher other income primarily reflecting the pre-tax benefit of $66 million related to the partial sale of
our indirect investment in China Pacific Group discussed above.    Benefits and Expenses    2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $6,948 million, from $10,135 million in 2010 to $17,083
million in 2011, including a net unfavorable impact of $989 million related to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $5,959 million, from $10,326 million in 2010 to $16,285 million in
2011.    Benefits and expenses of our Life Planner
operations increased $848 million, from $5,997 million in 2010 to $6,845 million in 2011, including a net unfavorable impact of $395 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased
$453 million, from $6,076 million in 2010 to $6,529 million in 2011. Benefits and expenses of our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $373 million, from $4,438 million in 2010 to $4,811 million in 2011, primarily reflecting an increase in
policyholder benefits due to changes in reserves driven by the growth in business in force and, to a lesser extent, reflecting the impact of the charges associated with claims resulting from the Japanese earthquake and tsunami and less favorable
mortality experience.    Benefits and expenses of
our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $6,100 million, from $4,138 million in 2010 to $10,238 million in 2011, including an unfavorable impact of $594 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations,
benefits and expenses increased $5,506 million, from $4,250 million in 2010 to $9,756 million in 2011. Policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, increased $3,697 million and was primarily driven by the acquisition of the Star and Edison
Businesses, higher single premium whole life sales in 2011 and $37 million of charges associated with claims resulting from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan. General and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, increased $1,225
million primarily driven by the impact of the Star and Edison acquisition including $213 million of transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition, higher development costs supporting bank and agency distribution channel growth and $12
million of expenses resulting from the earthquake and tsunami discussed above. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses is higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and interest credited to policyholders’
account balances primarily reflecting the impact of the Star and Edison acquisition.    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $1,411 million, from $8,724 million in 2009 to $10,135 million in 2010, including a net unfavorable impact of $458 million related to
currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $953 million, from $9,373 million in 2009 to $10,326 million in 2010. 
  Benefits and expenses of our Life Planner operations
increased $775 million, from $5,222 million in 2009 to $5,997 million in 2010, including a net unfavorable impact of $285 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $490
million, from $5,586 million in 2009 to $6,076 million in 2010. Benefits and expenses of our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $356 million, from $4,082 million in 2009 to $4,438 million in 2010, primarily reflecting an increase in
policyholder benefits due to changes in reserves, which was driven by the growth in business in force. Included in 2010 general and administrative expenses for the Life Planner operations is $4 million of expenses, a

  144



Table of Contents

decrease of $8 million from the prior year, related to a recently completed initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and
lower costs.    Benefits and expenses of our
Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $636 million, from $3,502 million in 2009 to $4,138 million in 2010, including an unfavorable impact of $173 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits
and expenses increased $463 million, from $3,787 million in 2009 to $4,250 million in 2010. This increase reflects an increase in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, of $371 million reflecting higher single premium whole life sales
in 2010 and the acquisition of Yamato, offset by the effects of the special dividend arrangement discussed above. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses is higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to
growth of our protection products and the increase in single premium whole life sales, as well as higher general and administrative expenses including $11 million of expenses associated with the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses.
Included in general and administrative expenses for Gibraltar Life is $18 million of expenses, unchanged from the prior year, related to the recently completed information processes and technology systems initiative discussed above. 
  Sales Results 
  In managing our international insurance business, we analyze
revenues, as well as annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP. Annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the segment, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal
persistency of policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new business premiums include 10% of first year premiums or deposits from single pay products. No other adjustments are made for
limited pay contracts. The following table sets forth annualized new business premiums on an actual and constant exchange rate basis for the periods indicated.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
  
  2010  
 
  
  2009  
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Annualized new business premiums:
  



  



  




 On an actual exchange rate basis:
  



  



  




 Life Planner operations
  
$
1,150
  
  
$
964
  
  
$
833
  

 Gibraltar Life(1)
  
 
2,042
  
  
 
874
  
  
 
568
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,192
  
  
$
1,838
  
  
$
1,401
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 On a constant exchange rate basis:
  



  



  




 Life Planner operations
  
$
1,097
  
  
$
973
  
  
$
883
  

 Gibraltar Life(1)
  
 
1,943
  
  
 
897
  
  
 
612
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,040
  
  
$
1,870
  
  
$
1,495
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The year ended December 31, 2011 includes ten months of annualized new business premiums for the Star and Edison Businesses, acquired February 1, 2011.
   With a diversified product mix
supporting the growing demand for retirement and savings products, our international insurance operations offer various traditional whole life, term, endowment policies (which provide for payment on the earlier of death or maturity) and retirement
income life insurance products that combine an insurance protection element similar to that of term life policies with a retirement income feature. In most of our operations, we also offer certain health products with fixed benefits, some of which
include a high savings element, as well as annuity products, which are primarily represented by U.S. and Australian dollar-denominated fixed annuities in our Gibraltar Life operations.    Our Life Planners’ primary objective is to sell protection-oriented life insurance products on a needs
basis to mass affluent and affluent customers, as well as to small businesses, whereas Gibraltar’s Life Advisors have primarily sold individual protection products to the broad middle income market in Japan, particularly through relationships
with affinity groups. Supplementing our core Life Planner and Life Advisor distribution channels, bank distribution channel sales primarily consist of products intended to provide premature death protection and retirement income, as well as fixed
annuity products primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and increasingly, 
  145



Table of Contents

Australian dollars. The addition of the Star and Edison Businesses, with historical product offerings primarily comprised of individual life insurance, fixed annuities and certain health products
with fixed benefits, significantly increases our scale in the Japanese insurance marketplace and also provides complementary distribution capabilities through an increased captive agency force, expanded bank channel distribution, as well as the
addition of an established independent agency channel.    Historically, growth in annualized new business premiums was closely correlated to growth of our Life Planner and Life Advisor distribution force. Recently, growth in annualized new business premiums is
being driven by increased average premium per new policy resulting in part from the growing demand for retirement-oriented products, as well as expanded distribution through third party channels, especially banks. As noted in the table below, bank
channel sales contain a disproportionate number of single pay or limited pay contracts which tend to be larger policies and therefore have higher average premiums per policy. Our expectation is that this trend will continue. 
  The table below present annualized new business premiums on a
constant exchange rate basis, by product and distribution channel, for the periods indicated.   












































 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Life
 
 
Accident&Health(1)
 
 
Retirement(2)
 
 
Annuity
 
 
Total
 
 
Life
 
 
Accident&Health(1)
 
 
Retirement(2)
 
 
Annuity
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Life Planners
 
$
425
  
 
$
174
  
 
$
448
  
 
$
50
  
 
$
1,097
  
 
$
417
  
 
$
163
  
 
$
360
  
 
$
33
  
 
$
973
  

 Gibraltar Life:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Life Advisors
 
 
415
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
127
  
 
 
192
  
 
 
928
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
505
  

 Banks(3)
 
 
373
  
 
 
43
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
142
  
 
 
580
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
43
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
336
  

 Independent Agency
 
 
172
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
435
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
56
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
 
 
960
  
 
 
415
  
 
 
166
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
1,943
  
 
 
455
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
177
  
 
 
897
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
1,385
  
 
$
589
  
 
$
614
  
 
$
452
  
 
$
3,040
  
 
$
872
  
 
$
324
  
 
$
464
  
 
$
210
  
 
$
1,870
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes medical insurance, cancer insurance and accident & sickness riders. The years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 include $305 million and $211
million, respectively, of annualized new business premiums from cancer insurance products. 


(2)
 
Includes retirement income, endowment and savings variable universal life. 


(3)
 
Single pay life annualized new business premiums, which include 10% of first year premiums, and 3-year limited pay annualized new business premiums, which include 100%
of new business premiums, represented 30% and 50%, respectively, of total bank distribution channel annualized new business premiums, excluding annuity products, for the year ended December 31, 2011, and 1% and 64%, respectively, of total bank
distribution channel annualized new business premiums, excluding annuity products, for the year ended December 31, 2010.   
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    On a constant exchange rate basis, annualized new business premiums
increased $1,170 million, from $1,870 million in 2010 to $3,040 million in 2011.    Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations increased $124 million, from $973 million in 2010 to $1,097 million in 2011, including $78 million of
higher sales in Japan driven by growth in average premium per policy reflecting the increasing demand for both yen and U.S. dollar-denominated retirement income products. Sales in Korea increased $21 million driven by growth in average premium per
policy resulting from increased sales of retirement income products and variable annuity products. In Brazil, sales increased $13 million primarily driven by sales of whole life products due in part to an increase in the number of Life Planners.
   Annualized new business premiums, on a constant
exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operations increased $1,046 million, from $897 million in 2010 to $1,943 million in 2011, with Star and Edison contributing $728 million to this increase. Annualized new business premiums for Star include
approximately $120 million of sales from an increasing term product that was discontinued upon completion of the merger with Gibraltar. Excluding Star and Edison, the increase in annualized new business premiums was driven by higher bank channel
sales of $220 million, primarily due to increased sales of protection products including $129 million 
  146



Table of Contents

from single premium whole life sales due in part to increased sales in advance of a premium increase on our yen-denominated product effective early February, 2011, and $55 million in whole life
products. Historically, a significant amount of sales through our bank channel distribution was derived through a single Japanese mega-bank; however, certain of our other bank channel relationships are also contributing to the more recent sales
growth. Excluding Star and Edison, independent agency distribution sales increased $81 million with the vast majority from sales of cancer insurance products and Life Advisor sales increased $17 million, primarily reflecting higher sales of
retirement income and annuity products.    The
number of Life Planners increased by 227 from 6,565 as of December 31, 2010 to 6,792 as of December 31, 2011, driven by an increase of 84 in Brazil due to stronger recruitment, as well as increases of 62 in Korea, 32 in Poland, 31 in Italy
and 15 in Japan. Over the past twelve months, there were 35 Japanese Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar Life, primarily in support of our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution and to service orphaned policyholders. Prior to
December 31, 2010, an additional 396 Japanese Life Planners were transferred to Gibraltar Life.   
The number of Life Advisors increased by 6,510 from 6,281 as of December 31, 2010 to 12,791 as of December 31, 2011, primarily
driven by the Star and Edison acquisition. As of December 31, 2011, 6,550 Life Advisors were associated with the acquired businesses of Star and Edison, reflecting a decrease of 719 from the 7,269 Life Advisors as of the February 1, 2011
date of acquisition as recruitments were more than offset by terminations and resignations.    The table below present annualized new business premiums on a constant exchange rate basis, by product and distribution channel, for the periods indicated. 
 












































 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
 
Life
 
 
Accident&Health(1)
 
 
Retirement(2)
 
 
Annuity
 
 
Total
 
 
Life
 
 
Accident&Health(1)
 
 
Retirement(2)
 
 
Annuity
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Life Planners
 
$
417
  
 
$
163
  
 
$
360
  
 
$
33
  
 
$
973
  
 
$
402
  
 
$
136
  
 
$
310
  
 
$
35
  
 
$
883
  

 Gibraltar Life:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Life Advisors
 
 
266
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
505
  
 
 
251
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
475
  

 Banks(3)
 
 
185
  
 
 
43
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
336
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
137
  

 Independent Agency
 
 
4
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
 
 
455
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
177
  
 
 
897
  
 
 
304
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
151
  
 
 
612
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
872
  
 
$
324
  
 
$
464
  
 
$
210
  
 
$
1,870
  
 
$
706
  
 
$
204
  
 
$
399
  
 
$
186
  
 
$
1,495
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes medical insurance, cancer insurance and accident & sickness riders. The years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 includes $211 million and $89
million, respectively, of annualized new business premiums from cancer insurance products. 


(2)
 
Includes retirement income, endowment and savings variable universal life. 


(3)
 
Single pay life annualized new business premiums, which include 10% of first year premiums, and 3-year limited pay annualized new business premiums, which include 100%
of new business premiums, represented 1% and 64%, respectively, of total bank distribution channel annualized new business premiums, excluding annuity products, for the year ended December 31, 2010, and 1% and 48%, respectively, of total bank
distribution channel annualized new business premiums, excluding annuity products, for the year ended December 31, 2009.   
2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    On a constant exchange rate basis, annualized new business premiums
increased $375 million, from $1,495 million in 2009 to $1,870 million in 2010.    Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations increased $90 million, primarily due to higher sales of retirement income and cancer whole life
products in Japan.    Annualized new business
premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operation increased $285 million, primarily due to higher sales of protection products in our bank distribution channels and sales related to a recently introduced cancer whole
life product, a portion of which were sold through the independent agency channel. 
  147



Table of Contents
The number of Life Planners decreased by 44, or 1%, from 6,609 as of December 31, 2009
to 6,565 as of December 31, 2010, driven by decreases of 76 in Taiwan, 53 in Poland and 31 in Argentina, partially offset by increases of 43 in Italy, 36 in Brazil and 28 in Japan. Over the past twelve months, we transferred 92 Japanese Life
Planners to Gibraltar, primarily in support of our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution and to service orphaned policyholders. Factoring in these transfers, the number of Japanese Life Planners would have increased 4%, from
December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010. Prior to December 31, 2009, an additional 304 Japanese Life Planners were transferred to Gibraltar.   
The number of Life Advisors decreased by 117, from 6,398 as of December 31, 2009 to 6,281 as of December 31, 2010, as new hires
and 22 Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar as Life Advisors over the last twelve months were offset by resignations and terminations due in part to failure to meet minimum sales production standards. The remaining Life Planners transferred to
Gibraltar, as discussed above, are not considered Life Advisors.    Investment Margins and Other Profitability Factors   
Many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at mandated
guaranteed interest rates. Authorities in some jurisdictions regulate interest rates guaranteed in our insurance contracts. The regulated guaranteed interest rates do not necessarily match the actual returns on our underlying investments that
support these products. The spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is an element of the profit or loss that we will experience on these products. With regulatory approval, guaranteed
rates may be changed on new business which enhances our ability to set rates commensurate with available investment returns. However, the major sources of profitability for many of our products, particularly those sold by Prudential of Japan, are
margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges rather than investment spreads.    We base premiums and cash values in most countries in which we operate on mandated mortality and morbidity tables. Our mortality and morbidity experience in the International Insurance segment on an
overall basis in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was well within our pricing assumptions and below the guaranteed levels reflected in the premiums we charge. 
  Corporate and Other 
  Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after
allocations to our business segments.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Operating results:
  



  



  




 Net investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense
  
$
(24
) 
  
$
(63
) 
  
$
(54
) 

 Capital debt interest expense
  
 
(621
) 
  
 
(554
) 
  
 
(495
) 

 Pension income and employee benefits
  
 
173
  
  
 
204
  
  
 
211
  

 Other corporate activities(1)
  
 
(655
) 
  
 
(510
) 
  
 
(441
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Adjusted operating income
  
 
(1,127
) 
  
 
(923
) 
  
 
(779
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(2)
  
 
(1,496
) 
  
 
98
  
  
 
108
  

 Related charges(3)
  
 
25
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
6
  

 Divested businesses(4)
  
 
54
  
  
 
(25
) 
  
 
2,086
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(5)
  
 
(13
) 
  
 
(18
) 
  
 
(2,311
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
(2,557
) 
  
$
(866
) 
  
$
(890
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes consolidating adjustments. 


(2)
 
Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account
Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.” 


(3)
 
Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent consolidating adjustments. 


(4)
 
See “—Divested Businesses.” 
  148



Table of Contents


(5)
 
Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and
equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after-tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from
adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of
Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represent the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors. 
  2011 to 2010 Annual
Comparison.    The loss from Corporate and Other operations, on an adjusted operating income basis, increased $204 million, from $923 million in 2010 to $1,127 million in 2011. Corporate and Other operations recorded a $93
million increase in expenses for estimated payments arising from use of new Social Security Master Death File matching criteria to identify deceased policy and contract holders. See Note 23 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
further details regarding this matter. Corporate and Other operations also recorded a $20 million charge related to a voluntary contribution to an insurance industry insolvency fund, related to Executive Life Insurance Company of New York. Greater
net charges from other corporate activities, primarily reflecting increased retained corporate expenses, including corporate advertising, contributed to the increased loss. The increase in net charges from other corporate activities was partially
offset by more favorable results from corporate foreign currency hedging activities and reduced charges compared to the prior period for certain retained obligations relating to pre-demutualization policyholders to whom we had previously agreed to
provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life insurance sales practices remediation. Capital debt interest expense increased $67 million due to a greater level of capital
debt, which includes the issuance in November 2010 of $1 billion of debt for the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses. Investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense, increased $39 million due to higher
income in our corporate investment portfolio including higher income on equity method investments. Higher levels of short-term liquidity have been maintained throughout 2010 and into 2011 to provide additional flexibility to address our cash needs
in view of changing financial market conditions. On February 1, 2011, we used a portion of cash and short-term investments in Corporate and Other operations to partially fund the purchase price related to our recent acquisition of the Star and
Edison Businesses. Also, in June 2011, Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase, at management’s discretion, up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock through June 2012. During 2011, the
Company made share repurchases of $999.5 million. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional details.   
Results from Corporate and Other operations pension income and employee benefits decreased $31 million primarily due to a decrease in
income from our qualified pension plan. Income from our qualified pension plan decreased $31 million, from $321 million in 2010 to $290 million in 2011, due to a decrease in the expected rate of return on plan assets from 7.50% in 2010 to 7.00% in
2011, partially offset by the effect on expected return due to the growth in plan assets.    For purposes of calculating pension income from our own qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2012, we will decrease the discount rate to 4.85% from 5.60% in 2011. The expected rate
of return on plan assets will decrease to 6.75% in 2012 from 7.00% in 2011, and the assumed rate of increase in compensation will remain unchanged at 4.5%. We determined our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon a building block approach
that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix
applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions and other factors, we expect, on a consolidated basis, income from our own qualified pension plan will continue to contribute to adjusted
operating income in 2012, but at a level of about $55 million to $65 million lower than in 2011. Other postretirement benefit expenses will increase in a range of $15 million to $25 million. The increase is driven primarily by demographic updates, a
decrease in the discount rate to 4.60% from 5.35% and the effect of a decrease in plan assets. In 2012, pension and other postretirement benefit service costs related to active employees will continue to be allocated to our business segments.
   2010 to 2009 Annual
Comparison.    The loss from Corporate and Other operations, on an adjusted operating income basis, increased $144 million, from $779 million in 2009 to $923 million in 2010. Capital debt interest expense increased $59
million due to a greater level of capital debt, which includes the issuance in 
  149



Table of Contents

September 2009 of $500 million of exchangeable surplus notes, and reflects the use of a portion of the proceeds from prior sales of retail medium-term notes for general corporate purposes
beginning in the second quarter of 2009, as well as the deployment of additional corporate borrowings for capital purposes. Investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense, decreased $9 million. Net investment
income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense was also impacted by our repurchase of substantially all of our convertible senior notes during 2009. Also contributing to the greater loss from corporate operations in 2010
compared to the prior year are greater net charges from other corporate activities, primarily reflecting less favorable results from corporate hedging activities, increased corporate advertising expenses and other retained corporate expenses.
   Results from Corporate and Other operations
pension income and employee benefits decreased $7 million. The decrease reflects increases in employee benefits costs partially offset by an increase in income from our qualified pension plan. Income from our qualified pension plan increased $13
million, from $308 million in 2009 to $321 million in 2010.    Capital Protection Framework    Corporate and Other operations includes the results of our Capital Protection Framework, which includes, among other things, the capital hedge program. The capital hedge program broadly addresses the
equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole, under stress scenarios, as described under “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—Domestic Insurance
Subsidiaries.” This hedge program resulted in charges for amortization of derivative costs of $21 million and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The market value changes of these derivatives included
in “Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments” was a gain of $9 million and a loss of $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  In addition, we manage certain risks associated with our
variable annuity products through our living benefit hedging program, which is described under “—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.” We evaluate hedge levels versus our hedge target
based on the overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing capital market conditions. The GAAP/capital markets valuation framework underlying our hedge target assumes that current interest rate levels remain for the full projection
period with no reversion to longer term averages. Due to the recent low interest rate environment, we decided to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition to be consistent with our long-term economic view. Because
this decision was based on the overall capital considerations of the Company as a whole, the impact on results from temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition is reported within Corporate and Other operations. For
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, “Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments” includes a loss of $1,662 million and a gain of $306 million, respectively, resulting from our decision to temporarily
hedge to a different target and the change in interest rates during the years. Through our Capital Protection Framework, we have access to on-balance sheet capital and contingent sources of capital that is available to meet capital needs arising
from our decision to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition, including funding of the after-tax realized investment losses incurred in 2011. For more information on the Company’s Capital Protection
Framework, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources.”    We assess the composition of our hedging program on an ongoing basis, and we may change it from time to time based on our evaluation of the Company’s risk position or other factors. 
  Results of Operations of Closed Block Business
   We established the Closed Block Business
effective as of the date of demutualization. The Closed Block Business includes our in force traditional domestic participating life insurance and annuity products and assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on
these policies, as well as other assets and equity and related liabilities that support these policies. We no longer offer these traditional domestic participating policies. See “—Overview—Closed Block Business” for additional
details. 
  150



Table of Contents
Each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable
on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. Although Closed Block experience for
dividend action decisions is based upon statutory results, at the time the Closed Block was established, we developed, as required by U.S. GAAP, an actuarial calculation of the timing of the maximum future earnings from the policies included in the
Closed Block. If actual cumulative earnings in any given period are greater than the cumulative earnings we expected, we will record this excess as a policyholder dividend obligation. We will subsequently pay this excess to Closed Block
policyholders as an additional dividend unless it is otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than we originally expected. The policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will
include any change in our policyholder dividend obligation that we recognize for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expected in addition to the actual policyholder dividends declared by the
Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance.    As of
December 31, 2011, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $762 million, which was recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. Actual cumulative earnings, as required by U.S. GAAP, reflect the
recognition of realized investment gains and losses in the current period, as well as changes in assets and related liabilities that support the Closed Block policies. Additionally, the accumulation of net unrealized investment gains that have
arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block have been reflected as a policyholder dividend obligation of $3,846 million at December 31, 2011, to be paid to Closed Block policyholders unless offset by future experience, with an
offsetting amount reported in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).”    Operating Results    Management does not consider adjusted operating income to assess the operating performance of the Closed Block Business. Consequently, results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are presented
only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table sets forth the Closed Block Business U.S. GAAP results for the periods indicated.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 U.S. GAAP results:
  



  



  




 Revenues
  
$
7,015
  
  
$
7,086
  
  
$
5,245
  

 Benefits and expenses
  
 
6,818
  
  
 
6,361
  
  
 
5,725
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
197
  
  
$
725
  
  
$
(480
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Income (Loss) from
Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Operating Joint Ventures    2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures decreased $528 million from $725
million in 2010 to $197 million in 2011. Results for 2011 include a $636 million policyholder dividend obligation expense as actual cumulative earnings were higher than expected cumulative earnings. This expense was $510 million higher than the
policyholder dividend obligation expense of $126 million in 2010. As noted above, as of December 31, 2011, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $762 million. If actual cumulative earnings fall below
expected cumulative earnings in future periods, earnings volatility in the Closed Block Business, which is primarily due to changes in investment results, may not be offset by changes in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation.
Results also included a $40 million increase in reserves for estimated payments arising from use of new Social Security Master Death File matching criteria to identify deceased policy and contract holders. See Note 23 to the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for further details regarding this matter. Partially offsetting these items, was an increase of $51 million in net realized investment gains, from $794 million in 2010 to $845 million in 2011, primarily resulting from higher
trading gains as part of a change in asset allocation of the portfolios and lower impairment losses, partially offset by lower investment gains from the 
  151



Table of Contents

change in value of derivatives, including interest rate swaps and futures. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see “—Realized Investment
Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.”    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures increased $1,205 million, from
a loss of $480 million in 2009 to income of $725 million in 2010. Results for 2010 include an increase of $2,079 million in net realized investment gains (losses), from losses of $1,285 million in 2009 to gains of $794 million in 2010, primarily due
to lower impairments and credit losses, as well as a net increase in the market value of derivatives used in duration management programs. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see “—Realized
Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.” Net investment income, net of interest expense, increased $67 million, primarily due to an increase in income on joint ventures and limited
partnership investments accounted for under the equity method, partially offset by lower portfolio yields. In addition, dividends paid and accrued to policyholders decreased primarily due to a decrease in the 2010 dividend scale. The impact of these
items contributed to the actual cumulative earnings which, when compared to the expected cumulative earnings, resulted in an increase in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $977 million, from 2009 compared to 2010. As
of December 31, 2010, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $126 million.   
Revenues   
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison.    Revenues, as shown in the table above under “—Operating
Results,” decreased $71 million, from $7,086 million in 2010 to $7,015 million in 2011, principally driven by a $89 million decrease in premiums, with a related decrease in changes in reserves, primarily due to the expected in force decline as
policies terminate and the $33 million decrease in net investment income primarily due to lower portfolio yields. Partially offsetting these items was an increase of $51 million in net realized investment gains, as discussed above. 
  2010 to 2009 Annual
Comparison.    Revenues, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $1,841 million, from $5,245 million in 2009 to $7,086 million in 2010, principally driven by the $2,079 million
increase in net realized investment gains (losses) and an increase of $69 million in net investment income, as discussed above. Partially offsetting these items was a decline in premiums, with a related decrease in changes in reserves, primarily due
to a lower amount of dividends available for policyholders to purchase additional insurance, as a result of the 2010 dividend scale reduction, and to a lesser extent, the expected in force decline as policies terminate. 
  Benefits and Expenses 
  2011 to 2010 Annual
Comparison.    Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under “—Operating Results,” increased $457 million, from $6,361 million in 2010 to $6,818 million in 2011. This increase included a $500 million
increase in dividends to policyholders reflecting an increase in the policyholder dividend obligation expense of $510 million, from $126 million in 2010 to $636 million in 2011, partially offset by a decrease in dividends paid and accrued to
policyholders of $10 million, primarily due to a decline in policies in force. Partially offsetting this increase was a decrease in policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves of $30 million primarily due to the impact of the decline
in premiums, partially offset by an increase in reserves for estimated payments arising from use of new Social Security Master Death File matching criteria to identify deceased policy and contract holders, as discussed above. Also, amortization of
deferred policy acquisition costs decreased $13 million reflecting the impact of lower investment gains in the calculation of actual gross profits for the period compared to the prior period.    2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison.    Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table
above under “—Operating Results,” increased $636 million, from $5,725 million in 2009 to $6,361 million in 2010. This increase included an $849 million increase in dividends to policyholders reflecting an increase in the cumulative
earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $977 million, representing an $851 million reduction in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation in 2009, compared to a $126 million increase in the cumulative earnings
policyholder dividend obligation in 2010. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in 
  152



Table of Contents

dividends paid and accrued to policyholders of $128 million, primarily due to a decrease in the 2010 dividend scale. Policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves, decreased $250
million driven by a decline in premiums, as discussed above.    Income Taxes    Shown below is our income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, separately reflecting the impact of certain significant items. Also presented below is the income tax
provision that would have resulted from application of the statutory 35% federal income tax rate in each of these periods.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Tax provision
  
$
1,599
  
 
$
1,303
  
 
$
(62
) 

 Impact of:
  



 



 




 Reversal of acquisition opening balance sheet deferred tax items
  
 
(252
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(6
) 

 Non-taxable investment income
  
 
247
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
177
  

 Uncertain tax positions and interest
  
 
57
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
286
  

 Low income housing and other tax credits
  
 
45
  
 
 
58
  
 
 
68
  

 Foreign taxes at other than U.S. rate
  
 
34
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
15
  

 Change in tax rate
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
(69
) 
 
 
0
  

 Non-deductible expenses
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
3
  

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
0
  

 Other
  
 
115
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
52
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tax provision excluding these items
  
$
1,791
  
 
$
1,537
  
 
$
533
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tax provision at statutory rate
  
$
1,791
  
 
$
1,537
  
 
$
533
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Our income tax provision
amounted to an income tax expense of $1,599 million in 2011 compared to $1,303 million in 2010. The increase in income tax expense reflects the increase in pre-tax income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of
operating joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 2011. In addition, our 2011 income tax expense includes an additional U.S. tax expense of $246 million related to the realization of a portion of the local deferred tax assets existing on
the opening balance sheet for the Star and Edison Businesses. The local utilization of the deferred tax asset coupled with the repatriation assumption for the applicable earnings of our Japanese entities, creates the effect of a “double
tax” for U.S. GAAP purposes. In addition, 2011 income tax expense includes a charge for the remeasurement of the deferred tax liabilities in the amount of $28 million related to a tax rate increase in Korea. These increases in annual tax
expense were partially offset by a 2011 tax benefit of $42 million for the reversal of the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets for loss carryforwards of a Japanese insurance subsidiary and a $70 million tax benefit for the release of a
liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to the conclusion of the federal tax audit for tax years 2004 through 2006. Furthermore, income tax expense for 2010 included a charge for the reduction of deferred tax assets in the amount of $94
million related to the Medicare Part D subsidy. In 2010, the Company recognized a higher tax expense of $21 million reflecting an increased valuation allowance against the state and local deferred tax assets of certain non-insurance subsidiaries.
   We employ various tax strategies, including
strategies to minimize the amount of taxes resulting from realized capital gains.    For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
Discontinued Operations   
Included within net income are the results of businesses which are reflected as discontinued operations under U.S. GAAP. Income (loss)
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, was $35 million, $33 million and $(19) million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  153



Table of Contents
For additional information regarding discontinued operations see Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.    Divested Businesses
   Our income from continuing operations
includes results from several businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that do not qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. The results of these divested businesses are reflected in our
Corporate and Other operations, but excluded from adjusted operating income. For a further description of these divested businesses, see “Business—Corporate and Other.” A summary of the results of these divested businesses that have
been excluded from adjusted operating income is as follows for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Financial Advisory
  
$
(7
) 
 
$
(19
) 
 
$
2,167
  

 Real Estate and Relocation Services Business
  
 
81
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
(30
) 

 Property and Casualty Insurance
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(21
) 

 Individual Health Insurance
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
(15
) 

 Other(1)
  
 
3
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(15
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total divested businesses excluded from adjusted operating income
  
$
54
  
 
$
(25
) 
 
$
2,086
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Primarily represents commercial mortgage securitization operations and Prudential Securities Capital Markets and exchange traded shares previously held by Prudential
Equity Group.    Financial Advisory
   In 2008, we classified our Financial
Advisory business as a divested business, reflecting our intention to exit this business. This business consists of our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture, in addition to expenses relating to obligations and costs we retained
in connection with the businesses we contributed to the joint venture, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters. On December 31, 2009, we completed the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities, which includes
Wells Fargo Advisors, to Wells Fargo. At the closing, we received $4.5 billion in cash as the purchase price of our joint venture interest and de-recognized the carrying value related to our investment in the joint venture. Results for 2009 include
the associated pre-tax gain on the sale of $2.247 billion, which is reflected in “Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes” in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Results for 2009 also include certain one-time
costs related to the sale of the joint venture interest of $104 million, for pre-tax compensation costs and costs related to increased contributions to our charitable foundation. 
  Real Estate and Relocations Services Business 
  On December 6, 2011, we sold our real estate brokerage
franchise and relocation services business which was comprised of PRERS to Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. We retained ownership of PREFSA, a finance subsidiary of PRERS with debt and equity investments in a limited number of real estate brokerage
franchises. The results of these operations, inclusive of PREFSA, are reflected as a divested business for all periods presented. The proceeds from the sale, before transaction related expenses, were $108 million and resulted in a pre-tax gain of
approximately $49 million.    Experience-Rated
Contractholder Liabilities,  Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Related Investments
   Certain products included in the Retirement
and International Insurance segments are experience-rated in that investment results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The 
  154



Table of Contents

majority of investments supporting these experience-rated products are classified as trading and are carried at fair value. These trading investments are reflected on the statements of financial
position as “Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value” (“TAASIL”). Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are reported in “Asset management fees and other income.”
Interest and dividend income for these investments is reported in “Net investment income.” To a lesser extent, these experience-rated products are also supported by derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans. The derivatives that
support these experience-rated products are reflected on the statement of financial position as “Other long-term investments” and are carried at fair value, and the realized and unrealized gains and losses are reported in “Realized
investment gains (losses), net.” The commercial mortgage and other loans that support these experience-rated products are carried at unpaid principal, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses, and are reflected on the statements
of financial position as “Commercial mortgage and other loans.” Gains and losses on sales and changes in the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans are reported in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.”
   Our Retirement segment has two types of
experience-rated products that are supported by TAASIL and other related investments. Fully participating products are those for which the entire return on underlying investments is passed back to the policyholders through a corresponding adjustment
to the related liability. The adjustment to the liability is based on changes in the fair value of all of the related assets, including commercial mortgage and other loans, which are carried at amortized cost, less any valuation allowance. Partially
participating products are those for which only a portion of the return on underlying investments is passed back to the policyholders over time through changes to the contractual crediting rates. The crediting rates are typically reset semiannually,
often subject to a minimum crediting rate, and returns are required to be passed back within ten years.   
In our International Insurance segment, the experience-rated products are fully participating. As a result, the entire return on the
underlying investments is passed back to policyholders through a corresponding adjustment to the related liability.   
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses on TAASIL, related derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans.
This is consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains and losses with respect to other investments supporting insurance liabilities managed on a consistent basis. In addition, to be consistent with the historical treatment of charges
related to realized investment gains and losses on investments, adjusted operating income also excludes the change in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments (including changes in the fair value of commercial
mortgage and other loans) supporting these experience-rated contracts, which are reflected in “Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances.” The result of this approach is that adjusted operating income for these products
includes net fee revenue and interest spread we earn on these experience-rated contracts, and excludes changes in fair value of the pool of investments, both realized and unrealized, that we expect will ultimately accrue to the contractholders.

  155



Table of Contents
The following tables set forth the impact of these items on results that are excluded from
adjusted operating income for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Retirement Segment:
  



 



 




 Investment gains (losses) on:
  



 



 




 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net
  
$
383
  
 
$
468
  
 
$
1,533
  

 Derivatives
  
 
(160
) 
 
 
50
  
 
 
(131
) 

 Commercial mortgages and other loans
  
 
9
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
(44
) 

 Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(1)(2)
  
 
(283
) 
 
 
(598
) 
 
 
(831
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gains (losses)
  
$
(51
) 
 
$
(74
) 
 
$
527
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 International Insurance Segment:
  



 



 




 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net
  
$
(160
) 
 
$
33
  
 
$
68
  

 Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes
  
 
160
  
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(68
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gains (losses)
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total:
  



 



 




 Investment gains (losses) on:
  



 



 




 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net
  
$
223
  
 
$
501
  
 
$
1,601
  

 Derivatives
  
 
(160
) 
 
 
50
  
 
 
(131
) 

 Commercial mortgages and other loans
  
 
9
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
(44
) 

 Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(1)(2)
  
 
(123
) 
 
 
(631
) 
 
 
(899
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gains (losses)
  
$
(51
) 
 
$
(74
) 
 
$
527
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Decreases to contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes are limited by certain floors and therefore do not reflect cumulative declines in recorded asset
values of $7 million, $9 million and $35 million as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We have recovered and expect to recover in future periods these declines in recorded asset values through subsequent increases in recorded
asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities. 


(2)
 
Included in the amounts above related to the change in the liability to contractholders as a result of commercial mortgage and other loans are increases of $55 million,
$108 million and $105 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As prescribed by U.S. GAAP, changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans held for investment in our general account, other
than when associated with impairments, are not recognized in income in the current period, while the impact of these changes in fair value are reflected as a change in the liability to fully participating contractholders in the current period.
   As shown in the table above, the
net impacts for the Retirement segment of changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities and investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other related investments were net losses of $51 million
and $74 million and net gains of $527 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These impacts primarily reflect timing differences between the recognition of the mark-to-market adjustments and the recognition
of the recovery of these adjustments in future periods through subsequent increases in asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities for partially participating products. These impacts also reflect the difference
between the fair value of the underlying commercial mortgage and other loans and the amortized cost, less any valuation allowance, of these loans, as described above. 
  As shown in the table above, the International Insurance
segment includes offsetting impacts, in all periods, from changes in investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and experience-rated contractholder liabilities. 
  Valuation of Assets and Liabilities 
  Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities 
  The authoritative guidance related to fair value established
a framework for measuring fair value that includes a hierarchy used to classify the inputs used in measuring fair value. The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels. The level in the fair
value hierarchy within 
  156



Table of Contents

which the fair value measurement falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
description of these levels.    The tables below
present the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, split between the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, by fair value hierarchy level. See Note 20
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis presented on a consolidated basis.   
























 
  
Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
 
Level 3(1)
 
  
Netting(2)
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
  



  



 



  



 




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
0
  
  
$
9,524
  
 
$
43
  
  
$
 
  
 
$
9,567
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,277
  
 
 
0
  
  



 
 
2,277
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
  
  
 
76,401
  
 
 
13
  
  



 
 
76,414
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
12
  
  
 
96,090
  
 
 
1,016
  
  



 
 
97,118
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
4,654
  
 
 
1,867
  
  



 
 
6,521
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
8,220
  
 
 
145
  
  



 
 
8,365
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
7,856
  
 
 
14
  
  



 
 
7,870
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
12
  
  
 
205,022
  
 
 
3,098
  
  



 
 
208,132
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities:
  



  



 



  



 




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
  
  
 
177
  
 
 
9
  
  



 
 
186
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
  
 
284
  
 
 
0
  
  



 
 
284
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
  
  
 
655
  
 
 
0
  
  



 
 
655
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
10,927
  
 
 
109
  
  



 
 
11,036
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,010
  
 
 
357
  
  



 
 
1,367
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,226
  
 
 
21
  
  



 
 
2,247
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,842
  
 
 
2
  
  



 
 
1,844
  

 Equity securities
  
 
769
  
  
 
122
  
 
 
20
  
  



 
 
911
  

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
684
  
  
 
267
  
 
 
0
  
  



 
 
951
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
1,453
  
  
 
17,510
  
 
 
518
  
  



 
 
19,481
  

 Other trading account assets:
  



  



 



  



 




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
  
  
 
31
  
 
 
0
  
  



 
 
31
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



 
 
0
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
2
  
  
 
45
  
 
 
0
  
  



 
 
47
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
14
  
  
 
383
  
 
 
39
  
  



 
 
436
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
523
  
 
 
59
  
  



 
 
582
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
96
  
 
 
14
  
  



 
 
110
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
94
  
 
 
2
  
  



 
 
96
  

 Equity securities
  
 
300
  
  
 
40
  
 
 
1,153
  
  



 
 
1,493
  

 All other(3)
  
 
15
  
  
 
13,547
  
 
 
93
  
  
 
(11,222
) 
 
 
2,433
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
331
  
  
 
14,759
  
 
 
1,360
  
  
 
(11,222
) 
 
 
5,228
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
1,909
  
  
 
2,171
  
 
 
333
  
  



 
 
4,413
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
514
  
 
 
86
  
  



 
 
600
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
192
  
  
 
(195
) 
 
 
1,110
  
  



 
 
1,107
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
5,035
  
  
 
3,197
  
 
 
0
  
  



 
 
8,232
  

 Cash equivalents
  
 
2,595
  
  
 
5,797
  
 
 
0
  
  



 
 
8,392
  

 Other assets
  
 
3
  
  
 
(25
) 
 
 
9
  
  



 
 
(13
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal excluding separate account assets
  
 
11,530
  
  
 
248,750
  
 
 
6,514
  
  
 
(11,222
) 
 
 
255,572
  

 Separate account assets(4)
  
 
40,319
  
  
 
158,703
  
 
 
19,358
  
  



 
 
218,380
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
51,849
  
  
$
407,453
  
 
$
25,872
  
  
$
(11,222)
  
 
$
473,952
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Future policy benefits
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
2,886
  
  
$
 
  
 
$
2,886
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
0
  
  
 
8,013
  
 
 
285
  
  
 
(7,854
) 
 
 
444
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
0
  
  
$
8,013
  
 
$
3,171
  
  
$
(7,854
) 
 
$
3,330
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  157



Table of Contents
























 
  
Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3(1)
 
  
Netting(2)
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
0
  
  
$
5,514
  
  
$
23
  
  
$
            
  
  
$
5,537
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
  
 
778
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
778
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
  
  
 
561
  
  
 
12
  
  



  
 
573
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
29,321
  
  
 
434
  
  



  
 
29,755
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
3,511
  
  
 
661
  
  



  
 
4,172
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
3,715
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
3,715
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,984
  
  
 
2
  
  



  
 
1,986
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
0
  
  
 
45,384
  
  
 
1,132
  
  



  
 
46,516
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Other trading account assets:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
119
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
119
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
70
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
70
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Equity securities
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
123
  
  



  
 
128
  

 All other(3)
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
5
  
  
 
189
  
  
 
123
  
  



  
 
317
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
3,095
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
27
  
  



  
 
3,122
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
1
  
  
 
184
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
185
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
471
  
  
 
57
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
528
  

 Cash equivalents
  
 
72
  
  
 
965
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
1,037
  

 Other assets
  
 
0
  
  
 
111
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
111
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal excluding separate account assets
  
 
3,644
  
  
 
46,890
  
  
 
1,282
  
  



  
 
51,816
  

 Separate account assets(4)
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,644
  
  
$
46,890
  
  
$
1,282
  
  
$
 
  
  
$
51,816
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Future policy benefits
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
 
  
  
$
0
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
 
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 5% and 2% for Financial Services Businesses and
Closed Block Business, respectively. Excluding separate account assets for which the risk is borne by the policyholder, the amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 3% for our
Financial Services Businesses. The amount of Level 3 liabilities was immaterial to our balance sheet. 


(2)
 
“Netting” amounts represent cash collateral and the impact of offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty.



(3)
 
Primarily represents derivative assets. 


(4)
 
Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the
customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by us with respect to certain accounts. Separate account assets classified as Level 3 consist primarily of real estate and real estate investment funds. Separate account liabilities are not
included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
  158



Table of Contents
























 
  
Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2010(4)
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
 
Level 3(1)
 
 
Netting(2)
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
  



  



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
0
  
  
$
5,264
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
 
  
 
$
5,264
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,574
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
1,574
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
  
  
 
49,549
  
 
 
13
  
 



 
 
49,562
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
5
  
  
 
69,843
  
 
 
694
  
 



 
 
70,542
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
5,713
  
 
 
1,348
  
 



 
 
7,061
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
8,128
  
 
 
130
  
 



 
 
8,258
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
7,525
  
 
 
20
  
 



 
 
7,545
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
5
  
  
 
147,596
  
 
 
2,205
  
 



 
 
149,806
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities:
  



  



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
  
  
 
266
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
266
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
  
 
182
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
182
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
  
  
 
569
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
569
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
10,036
  
 
 
82
  
 



 
 
10,118
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
804
  
 
 
226
  
 



 
 
1,030
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,402
  
 
 
5
  
 



 
 
2,407
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,345
  
 
 
18
  
 



 
 
1,363
  

 Equity securities
  
 
935
  
  
 
200
  
 
 
4
  
 



 
 
1,139
  

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
606
  
  
 
91
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
697
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
1,541
  
  
 
15,895
  
 
 
335
  
 



 
 
17,771
  

 Other trading account assets:
  



  



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
  
  
 
96
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
96
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
118
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
118
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
1
  
  
 
24
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
25
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
14
  
  
 
151
  
 
 
35
  
 



 
 
200
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
574
  
 
 
50
  
 



 
 
624
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
84
  
 
 
19
  
 



 
 
103
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
163
  
 
 
18
  
 



 
 
181
  

 Equity securities
  
 
392
  
  
 
142
  
 
 
26
  
 



 
 
560
  

 All other(3)
  
 
33
  
  
 
7,899
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
(5,904
) 
 
 
2,162
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
558
  
  
 
9,133
  
 
 
282
  
 
 
(5,904
) 
 
 
4,069
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
1,038
  
  
 
2,788
  
 
 
322
  
 



 
 
4,148
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
136
  
 
 
212
  
 



 
 
348
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
37
  
  
 
169
  
 
 
768
  
 



 
 
974
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
2,171
  
  
 
1,641
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
3,812
  

 Cash equivalents
  
 
2,332
  
  
 
6,359
  
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
8,691
  

 Other assets
  
 
2,785
  
  
 
(107
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 



 
 
2,676
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal excluding separate account assets
  
 
10,467
  
  
 
183,610
  
 
 
4,122
  
 
 
(5,904
) 
 
 
192,295
  

 Separate account assets(4)
  
 
43,273
  
  
 
148,711
  
 
 
15,792
  
 



 
 
207,776
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
53,740
  
  
$
332,321
  
 
$
19,914
  
 
$
(5,904
) 
 
$
400,071
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Future policy benefits
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
(204
) 
 
$
 
  
 
$
(204
) 

 Other liabilities
  
 
1
  
  
 
6,736
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
(5,712
) 
 
 
1,027
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
1
  
  
$
6,736
  
 
$
(202
) 
 
$
(5,712
) 
 
$
823
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  159



Table of Contents
























 
  
Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2010(5)
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
 
Level 3(1)
 
  
Netting(2)
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
  



  



 



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
0
  
  
$
6,034
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
            
  
  
$
6,034
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
  
 
657
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
657
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
  
  
 
663
  
 
 
14
  
  



  
 
677
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
27,182
  
 
 
493
  
  



  
 
27,675
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
3,525
  
 
 
405
  
  



  
 
3,930
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
3,779
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
3,779
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,422
  
 
 
3
  
  



  
 
2,425
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
0
  
  
 
44,262
  
 
 
915
  
  



  
 
45,177
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Other trading account assets:
  



  



 



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
118
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
118
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
33
  
 
 
4
  
  



  
 
37
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Equity securities
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
1
  

 All other(3)
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
1
  
  
 
151
  
 
 
4
  
  



  
 
156
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
3,420
  
  
 
140
  
 
 
33
  
  



  
 
3,593
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
0
  
  
 
(40
) 
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
(40
) 

 Short-term investments
  
 
1,136
  
  
 
28
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
1,164
  

 Cash equivalents
  
 
143
  
  
 
302
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
445
  

 Other assets
  
 
0
  
  
 
107
  
 
 
11
  
  



  
 
118
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal excluding separate account assets
  
 
4,700
  
  
 
44,950
  
 
 
963
  
  



  
 
50,613
  

 Separate account assets(4)
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  



  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
4,700
  
  
$
44,950
  
 
$
963
  
  
$
 
  
  
$
50,613
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Future policy benefits
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
 
  
  
$
0
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
  



  
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
1
  
  
$
 
  
  
$
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 5% and 2% for the Financial Services Businesses
and Closed Block Business, respectively. Excluding separate account assets for which the risk is borne by the policyholder, the amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 2% for
the Financial Services Businesses. The amount of Level 3 liabilities was immaterial to our balance sheet. 


(2)
 
“Netting” amounts represent cash collateral and the impact of offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty.



(3)
 
Primarily represents derivative assets. 


(4)
 
Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the
customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by us with respect to certain accounts. Separate account assets classified as Level 3 consist primarily of real estate and real estate investment funds. Separate account liabilities are not
included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 


(5)
 
Includes reclassifications to conform to current period presentation. 
  For additional information regarding the balances of assets
and liabilities measured at fair value by hierarchy level see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
The determination of fair value, which for certain assets and liabilities is dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions,
can have a significant impact on our results of operations. As discussed in more detail below, the determination of fair value for certain assets and liabilities may require the application of a greater degree of judgment depending on market
conditions, as the ability to value assets and liabilities can be significantly impacted by a decrease in market activity or a lack of transactions executed in an orderly manner. 
  160



Table of Contents

For a description of the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following sections provide additional
information regarding certain assets and liabilities of our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business which are valued using Level 3 inputs and could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Information regarding
separate account assets is excluded as the risk of assets for these categories is primarily borne by our customers and policyholders.   
Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities   
Public fixed maturity securities are generally valued using the price provided by independent pricing services under our normal pricing
protocol. Securities with prices based on validated quotes from pricing services are generally reflected within Level 2. Public fixed maturity securities included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy are generally priced based on
internally-developed valuations or non-binding broker quotes. For certain private fixed maturity and equity securities, the discounted cash flow or other valuation model uses significant unobservable inputs, and accordingly, such securities are
included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy.   
Level 3 fixed maturity securities included approximately $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2011 and $2.1 billion as of
December 31, 2010 of public fixed maturities, with values primarily based on non-binding broker-quotes, and approximately $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2011 and $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2010 of private fixed maturities, with
the majority of values based on internally-developed models. Significant unobservable inputs used included: issue specific credit adjustments, material non-public financial information, management judgment, estimation of future earnings and cash
flows, default rate assumptions, liquidity assumptions and non-binding quotes from market makers. These inputs are usually considered unobservable, as not all market participants will have access to this data. 
  The impact our determination of fair value for fixed maturity
and equity securities has on our results of operations is dependent on our classification of the security as either trading, available-for-sale, or held-to-maturity. For our investments classified as trading, the impact of changes in fair value is
recorded within “Asset management fees and other income.” For our investments classified as available-for-sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in “Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss),” a separate component of equity. Our investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortized cost.   
Other Long-Term Investments   
The fair value of real estate held in consolidated investment funds is determined through an independent appraisal process. The appraisals
generally utilize a discounted cash flow model, following an income approach that incorporates various assumptions including rental revenue, operating expenses and discount rates. The appraisals also include replacement cost estimates and recent
sales data as alternate methods of fair value. These appraisals and the related assumptions are updated at least annually, and incorporate historical property experience and any observable market data, including any market transactions. Since many
of the assumptions utilized are unobservable and are considered to be significant inputs to the valuation, the real estate investments within other long-term investments have been reflected within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Consolidated
real estate investment funds classified as Level 3 totaled approximately $0.4 billion as of both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Our direct investment in these funds is not material, and the majority of the assets recorded as a
result of the consolidation of these funds are offset by a noncontrolling interest reflected as a separate component of equity. The noncontrolling interest is not considered to be fair valued and therefore is not included in fair value reporting
above. The fair value of fund investments, where the fair value option has been elected, is primarily determined by the fund managers. Since the valuations may be based on unobservable market inputs and cannot be validated by the Company, these
investments have also been included within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Investments in these funds included in Level 3 totaled approximately $0.4 billion as of December 31, 2011 and $0.3 billion as of December 31, 2010.
   Derivative Instruments 
  Derivatives are recorded at fair value either as assets,
within “Other trading account assets,” or “Other long-term investments,” or as liabilities, within “Other liabilities,” except for embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host contract. The fair
values of derivative contracts are determined based on quoted 
  161



Table of Contents

prices in active exchanges or through the use of valuation models, and are affected by changes in market factors including non-performance risk. The majority of our derivative positions are
traded in the over the counter (OTC) derivative market and are classified within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy since their significant inputs have bid and ask prices that are actively quoted or can be readily obtained from external market data
providers. Our policy is to use mid-market pricing consistent with our best estimate of fair value.    Derivatives classified as Level 3 include first-to-default credit basket swaps, look-back equity options and other structured products. These derivatives are valued based upon models with some significant
unobservable market inputs or inputs from less actively traded markets. Derivatives classified within Level 3 are validated through periodic comparison of our fair values to broker-dealer values. The fair values of OTC derivative assets and
liabilities classified as Level 3 totaled approximately $84 million and $3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011 and $126 million and $3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010, without giving consideration to the impact of
netting.    For additional information regarding
embedded derivatives in our annuity and retirement products classified as Level 3, see “—Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features” below. 
  All realized and unrealized changes in fair value of
derivatives, with the exception of the effective portion of qualifying cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, are recorded in current earnings. Generally, the changes in fair value of non-dealer related derivatives,
excluding those that qualify for hedge accounting, are recorded in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” For additional information regarding the impact of changes in fair value of derivative instruments on our results of operations
see “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.” Dealer related derivative activity related to the Company’s former global commodities group is reported in
“Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes.”    Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features   
Our liability for future policy benefits includes general account liabilities for guarantees on variable annuity contracts, including
guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (“GMAB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (“GMWB”) and guaranteed minimum income and withdrawal benefits (“GMIWB”). While these guarantees primarily relate to the optional
living benefit features of our Individual Annuities segment, they are also included in certain variable annuities in our International Insurance segment and certain retirement account based group variable annuities in our Retirement segment. These
benefits are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” 
  The fair values of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB liabilities are
calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. This methodology could result in either a liability or contra-liability
balance, given changing capital market conditions and various policyholder behavior assumptions. Since there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated using internally-developed models with
option pricing techniques. Because there are significant assumptions utilized in the valuation of the embedded derivatives associated with our optional living benefit features that are primarily unobservable, the liability included in future policy
benefits has been reflected within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy.    We are also required to incorporate the market-perceived risk of our own non-performance (“NPR”) in the valuation of the embedded derivatives associated with our optional living benefit
features. Since insurance liabilities are senior to debt, we believe that reflecting the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries in the valuation of the liability appropriately takes into consideration our NPR. To reflect the NPR,
we incorporate an additional credit spread over LIBOR rates into the discount rate used in the valuations of the embedded derivative liability. The additional credit spread over LIBOR rates incorporated into the discount rate as of December 31,
2011 generally ranged from 150 to 250 basis points for the portion of the interest rate curve most relevant to these liabilities. This additional spread is applied at an individual contract level and only to those individual living benefit contracts
in a liability position and not to those in a contra-liability position. We also adjust these spreads to remove any illiquidity risk premium, subject to a floor based on a percentage of the credit spread. 
  162



Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2011, the value of the embedded derivatives associated with the
optional living benefit features of the Individual Annuities segment, before the adjustment for NPR, was a net liability of $8,341 million. This net liability was comprised of $8,555 million of individual living benefit contracts in a liability
position, net of $214 million of individual living benefit contracts in a contra-liability position. As of December 31, 2011, our adjustment for NPR resulted in a $5,509 million cumulative decrease to the embedded derivative liability for the
Individual Annuities segment, reflecting the additional credit spread over LIBOR rates we incorporated into the discount rate used in the valuations of those individual living benefit contracts in a liability position. This adjustment for NPR
represents an increase of $4,786 million in 2011 for the Individual Annuities segment primarily resulting from a higher base of embedded derivative liabilities, driven by significant declines in risk-free interest rates and the impact of account
value performance, as well as an overall widening of the spreads used in valuing NPR, which reflect the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries. Partially offsetting these items was a $506 million charge relating to a refinement to
the calculation of the NPR that we implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011, which incorporates a floor to the illiquidity risk premium reduction at a percentage of the credit spread.    The change in fair value of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB resulted in a net liability of $2,886 million as of
December 31, 2011, compared to a net contra-liability of $204 million as of December 31, 2010. The change primarily reflects a higher base of embedded derivative liabilities driven by significant declines in risk-free interest rates and
the impact of account value performance, as well as an overall widening of the spreads used in valuing NPR, as noted above, which were primarily in our Individual Annuities segment as described in more detail under “—Results of Operations
for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.”   
Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments    Realized Investment Gains and Losses 
  Realized investment gains and losses are generated from
numerous sources, including the sale of fixed maturity securities, equity securities, investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships and other types of investments, as well as adjustments to the cost basis of investments for
other-than-temporary impairments. Realized investment gains and losses are also generated from prepayment premiums received on private fixed maturity securities, recoveries of principal on previously impaired securities, net changes in the allowance
for losses, as well as gains and losses on sales, certain restructurings and foreclosures on commercial mortgage and other loans, fair value changes on commercial mortgage loans carried at fair value, and fair value changes on embedded derivatives
and free-standing derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, except those derivatives used in our capacity as a broker or dealer.  
For a further discussion of our policies regarding other-than-temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for
recording fixed maturity other-than-temporary impairments, see “—General Account Investments—Fixed Maturity Securities—Other-Than-Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities” below. For a further discussion of our
policies regarding other-than-temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording equity impairments, see “—General Account Investments—Equity Securities—Other-than-Temporary Impairments of Equity
Securities” below. For a further discussion of our policy regarding commercial mortgage and other loans, see “—General Account Investments—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan
Quality” below.    The level of
other-than-temporary impairments generally reflects economic conditions and is expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and to decrease when economic conditions improve. Historically, the causes of other-than-temporary impairments have
been specific to each individual issuer and have not directly resulted in impairments to other securities within the same industry or geographic region. As discussed in more detail below, certain of the other-than-temporary impairments recognized
for the year ended December 31, 2011 related to foreign currency translation losses on securities that are approaching maturity, as well as adverse financial conditions of the respective issuer on asset-backed securities collateralized by
sub-prime mortgages and Japanese commercial mortgage-backed securities. Other-than-temporary impairments recognized for the year ended December 31, 2010 were primarily related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime

  163



Table of Contents

mortgages and Japanese commercial mortgage-backed securities that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, foreign currency translation losses related to foreign
denominated securities that are approaching maturity, and the intent to sell securities, primarily related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages.
  We may realize additional credit and interest rate related
losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. Other-than-temporary impairments, interest rate related losses and credit related losses on sales (other than those related to certain of our
businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors) are excluded from adjusted operating income.  
We require most issuers of private fixed maturity securities to pay us make-whole yield maintenance payments when they prepay the
securities. Prepayments are driven by factors specific to the activities of our borrowers as well as the interest rate environment.  
We use interest rate and currency swaps and other derivatives to manage interest and currency exchange rate exposures arising from
mismatches between assets and liabilities, including duration mismatches. We use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk that unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates will reduce U.S. dollar equivalent earnings generated by certain of our
non-U.S. businesses. We also use equity-based and interest rate derivatives to hedge the risks embedded in some of our annuity products. Derivative contracts also include forward purchases and sales of to-be-announced mortgage-backed securities
primarily related to our dollar roll program. Many of these derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, and consequently, we recognize the changes in fair value of such contracts from period to period in current earnings, although we
do not necessarily account for the related assets or liabilities the same way. Accordingly, realized investment gains and losses from our derivative activities can contribute significantly to fluctuations in net income.
  Adjusted operating income generally excludes “Realized
investment gains (losses), net,” subject to certain exceptions (realized investment gains or losses within certain of our businesses for which such gains or losses are a principal source of earnings and those associated with terminating hedges
of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments), and related charges and adjustments. 
  164



Table of Contents
The following tables set forth “Realized investment gains (losses), net,” by
investment type for the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, as well as related charges and adjustments associated with the Financial Services Businesses, for the periods indicated. For additional details regarding adjusted
operating income, which is our measure of performance for the segments of our Financial Services Businesses, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net:
  



 



 




 Financial Services Businesses
  
$
1,986
  
 
$
256
  
 
$
(1,612
) 

 Closed Block Business
  
 
845
  
 
 
794
  
 
 
(1,285
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
2,831
  
 
$
1,050
  
 
$
(2,897
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financial Services Businesses:
  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net:
  



 



 




 Fixed maturity securities
  
$
(125
) 
 
$
(361
) 
 
$
(823
) 

 Equity securities
  
 
(120
) 
 
 
11
  
 
 
(402
) 

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
89
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
(517
) 

 Derivative instruments
  
 
2,095
  
 
 
601
  
 
 
171
  

 Other
  
 
47
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
(41
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,986
  
 
$
256
  
 
$
(1,612
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Related adjustments(1)
  
 
535
  
 
 
(140
) 
 
 
396
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments
  
 
2,521
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
(1,216
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Related charges(2)
  
 
(1,836
) 
 
 
(178
) 
 
 
(492
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments
  
$
685
  
 
$
(62
) 
 
$
(1,708
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Closed Block Business:
  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net:
  



 



 




 Fixed maturity securities
  
$
355
  
 
$
117
  
 
$
(381
) 

 Equity securities
  
 
265
  
 
 
174
  
 
 
(473
) 

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
33
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
(85
) 

 Derivative instruments
  
 
199
  
 
 
489
  
 
 
(298
) 

 Other
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(48
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
845
  
 
$
794
  
 
$
(1,285
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Related adjustments include that portion of “Realized investment gains (losses), net,” that are included in adjusted operating income, including those
pertaining to certain derivative contracts, as well as those within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings. Related adjustments also include that portion of “Asset management fees and other
income” and “Net investment income” that are excluded from adjusted operating income, including the change in value due to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates during the period on certain assets and liabilities
for which we economically hedge the foreign currency exposure, realized and unrealized gains and losses on certain general account investments classified as “Other trading account assets,” as well as counterparty credit losses on
derivative positions. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these related adjustments. 


(2)
 
Reflects charges that are excluded from adjusted operating income, as described more fully in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  165



Table of Contents
2011 to 2010 Annual Comparison    Financial Services Businesses 
  The Financial Services Businesses’ net realized
investment gains in 2011 were $1,986 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $256 million in 2010.   
Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $125 million in 2011, compared to net realized losses of $361 million in 2010, as
set forth in the following table:   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net—Fixed Maturity Securities—Financial Services Businesses
  



 




 Gross realized investment gains:
  



 




 Gross gains on sales and maturities(1)
  
$
527
  
 
$
380
  

 Private bond prepayment premiums
  
 
36
  
 
 
37
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross realized investment gains
  
 
563
  
 
 
417
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross realized investment losses:
  



 




 Net other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings(2)
  
 
(431
) 
 
 
(564
) 

 Gross losses on sales and maturities(1)
  
 
(250
) 
 
 
(173
) 

 Credit related losses on sales
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
(41
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross realized investment losses
  
 
(688
) 
 
 
(778
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net—Fixed Maturity Securities
  
$
(125
) 
 
$
(361
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities—Fixed Maturity Securities(1)
  
$
277
  
 
$
207
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Amounts exclude prepayment premiums, other-than-temporary impairments, and credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio
management objectives. 


(2)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment.   
Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $277 million in 2011 were primarily due to sales within our
Retirement and Individual Annuities segments. Included in the gross gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities were $35 million of gross gains related to the sale of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Net
trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $207 million in 2010 were primarily due to sales within our Retirement and Individual Annuities segments. Included in the gross gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity
securities were $4 million of gross gains related to the sale of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Sales of fixed maturity securities in our Individual Annuities segment in both years were primarily due to transfers of
investments out of our general account and into separate accounts relating to an automatic rebalancing element associated with certain living benefit features of some of our variable annuity products. See below for additional information regarding
the other-than-temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2011 and 2010.   Net realized losses on equity securities were $120 million in 2011, of which other-than-temporary impairments were $94 million and net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $26 million. Net
trading losses in 2011 were primarily due to public equity sales within our International Insurance operations. Net realized gains on equity securities were $11 million in 2010, of which net trading gains on sales of equity securities were $89
million, partially offset by other-than-temporary impairments of $78 million. Net trading gains in 2010 were primarily due to private equity sales within our Corporate and Other and International Insurance operations. See below for additional
information regarding the other-than-temporary impairments of equity securities in 2011 and 2010.   Net realized gains on commercial mortgage and other loans in 2011 were $89 million, primarily related to a net decrease in the loan loss reserves of $169 million, which was largely offset by $139 million
of realized losses on related restructurings and sales within our Asset Management and International Insurance businesses. In addition, there were $32 million of mark-to-market gains on our interim loan portfolio. Net realized gains on

  166



Table of Contents

commercial mortgage and other loans in 2010 were $35 million and primarily related to a net decrease in the loan loss reserves of $103 million and mark-to-market net gains on our interim loan
portfolio. These net gains were partially offset by net realized losses on loan modifications, payoffs, and foreclosures within our Asset Management business. For additional information regarding our commercial mortgage and other loan loss reserves
see “—General Account Investments—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality.”  
Net realized gains on derivatives were $2,095 million in 2011, compared to net realized gains of $601 million in 2010. The net derivative
gains in 2011 include net gains of $1,375 million related to product embedded derivatives and related hedge positions primarily associated with certain variable annuity contracts. See “—Results of Operations for Financial Services
Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities” for additional information. Also, contributing to the net derivative gains were net mark-to-market gains of $498 million on
interest rate derivatives used to manage duration as interest rates declined during 2011, and net gains of $214 million on foreign currency forward contracts used in our Star and Edison businesses to hedge portfolio assets primarily due to the
strengthening of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar and Australian dollar. The net derivative gains in 2010 primarily reflect net gains of $521 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration as interest rates declined and net
gains of $325 million primarily related to embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. See “—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement
Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities” for additional information. Also contributing to the 2010 gains are net derivative gains of $99 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign-denominated
investments and net gains of $43 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally-managed investments in the European market. Partially offsetting the 2010 gains were net derivative losses of $319 million on foreign currency
forward contracts used to hedge the future income of non-U.S. businesses primarily in Japan and net losses of $75 million on credit derivatives as credit spreads tightened. 
  Net realized gains on other investments were $47 million in
2011, which included a $64 million gain on the partial sale of a real estate seed investment, partially offset by $33 million of other other-than-temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships and real estate investments. Net realized
losses on other investments were $30 million in 2010, which reflected $30 million of other other-than-temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships and real estate investments.    Related adjustments include that portion of “Realized investment gains (losses), net” that are
included in adjusted operating income and that portion of “Asset management fees and other income” and “Net investment income” that are excluded from adjusted operating income. The adjustments are made to arrive at “Realized
investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments” which are excluded from adjusted operating income. Related adjustments to realized investment gains (losses) were a net positive adjustment of $535 million in 2011. Adjustments for that
portion of “Realized investment gains (losses), net” that are included in adjusted operating income were a net negative adjustment of $240 million, driven by $154 million of gains that represent a principal source of earnings for certain
of our businesses, including $64 million from the partial sale of a real estate seed investment, as well as $259 million of gains primarily from settlements on interest rate and currency swaps, partially offset by $175 million of losses related to
the settlements of swaps used to hedge foreign-denominated earnings. Adjustments for that portion of “Asset management fees and other income” and “Net investment income” that are excluded from adjusted operating income were a net
positive adjustment of $775 million, primarily driven by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on certain assets and liabilities for which we economically hedge the foreign currency exposure. 
  Related adjustments to realized investment gains (losses)
were a net negative adjustment of $140 million in 2010. Adjustments for that portion of “Realized investment gains (losses), net” that are included in adjusted operating income were a net negative adjustment of $167 million, driven by $243
million of gains primarily from settlements on interest rate and currency swaps, partially offset by $93 million of losses related to the settlements of swaps used to hedge foreign-denominated earnings. Adjustments for that portion of “Asset
management fees and other income” and “Net investment income” that are excluded from adjusted operating income were a net positive adjustment of $27 million, primarily driven by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates
on certain assets and liabilities for which we economically hedge the foreign currency exposure. 
  167



Table of Contents
Charges that relate to “Realized investment gains (losses), net” are also excluded
from adjusted operating income. Related charges were net negative adjustments of $1,836 million and $178 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The $1,836 million in 2011 was primarily driven by that portion of amortization of deferred policy
acquisition and other costs relating to the net gain (loss) on embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. The $178 million in 2010 was primarily driven by payments associated with the market
value adjustment features related to certain variable annuity products we sell.    During 2011, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $558 million in earnings, compared to other-than-temporary impairments of $672 million recorded in earnings in 2010. The following tables set
forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings attributable to the Financial Services Businesses by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. 
 












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings—Financial Services Businesses(1)
  



  




 Public fixed maturity securities
  
$
314
  
  
$
422
  

 Private fixed maturity securities
  
 
117
  
  
 
142
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturity securities
  
 
431
  
  
 
564
  

 Equity securities
  
 
94
  
  
 
78
  

 Other invested assets(2)
  
 
33
  
  
 
30
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
558
  
  
$
672
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 


(2)
 
Includes other-than-temporary impairments relating to investments in joint ventures and partnerships and real estate investments. 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

  
Asset-Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub-Prime Mortgages
 
  
All Other FixedMaturitySecurities
 
  
Total FixedMaturitySecurities
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings—Financial Services
Businesses(1)
  



  



  




 Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2)
  
$
106
  
  
$
117
  
  
$
223
  

 Due to other accounting guidelines(3)
  
 
12
  
  
 
196
  
  
 
208
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
118
  
  
$
313
  
  
$
431
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

  
Asset-Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub-Prime Mortgages
 
  
All Other FixedMaturitySecurities
 
  
Total FixedMaturitySecurities
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings—Financial Services
Businesses(1)
  



  



  




 Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2)
  
$
140
  
  
$
185
  
  
$
325
  

 Due to other accounting guidelines(3)
  
 
69
  
  
 
170
  
  
 
239
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
209
  
  
$
355
  
  
$
564
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairment recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value of
the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 


(2)
 
Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the
contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the
effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. 


(3)
 
Primarily represents circumstances where securities with foreign currency translation losses approach maturity or where we intend to sell the security or more likely
than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. 
  168



Table of Contents
Fixed maturity other-than-temporary impairments in 2011 were concentrated in asset-backed
securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, Japanese commercial mortgage-backed securities, and the retail and wholesale, services, and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities. The 2011 other-than-temporary impairments were primarily
related to securities with unrealized foreign currency translation losses that are approaching maturity or related to securities with liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective
issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Our Japanese insurance operations hold foreign currency-denominated investments which in some cases, due primarily to the
strengthening of the yen, are currently in an unrealized loss position. As they approach maturity and remain in an unrealized loss position, it becomes less likely that the exchange rates will recover and more likely that losses will be realized
upon maturity and therefore we record an other-than-temporary impairment. During 2011, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $184 million in earnings related to securities with an unrealized foreign currency translation loss that are
approaching maturity. As of December 31, 2011, gross unrealized losses related to those securities maturing between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2014 are $625 million. Based on December 31, 2011 fair values, absent a change
in currency rates, impairments of approximately $191 million would be recorded in earnings in 2012 and approximately $142 million in 2013 on these securities. Fixed maturity other-than-temporary impairments in 2010 were concentrated in asset-backed
securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, Japanese commercial mortgage-backed securities, and the services, manufacturing, and finance sectors of our corporate securities. The 2010 other-than-temporary impairments were primarily driven by
asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, the impact of the rising forward LIBOR curve and the intent to sell securities. Additionally, other-than-temporary
impairments were driven by Japanese commercial mortgage-backed securities that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, and foreign currency translation losses related to foreign denominated securities that are approaching
maturity.    Equity security other-than-temporary
impairments in 2011 and 2010 were primarily driven by circumstances where the decline in value was maintained for one year or greater or where we intend to sell the security and were primarily in our Japanese insurance operations. 
  Closed Block Business 
  For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment gains
in 2011 were $845 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $794 million in 2010.    Net realized gains on fixed maturity securities were $355 million in 2011, compared to net realized gains of $117 million in 2010, as set forth in the following table: 
 












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net—Fixed Maturity Securities—Closed Block Business
  



 




 Gross realized investment gains:
  



 




 Gross gains on sales and maturities(1)
  
$
516
  
 
$
273
  

 Private bond prepayment premiums
  
 
21
  
 
 
24
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross realized investment gains
  
 
537
  
 
 
297
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross realized investment losses:
  



 




 Net other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings(2)
  
 
(104
) 
 
 
(168
) 

 Gross losses on sales and maturities(1)
  
 
(75
) 
 
 
(10
) 

 Credit related losses on sales
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross realized investment losses
  
 
(182
) 
 
 
(180
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net—Fixed Maturity Securities
  
$
355
  
 
$
117
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities—Fixed Maturity Securities(1)
  
$
441
  
 
$
263
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Amounts exclude prepayment premiums, other-than-temporary impairments, and credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio
management objectives. 


(2)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 
  169



Table of Contents
Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities were $441 million in
2011 and $263 million in 2010. See below for additional information regarding the other-than-temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2011 and 2010. 
  Net realized gains on equity securities were $265 million in
2011, which included net trading gains on sales of equity securities of $283 million, partially offset by other-than-temporary impairments of $18 million. Net realized gains on equity securities were $174 million in 2010, which included net trading
gains on sales of equity securities of $208 million, partially offset by other-than-temporary impairments of $34 million. See below for additional information regarding the other-than-temporary impairments of equity securities in 2011 and
2010.   Net realized gains on commercial mortgage
and other loans in 2011 were $33 million related to a net decrease in the loan loss reserve of $42 million, partially offset by net realized losses on related foreclosures. Net realized gains on commercial mortgage and other loans in 2010 were $18
million related to a net decrease in the loan loss reserve of $22 million, partially offset by net realized losses on related foreclosures. For additional information regarding our loan loss reserves see “—General Account
Investments—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality.”  
Net realized gains on derivatives were $199 million in 2011 compared to net realized gains of $489 million in 2010. The net derivative
gains in 2011 primarily reflect net gains of $135 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration as interest rates declined, and $53 million on “to be announced” (“TBA”) forward contracts as interest rates declined.
Also, contributing to these gains are net derivative gains of $23 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments as the U.S. dollar strengthened against the euro. Partially offsetting these gains were net derivative
losses of $11 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally-managed investments in the European market. Derivative gains in 2010 primarily reflect net mark-to-market gains of $404 million on interest rate derivatives used to
manage duration as interest rates declined and net derivative gains of $74 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Also, contributing to the net derivative gains in 2010 were net realized gains of $17 million
on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally-managed investments in the European market.   
During 2011, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $127 million in earnings, compared to other-than-temporary impairments of
$208 million recorded in earnings in 2010. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings attributable to the Closed Block Business by asset type, and for fixed
maturity securities, by reason.   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings—Closed Block Business(1)
  



  




 Public fixed maturity securities
  
$
90
  
  
$
158
  

 Private fixed maturity securities
  
 
14
  
  
 
10
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturity securities
  
 
104
  
  
 
168
  

 Equity securities
  
 
18
  
  
 
34
  

 Other invested assets(2)
  
 
5
  
  
 
6
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
127
  
  
$
208
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 


(2)
 
Includes other-than-temporary impairments relating to investments in joint ventures and partnerships. 
  170



Table of Contents
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

  
Asset-Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub-Prime Mortgages
 
  
All Other FixedMaturitySecurities
 
  
Total FixedMaturitySecurities
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings—Closed Block
Business(1)
  



  



  




 Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2)
  
$
61
  
  
$
36
  
  
$
97
  

 Due to other accounting guidelines(3)
  
 
6
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
67
  
  
$
37
  
  
$
104
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

  
Asset-Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub-Prime Mortgages
 
  
All Other FixedMaturitySecurities
 
  
Total FixedMaturitySecurities
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings—Closed Block
Business(1)
  



  



  




 Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2)
  
$
66
  
  
$
28
  
  
$
94
  

 Due to other accounting guidelines(3)
  
 
67
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
74
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
133
  
  
$
35
  
  
$
168
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairment recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value of
the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 


(2)
 
Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the
contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the
effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. 


(3)
 
Primarily represents circumstances where we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized
cost basis.    Fixed maturity
other-than-temporary impairments of $104 million in 2011 were concentrated in asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, and the public utilities and services sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by
liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Fixed maturity
other-than-temporary impairments in 2010 were concentrated in asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers as well as our intent to sell certain asset-backed
securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages.   
Equity security other-than-temporary impairments in 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to circumstances where the decline in value was
maintained for one year or greater. 
  171



Table of Contents
2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison    Financial Services Businesses 
  The Financial Services Businesses’ net realized
investment gains in 2010 were $256 million, compared to net realized investment losses of $1,612 million in 2009.   
Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $361 million in 2010, compared to net realized losses of $823 million in 2009, as
set forth in the following table:   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net—Fixed Maturity Securities—Financial Services Businesses
  



 




 Gross realized investment gains:
  



 




 Gross gains on sales and maturities(1)
  
$
380
  
 
$
788
  

 Private bond prepayment premiums
  
 
37
  
 
 
19
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross realized investment gains
  
 
417
  
 
 
807
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross realized investment losses:
  



 




 Net other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings(2)
  
 
(564
) 
 
 
(1,174
) 

 Gross losses on sales and maturities(1)
  
 
(173
) 
 
 
(319
) 

 Credit related losses on sales
  
 
(41
) 
 
 
(137
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross realized investment losses
  
 
(778
) 
 
 
(1,630
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net—Fixed Maturity Securities
  
$
(361
) 
 
$
(823
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities—Fixed Maturity Securities(1)
  
$
207
  
 
$
469
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Amounts exclude prepayment premiums, other-than-temporary impairments, and credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio
management objectives. 


(2)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment.   
Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $207 million in 2010 were primarily due to sales within our
Retirement and Individual Annuities segments. Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $469 million in 2009 were primarily due to sales of government bonds in our International Insurance business and sales within our
Individual Annuities segment. Sales of fixed maturity securities in our Individual Annuities segment were primarily due to transfers of investments out of our general account and into separate accounts relating to an automatic rebalancing element
embedded in the living benefit features of some of our variable annuity products. See below for additional information regarding the other-than-temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2010 and 2009.
  Net realized gains on equity securities were $11 million in
2010, of which net trading gains on sales of equity securities were $89 million, partially offset by other-than-temporary impairments of $78 million. Net trading gains in 2010 were primarily due to private equity sales within our Corporate and Other
business and sales within our International Insurance business. Net realized losses on equity securities were $402 million in 2009, of which other-than-temporary impairments were $389 million and net trading losses on sales of equity securities were
$13 million. Net trading losses in 2009 were primarily due to sales within our International Insurance business. See below for additional information regarding the other-than-temporary impairments of equity securities in 2010 and 2009.
  Net realized gains on commercial mortgage and other loans in
2010 were $35 million and primarily related to a net decrease in the loan loss reserves of $103 million and mark-to-market net gains on our interim loan portfolio of $17 million. These net gains were partially offset by net realized losses on loan
modifications, payoffs, and foreclosures within our Asset Management business. Net losses on commercial mortgage and other loans in 2009 were $517 million primarily related to a net increase in the loan loss reserve of $317 million and
mark-to-market losses on mortgage loans within our Asset Management business. For additional information regarding our commercial mortgage and other loan loss reserves see “—General Account Investments—Commercial Mortgage and Other
Loans—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality.”
  172



Table of Contents
Net realized gains on derivatives were $601 million in 2010, compared to net realized gains
of $171 million in 2009. The net derivative gains in 2010 primarily reflect net gains of $521 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration as interest rates declined during 2010, and net gains of $325 million primarily related to
embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. See “—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management
Division—Individual Annuities” for additional information. Also contributing to these gains are net derivative gains of $99 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments and net gains of $43 million on
embedded derivatives associated with certain externally-managed investments in the European market. Partially offsetting these gains were net derivative losses of $319 million on foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge the future income of
non-U.S. businesses primarily in Japan and net losses of $75 million on credit derivatives as credit spreads tightened. The net derivative gains in 2009 primarily reflect net gains of $376 million on embedded derivatives and related hedge positions
associated with certain variable annuity contracts. Also contributing to the net derivative gains in 2009 were net gains of $196 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally-managed investments in the European market and net
gains of $87 million on mark-to-market adjustments from credit derivatives. Partially offsetting these gains were net mark-to-market losses of $376 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration and net losses of $121 million on
currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments.    Net realized losses on other investments were $30 million in 2010, which reflected $30 million of other other-than-temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships and real estate investments. Net
realized losses on other investments were $41 million in 2009, which included $48 million of other-than-temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships and losses on investment real estate in our asset management operations. 
  During 2010 we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of
$672 million in earnings, compared to total other-than-temporary impairments of $1,611 million recorded in earnings in 2009. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in
earnings attributable to the Financial Services Businesses by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason.   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings—Financial Services Businesses(1)
  



  




 Public fixed maturity securities
  
$
422
  
  
$
1,022
  

 Private fixed maturity securities
  
 
142
  
  
 
152
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturity securities
  
 
564
  
  
 
1,174
  

 Equity securities
  
 
78
  
  
 
389
  

 Other invested assets(2)
  
 
30
  
  
 
48
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
672
  
  
$
1,611
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 


(2)
 
Includes other-than-temporary impairments relating to investments in joint ventures and partnerships and real estate investments. 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

  
Asset-Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub-Prime Mortgages
 
  
All Other FixedMaturitySecurities
 
  
Total FixedMaturitySecurities
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings—Financial Services
Businesses(1)
  



  



  




 Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2)
  
$
140
  
  
$
185
  
  
$
325
  

 Due to other accounting guidelines(3)
  
 
69
  
  
 
170
  
  
 
239
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
209
  
  
$
355
  
  
$
564
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  173



Table of Contents
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

  
Asset-Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub-Prime Mortgages
 
  
All Other FixedMaturitySecurities
 
  
Total FixedMaturitySecurities
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings—Financial Services
Businesses(1)
  



  



  




 Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2)
  
$
653
  
  
$
321
  
  
$
974
  

 Due to other accounting guidelines(3)
  
 
15
  
  
 
185
  
  
 
200
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
668
  
  
$
506
  
  
$
1,174
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 


(2)
 
Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the
contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the
effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. 


(3)
 
Primarily represents circumstances where we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized
cost basis.    Fixed maturity
other-than-temporary impairments in 2010 were concentrated in asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, Japanese commercial mortgage-backed securities, and the services, manufacturing, and finance sectors of our corporate
securities. These other-than-temporary impairments were primarily driven by asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, the impact of the rising forward LIBOR
curve and the intent to sell securities. Additionally, other-than-temporary impairments were driven by Japanese commercial mortgage-backed securities that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, and foreign currency
translation losses related to foreign denominated securities that are approaching maturity. Our Japanese insurance operations hold U.S. dollar-denominated investments which in some cases, due primarily to the strengthening of the yen, are currently
in an unrealized loss position. As they approach maturity and remain in an unrealized loss position, it becomes less likely that the exchange rates will recover and more likely that losses will be realized upon maturity and therefore we record an
other-than-temporary impairment. During 2010, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $143 million in earnings related to securities with an unrealized foreign currency translation loss that are approaching maturity. As of December 31,
2010, gross unrealized losses related to those securities maturing between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2012 are $201 million. Based on December 31, 2010 fair values, absent a change in currency rates, impairments of approximately
$169 million would be recorded in earnings in 2011. Fixed maturity other-than-temporary impairments in 2009 were concentrated in asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, and the manufacturing and services sectors of our
corporate securities, and were primarily driven by liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual
cash flows related to the investment.    Equity
security other-than-temporary impairments in 2010 and 2009 were primarily driven by circumstances where the decline in value was maintained for one year or greater or where we intend to sell the security. Equity security other-than-temporary
impairments in 2010 were primarily in our Japanese insurance operations equity portfolios. Equity security other-than-temporary impairments in 2009 were primarily driven by declines in value of fund shares representing our interest in high yield
bond funds of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance and circumstances where we lack the ability or intent to retain the security to recovery.    Closed Block Business 
  For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment gains
in 2010 were $794 million, compared to net realized investment losses of $1,285 million in 2009. 
  174



Table of Contents
Net realized gains on fixed maturity securities were $117 million in 2010, compared to net
realized losses of $381 million in 2009, as set forth in the following table:   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net—Fixed Maturity Securities—Closed Block Business
  



 




 Gross realized investment gains:
  



 




 Gross gains on sales and maturities(1)
  
$
273
  
 
$
199
  

 Private bond prepayment premiums
  
 
24
  
 
 
19
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross realized investment gains
  
 
297
  
 
 
218
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross realized investment losses:
  



 




 Net other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings(2)
  
 
(168
) 
 
 
(520
) 

 Gross losses on sales and maturities(1)
  
 
(10
) 
 
 
(72
) 

 Credit related losses on sales
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total gross realized investment losses
  
 
(180
) 
 
 
(599
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net—Fixed Maturity Securities
  
$
117
  
 
$
(381
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities—Fixed Maturity Securities(1)
  
$
263
  
 
$
127
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Amounts exclude prepayment premiums, other-than-temporary impairments, and credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio
management objectives. 


(2)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment.   
Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities were $263 million in 2010. See below for additional information
regarding the other-than-temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2010 and 2009.    Net realized gains on equity securities were $174 million in 2010. Net trading gains on sales of equity securities were $208 million, partially offset by other-than-temporary impairments of $34 million.
Net realized losses on equity securities were $473 million in 2009, of which other-than-temporary impairments were $613 million, partially offset by net trading gains on sales of equity securities of $140 million. Net trading gains reflect improved
equity markets throughout 2010 and 2009 coupled with the current equity trading strategy which produced gains as the years progressed. See below for additional information regarding the other-than-temporary impairments of equity securities in 2010
and 2009.    Net realized gains on commercial
mortgage and other loans in 2010 were $18 million related to a net decrease in the loan loss reserve of $22 million, partially offset by net realized losses. Net realized losses on commercial mortgage and other loans in 2009 were $85 million related
to a net increase in the loan loss reserve of $82 million and other net realized losses. For additional information regarding our loan loss reserves see “—General Account Investments—Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans—Commercial
Mortgage and Other Loan Quality.”    Net
realized gains on derivatives were $489 million in 2010, compared to net realized losses of $298 million in 2009. Derivative gains in 2010 primarily reflect net mark-to-market gains of $404 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage
duration as interest rates declined and net derivative gains of $74 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments as the US dollar strengthened versus the euro. Also, contributing to the net derivative gains were net
realized gains of $17 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally-managed investments in the European market. Derivative losses in 2009 primarily reflect net mark-to-market losses of $218 million on interest rate derivatives
used to manage the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio and net losses of $149 million related to currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Partially offsetting these losses were net gains of $52 million on
embedded derivatives associated with certain externally-managed investments in the European market. 
  175



Table of Contents
Net realized losses on other investments were $4 million in 2010, which included $6 million
of other-than-temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships investments. Net realized losses on other investments were $48 million in 2009 of which $51 million was related to other-than-temporary impairments on joint ventures and
partnerships investments.    During 2010 we recorded
other-than-temporary impairments of $208 million in earnings, compared to other-than-temporary impairments of $1,184 million recorded in earnings in 2009. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of
other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings attributable to the Closed Block Business by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason.   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings—Closed Block Business(1)
  



  




 Public fixed maturity securities
  
$
158
  
  
$
465
  

 Private fixed maturity securities
  
 
10
  
  
 
55
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturity securities
  
 
168
  
  
 
520
  

 Equity securities
  
 
34
  
  
 
613
  

 Other invested assets(2)
  
 
6
  
  
 
51
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
208
  
  
$
1,184
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 


(2)
 
Includes other-than-temporary impairments relating to investments in joint ventures and partnerships. 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

  
Asset-Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub-Prime Mortgages
 
  
All Other FixedMaturitySecurities
 
  
Total FixedMaturitySecurities
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings—Closed Block
Business(1)
  



  



  




 Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2)
  
$
66
  
  
$
28
  
  
$
94
  

 Due to other accounting guidelines(3)
  
 
67
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
74
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
133
  
  
$
35
  
  
$
168
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

  
Asset-Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub-Prime Mortgages
 
  
All Other FixedMaturitySecurities
 
  
Total FixedMaturitySecurities
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings—Closed Block
Business(1)
  



  



  




 Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2)
  
$
319
  
  
$
189
  
  
$
508
  

 Due to other accounting guidelines(3)
  
 
3
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
12
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
322
  
  
$
198
  
  
$
520
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 


(2)
 
Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the
contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the
effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. 


(3)
 
Primarily represents circumstances where we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized
cost basis.    Fixed maturity
other-than-temporary impairments in 2010 were concentrated in asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers as well as

  176



Table of Contents

our intent to sell certain asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Fixed maturity other-than-temporary impairments in 2009 were concentrated in asset-backed securities
collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, and the manufacturing and services sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective
issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment.   
Equity security other-than-temporary impairments in 2010 and 2009 were primarily due to circumstances where the decline in value was
maintained for one year or greater.    General Account
Investments    We maintain diversified
investment portfolios in our insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general liabilities. Our general account does not include:
(1) assets of our trading and banking operations; (2) assets of our asset management operations, including assets managed for third parties; and (3) those assets classified as “Separate account assets” on our balance sheet.
   The general account portfolio is managed pursuant
to the distinct objectives and investment policy statements of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The primary investment objectives of the Financial Services Businesses include: 
 


 
•
 
 matching the liability characteristics of the major products and other obligations of the Company; 
 


 
•
 
 maximizing the portfolio book yield within risk constraints over time; and   


 
•
 
 for certain portfolios, maximizing total return, including both investment yield and capital gains, and preserving principal, within risk constraints,
while matching the liability characteristics of their major products.    Our strategies for maximizing the portfolio book yield of the Financial Services Businesses over time include: (1) the investment of proceeds from investment sales, repayments and prepayments, and
operating cash flows, into investments with competitive yields, and (2) where appropriate, the sale of the portfolio’s lower yielding investments, either to meet various cash flow needs or to manage the portfolio’s duration, credit,
currency and other risk constraints, all while minimizing the amount of taxes on realized capital gains.   
The primary investment objectives of the Closed Block Business include:   


 
•
 
 providing for the reasonable dividend expectations of the participating policyholders within the Closed Block Business and the Class B shareholders;
and   


 
•
 
 maximizing total return, including both investment yield and capital gains, and preserving principal, within risk constraints, while matching the
liability characteristics of the major products in the Closed Block Business.    While we continue to look to maximize book yield and match the liability characteristics of our major products, our portfolio management approach also reflects a consideration of the capital and tax
implications of portfolio activity, our assertions regarding our ability and intent to hold equity securities to recovery, and our lack of any intention or requirement to sell debt securities before anticipated recovery. In consideration of the
potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we temporarily curtailed the active trading policy previously employed in the Closed Block Business and certain portfolios of the Financial Services Businesses.
Starting in the second quarter of 2009, we resumed a more restricted trading program in these portfolios, and continue to evaluate trading strategies for these portfolios. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other-than-temporary
impairments, including our assertions regarding our ability and intent to hold equity securities to recovery and any intention or requirement to sell debt securities before anticipated recovery, see “—Fixed Maturity
Securities—Other-than-Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities” and “—Equity Securities—Other-than-Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities,” below. 
  177



Table of Contents
Management of Investments    We design asset mix strategies and derivative strategies for our general account to match the characteristics
of our products and other obligations and seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. In
certain markets, primarily outside the U.S., capital market limitations hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities. We achieve income objectives through asset/liability management, strategic
and tactical asset allocations and derivative strategies within a disciplined risk management framework. Derivative strategies are employed within our risk management framework to help manage duration gaps, currency, and other risks between assets
and liabilities. For a discussion of our risk management process see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments, and—Other Than Trading Activities—Insurance
and Annuity Products Asset/Liability Management.”    Our asset allocation also reflects our desire for broad diversification across asset classes, sectors and issuers. The Asset Management segment manages virtually all of our investments, other than those
managed by our International Insurance segment, under the direction and oversight of the Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups. Our International Insurance segment manages the majority of its investments locally, within enterprise
risk constraints, in most cases using our international and domestic asset management capabilities.    The Investment Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our proprietary investments. It also reviews performance and risk positions periodically. Our portfolio management groups work with our Risk
Management group to develop the investment policies for the general account assets of our domestic and international insurance subsidiaries, oversee the investment process for our general account and have the authority to initiate tactical shifts
within exposure ranges approved annually by the Investment Committee.    The portfolio management groups, which are integrated within our businesses, work closely with Risk Management to ensure that the specific characteristics of our products are incorporated into their
processes and to develop investment objectives, including performance factors and measures and asset allocation ranges. We adjust this dynamic process as products change, as customer behavior changes and as changes in the market environment occur.
We develop asset strategies for specific classes of product liabilities and attributed or accumulated surplus, each with distinct risk characteristics. Most of our products can be categorized into the following three classes: 
 


 
•
 
 interest-crediting products for which the rates credited to customers are periodically adjusted to reflect market and competitive forces and actual
investment experience, such as fixed annuities and universal life insurance;   


 
•
 
 participating individual and experience-rated group products in which customers participate in actual investment and business results through annual
dividends, interest or return of premium; and   


 
•
 
 guaranteed products for which there are price or rate guarantees for the life of the contract, such as traditional whole life and endowment products,
guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements.    We determine a target asset mix for each product class, which we reflect in our investment policies. Our asset/liability management process has permitted us to manage interest-sensitive products
successfully through several market cycles.    Portfolio
Composition    Our investment portfolio
consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and other invested assets. The composition of our general account reflects, within the discipline provided by our risk management
approach, our need for competitive results and the selection of diverse investment alternatives available primarily through our Asset Management segment. The size of our portfolio enables us to invest in asset classes that may be unavailable to the
typical investor.    On February 1, 2011,
Prudential Financial completed the acquisition from AIG of the Star and Edison Businesses. Our Financial Services Businesses’ general account portfolio as of December 31, 2011 includes

  178



Table of Contents

$44,843 million of invested assets at carrying value of the Star and Edison Businesses, which consists of $40,257 million of fixed maturity securities, $1,526 million of other long-term
investments, $938 million of equity securities, $790 million of commercial mortgage and other loans, $570 million of policy loans, $542 million of trading account assets, primarily supporting insurance liabilities, and $220 million of short-term
investments. Since completing the acquisition, we have been repositioning the portfolios for the Star and Edison Businesses in order to improve the interest rate exposure profile relative to liabilities, diversify credit and risk asset exposures,
and reduce unhedged currency positions. We substantially completed that repositioning by year-end 2011 and, as of January 1, 2012, the Star and Edison portfolios have been integrated with the Gibraltar portfolio. 
  The following tables set forth the composition of the
investments of our general account apportioned between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated.   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
  
Closed BlockBusiness
 
  
Total
 
  
% of Total
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Fixed Maturities:
  



  



  



  




 Public, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
$
179,086
  
  
$
30,211
  
  
$
209,297
  
  
 
60.6
% 

 Public, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost
  
 
3,743
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
3,743
  
  
 
1.1
  

 Private, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
26,938
  
  
 
16,305
  
  
 
43,243
  
  
 
12.5
  

 Private, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost
  
 
1,364
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,364
  
  
 
0.4
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value
  
 
19,481
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
19,481
  
  
 
5.6
  

 Other trading account assets, at fair value
  
 
2,104
  
  
 
317
  
  
 
2,421
  
  
 
0.7
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
4,401
  
  
 
3,122
  
  
 
7,523
  
  
 
2.2
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value
  
 
25,073
  
  
 
9,040
  
  
 
34,113
  
  
 
9.9
  

 Policy loans, at outstanding balance
  
 
6,263
  
  
 
5,296
  
  
 
11,559
  
  
 
3.3
  

 Other long-term investments(1)
  
 
4,481
  
  
 
1,990
  
  
 
6,471
  
  
 
1.9
  

 Short-term investments(2)
  
 
5,609
  
  
 
528
  
  
 
6,137
  
  
 
1.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total general account investments
  
 
278,543
  
  
 
66,809
  
  
 
345,352
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Invested assets of other entities and operations(3)
  
 
10,895
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
10,895
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total investments
  
$
289,438
  
  
$
66,809
  
  
$
356,247
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  







 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
  
Closed BlockBusiness
 
  
Total
 
  
% of Total
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Fixed Maturities:
  



  



  



  




 Public, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
$
124,577
  
  
$
30,499
  
  
$
155,076
  
  
 
56.3
% 

 Public, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost
  
 
3,940
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
3,940
  
  
 
1.4
  

 Private, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
23,108
  
  
 
14,678
  
  
 
37,786
  
  
 
13.7
  

 Private, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost
  
 
1,286
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,286
  
  
 
0.5
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value
  
 
17,771
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
17,771
  
  
 
6.5
  

 Other trading account assets, at fair value
  
 
1,220
  
  
 
156
  
  
 
1,376
  
  
 
0.5
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
4,135
  
  
 
3,593
  
  
 
7,728
  
  
 
2.8
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value
  
 
21,901
  
  
 
8,507
  
  
 
30,408
  
  
 
11.0
  

 Policy loans, at outstanding balance
  
 
5,290
  
  
 
5,377
  
  
 
10,667
  
  
 
3.9
  

 Other long-term investments(1)
  
 
2,988
  
  
 
1,582
  
  
 
4,570
  
  
 
1.6
  

 Short-term investments(2)
  
 
3,698
  
  
 
1,164
  
  
 
4,862
  
  
 
1.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total general account investments
  
 
209,914
  
  
 
65,556
  
  
 
275,470
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Invested assets of other entities and operations(3)
  
 
8,442
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
8,442
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total investments
  
$
218,356
  
  
$
65,556
  
  
$
283,912
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  


(1)
 
Other long-term investments consist of real estate and non-real estate-related investments in joint ventures and partnerships, investment real estate held through
direct ownership and other miscellaneous investments. For additional information regarding these investments, see “—Other Long-Term Investments” below. 
  179



Table of Contents


(2)
 
Short-term investments have virtually no sub-prime exposure. 


(3)
 
Includes invested assets of trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services and asset management operations. Excludes assets of our asset management
operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as “Separate account assets” on our balance sheet. For additional information regarding these investments, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and
Operations” below.    As of
December 31, 2011, the average duration of our general account investment portfolio attributable to the domestic Financial Services Businesses, including the impact of derivatives, is between 4 and 5 years. The general account investments
attributable to the Financial Services Businesses increased in 2011 primarily due to the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses, portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income, and a net increase in fair value driven by
a decrease in interest rates. The general account investments attributable to the Closed Block Business increased in 2011 primarily due to portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income and an increase in fair value driven by
a decrease in interest rates, partially offset by net operating outflows. For information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our fixed maturities, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  We have substantial insurance operations in Japan, with 50%
and 38% of our Financial Services Businesses’ general account investments relating to our Japanese insurance operations as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The following table sets forth the composition of the
investments of our Japanese insurance operations’ general account as of the dates indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed Maturities:
  



  




 Public, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
$
111,857
  
  
$
60,115
  

 Public, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost
  
 
3,743
  
  
 
3,940
  

 Private, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
5,020
  
  
 
3,304
  

 Private, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost
  
 
1,364
  
  
 
1,286
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value
  
 
1,732
  
  
 
1,518
  

 Other trading account assets, at fair value
  
 
1,496
  
  
 
702
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
1,932
  
  
 
1,612
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value
  
 
5,672
  
  
 
4,202
  

 Policy loans, at outstanding balance
  
 
2,873
  
  
 
2,083
  

 Other long-term investments(1)
  
 
2,892
  
  
 
1,320
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
702
  
  
 
211
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Japanese general account investments(2)
  
$
139,283
  
  
$
80,293
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Other long-term investments consist of real estate and non-real estate-related investments in joint ventures and partnerships, investment real estate held through
direct ownership, derivatives, and other miscellaneous investments. 


(2)
 
Excludes assets classified as “Separate accounts assets” on our balance sheet.    As of December 31, 2011, the average duration of our general account investment portfolio related to our
Japanese insurance operations, including the impact of derivatives, was approximately 10 years. The increase in general account investments related to our Japanese insurance operations in 2011 was primarily attributable to the impact of the
acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses, gains on foreign currency exchange rates on yen assets, portfolio growth as a result of business inflows and the impact of declining interest rates, partially offset by yen strengthening on non-yen
assets.    Our Japanese insurance operations use the
yen as their functional currency, as it is the currency in which they conduct the majority of their operations. Although the majority of the Japanese general account is invested in yen-denominated investments, our Japanese insurance operations also
hold significant investments denominated in U.S. and Australian dollars.    As of December 31, 2011, our Japanese insurance operations had $38.4 billion, at fair value, of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including $4.4 billion that were hedged to yen through third
party derivative contracts and $25.9 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2010, our Japanese insurance operations had $18.9 billion, at fair value, of investments denominated in U.S. dollars,

  180



Table of Contents

including $0.7 billion that were hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts and $10.7 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. The $19.5 billion increase of U.S.
dollar investments at fair value from December 31, 2010 is primarily driven by $14.6 billion from the Star and Edison Businesses’ U.S. dollar-denominated assets supporting U.S. dollar liabilities. 
  For additional information regarding U.S. dollar investments
held in our Japanese insurance operations, see “—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—International Insurance Division.” 
  As of December 31, 2011, our Japanese insurance
operations had $6.4 billion, at fair value, of investments denominated in Australian dollars that support liabilities denominated in Australian dollars. As of December 31, 2010, our Japanese insurance operations had $1.8 billion, at fair value,
of investments denominated in Australian dollars that support liabilities denominated in Australian dollars. The $4.6 billion increase of Australian dollar investments at fair value from December 31, 2010 is primarily driven by $2.6 billion
from the Star and Edison Businesses’ Australian dollar-denominated assets supporting Australian dollar liabilities.   
Eurozone Exposure   
Our investment portfolio includes direct investment exposure to the Eurozone region. We define this region as consisting of those
countries within the European Union that have adopted the euro as their sole legal currency. The Eurozone region currently consists of seventeen countries, including Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain. Included in this region are peripheral countries, which we currently define as consisting of Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain. Specific country exposure is
determined based on the issuer’s country of incorporation.    The following tables set forth the composition of our gross direct exposure to the Eurozone region, by country of incorporation, attributable to our general account, as of December 31, 2011.
   Eurozone Gross Direct Exposure—Financial Services
Businesses   




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Amortized Cost
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
 
 

 Country
 
Sovereigns(6)
 
 
FinancialInstitutions(7)
 
 
AllOtherExposure
 
 
TotalAmortizedCost
 
 
Sovereigns(6)
 
 
FinancialInstitutions(7)
 
 
AllOtherExposure
 
 
TotalFairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Non-peripheral countries:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 France
 
$
555
  
 
$
692
  
 
$
1,959
  
 
$
3,206
  
 
$
542
  
 
$
616
  
 
$
2,060
  
 
$
3,218
  

 Netherlands
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,191
  
 
 
1,727
  
 
 
2,918
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,180
  
 
 
1,725
  
 
 
2,905
  

 Germany
 
 
125
  
 
 
924
  
 
 
786
  
 
 
1,835
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
879
  
 
 
788
  
 
 
1,792
  

 Luxembourg
 
 
0
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
1,388
  
 
 
1,545
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
154
  
 
 
1,366
  
 
 
1,520
  

 Other non-peripheral(1)
 
 
32
  
 
 
269
  
 
 
399
  
 
 
700
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
265
  
 
 
404
  
 
 
700
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-peripheral exposure
 
 
712
  
 
 
3,233
  
 
 
6,259
  
 
 
10,204
  
 
 
698
  
 
 
3,094
  
 
 
6,343
  
 
 
10,135
  

 Peripheral countries:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Italy(2)
 
 
478
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
171
  
 
 
699
  
 
 
414
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
610
  

 Ireland
 
 
0
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
521
  
 
 
598
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
530
  
 
 
605
  

 Spain
 
 
49
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
342
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
301
  

 Other peripheral(3)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
94
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total peripheral exposure
 
 
527
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
1,040
  
 
 
1,728
  
 
 
459
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
1,003
  
 
 
1,610
  

 International agencies(4)
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,341
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,341
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,315
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,315
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total exposure(5)
 
$
1,239
  
 
$
4,735
  
 
$
7,299
  
 
$
13,273
  
 
$
1,157
  
 
$
4,557
  
 
$
7,346
  
 
$
13,060
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  181



Table of Contents
Eurozone Gross Direct Exposure—Closed Block Business 
 




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Amortized Cost
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
 
 

 Country
 
Sovereigns(6)
 
 
FinancialInstitutions(7)

 
 
AllOtherExposure
 
 
TotalAmortizedCost
 
 
Sovereigns(6)
 
 
FinancialInstitutions(7)
 
 
AllOtherExposure
 
 
TotalFairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Non-peripheral countries:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 France
 
$
52
  
 
$
110
  
 
$
766
  
 
$
928
  
 
$
53
  
 
$
103
  
 
$
840
  
 
$
996
  

 Netherlands
 
 
5
  
 
 
293
  
 
 
622
  
 
 
920
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
289
  
 
 
702
  
 
 
996
  

 Germany
 
 
8
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
648
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
646
  
 
 
669
  

 Luxembourg
 
 
4
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
488
  
 
 
527
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
515
  
 
 
556
  

 Other non-peripheral(1)
 
 
2
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
197
  
 
 
331
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
205
  
 
 
335
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-peripheral exposure
 
 
71
  
 
 
587
  
 
 
2,696
  
 
 
3,354
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
2,908
  
 
 
3,552
  

 Peripheral countries:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Italy
 
 
6
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
89
  

 Ireland
 
 
0
  
 
 
69
  
 
 
295
  
 
 
364
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
323
  
 
 
377
  

 Spain
 
 
0
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
113
  

 Other peripheral(3)
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
23
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total peripheral exposure
 
 
6
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
468
  
 
 
607
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
487
  
 
 
602
  

 International agencies(4)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total exposure(5)
 
$
77
  
 
$
720
  
 
$
3,164
  
 
$
3,961
  
 
$
78
  
 
$
681
  
 
$
3,395
  
 
$
4,154
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Other non-peripheral countries include Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Malta, Slovakia, and Slovenia. 


(2)
 
Principally represents Italian government securities owned by our Italian insurance operations. 


(3)
 
Other peripheral countries include Greece and Portugal. 


(4)
 
International agencies include agencies such as Eurofima, European Investment Bank, Council of Europe Development, and Nordic Investment Bank, where a single country of
incorporation could not be determined. 


(5)
 
For the Financial Services Businesses, of the $13,273 million of amortized cost represented above, 86% is related to fixed maturities, 7% is related to trading account
assets supporting insurance liabilities, and the remaining 7% is related to all other asset types. For the Closed Block Business, of the $3,961 million of amortized cost represented above, 93% is related to fixed maturities, and the remaining 7% is
related to all other asset types. 


(6)
 
Sovereigns include local governments. 


(7)
 
Financial institutions include banking, brokerage, non-captive consumer and diversified finance, health insurance, life insurance, property and casualty insurance,
other finance and real estate investment trusts. 
  182



Table of Contents
Investment Results 
  The following tables set forth the income yield and
investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) and non-hedge accounting derivative results, for each major investment category of our general account for the periods indicated. 
 




























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Financial ServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Combined
 

 
  
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities
  
 
3.83
% 
 
$
7,063
  
 
 
5.67
% 
 
$
2,232
  
 
 
4.16
% 
 
$
9,295
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
4.23
  
 
 
776
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4.23
  
 
 
776
  

 Equity securities
  
 
5.93
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
2.75
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
4.65
  
 
 
315
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
5.62
  
 
 
1,295
  
 
 
6.47
  
 
 
553
  
 
 
5.85
  
 
 
1,848
  

 Policy loans
  
 
4.71
  
 
 
277
  
 
 
6.22
  
 
 
322
  
 
 
5.41
  
 
 
599
  

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
0.36
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
0.72
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
0.37
  
 
 
50
  

 Other investments
  
 
3.64
  
 
 
246
  
 
 
8.82
  
 
 
174
  
 
 
4.83
  
 
 
420
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Gross investment income before investment expenses
  
 
3.90
  
 
 
9,943
  
 
 
5.78
  
 
 
3,360
  
 
 
4.24
  
 
 
13,303
  

 Investment expenses
  
 
(0.11
) 
 
 
(230
) 
 
 
(0.25
) 
 
 
(146
) 
 
 
(0.14
) 
 
 
(376
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment income after investment expenses
  
 
3.79
% 
 
 
9,713
  
 
 
5.53
% 
 
 
3,214
  
 
 
4.10
% 
 
 
12,927
  


  
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Investment results of other entities and operations(2)
  



 
 
197
  
 



 
 
0
  
 



 
 
197
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Total investment income
  



 
$
9,910
  
 



 
$
3,214
  
 



 
$
13,124
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Financial ServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Combined
 

 
  
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities
  
 
4.33
% 
 
$
5,927
  
 
 
5.91
% 
 
$
2,326
  
 
 
4.69
% 
 
$
8,253
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
4.51
  
 
 
750
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4.51
  
 
 
750
  

 Equity securities
  
 
6.33
  
 
 
212
  
 
 
2.70
  
 
 
74
  
 
 
4.70
  
 
 
286
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
6.01
  
 
 
1,256
  
 
 
6.61
  
 
 
536
  
 
 
6.18
  
 
 
1,792
  

 Policy loans
  
 
5.00
  
 
 
243
  
 
 
6.38
  
 
 
334
  
 
 
5.71
  
 
 
577
  

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
0.29
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
0.56
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
0.30
  
 
 
41
  

 Other investments
  
 
4.71
  
 
 
193
  
 
 
6.66
  
 
 
115
  
 
 
5.28
  
 
 
308
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Gross investment income before investment expenses
  
 
4.34
  
 
 
8,617
  
 
 
5.88
  
 
 
3,390
  
 
 
4.69
  
 
 
12,007
  

 Investment expenses
  
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(208
) 
 
 
(0.24
) 
 
 
(143
) 
 
 
(0.15
) 
 
 
(351
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment income after investment expenses
  
 
4.21
% 
 
 
8,409
  
 
 
5.64
% 
 
 
3,247
  
 
 
4.54
% 
 
 
11,656
  


  
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Investment results of other entities and operations(2)
  



 
 
209
  
 



 
 
0
  
 



 
 
209
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Total investment income
  



 
$
8,618
  
 



 
$
3,247
  
 



 
$
11,865
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
  183



Table of Contents




























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
Financial ServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Combined
 

 
  
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities
  
 
4.54
% 
 
$
5,691
  
 
 
6.07
% 
 
$
2,382
  
 
 
4.90
% 
 
$
8,073
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
5.11
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5.11
  
 
 
743
  

 Equity securities
  
 
6.32
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
2.85
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
4.82
  
 
 
302
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
5.85
  
 
 
1,237
  
 
 
6.68
  
 
 
556
  
 
 
6.08
  
 
 
1,793
  

 Policy loans
  
 
5.19
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
6.54
  
 
 
344
  
 
 
5.93
  
 
 
569
  

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
0.52
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
3.02
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
0.68
  
 
 
97
  

 Other investments
  
 
3.16
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
(4.01
) 
 
 
(72
) 
 
 
1.06
  
 
 
66
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Gross investment income before investment expenses
  
 
4.50
  
 
 
8,325
  
 
 
5.69
  
 
 
3,318
  
 
 
4.78
  
 
 
11,643
  

 Investment expenses
  
 
(0.15
) 
 
 
(218
) 
 
 
(0.23
) 
 
 
(140
) 
 
 
(0.17
) 
 
 
(358
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment income after investment expenses
  
 
4.35
% 
 
 
8,107
  
 
 
5.46
% 
 
 
3,178
  
 
 
4.61
% 
 
 
11,285
  


  
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Investment results of other entities and operations(2)
  



 
 
112
  
 



 
 
0
  
 



 
 
112
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Total investment income
  



 
$
8,219
  
 



 
$
3,178
  
 



 
$
11,397
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are
based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for fixed maturities and short-term investments and cash equivalents are calculated net of liabilities and rebate expenses corresponding to securities lending activity.
Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets. Prior period’s yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. 


(2)
 
Includes investment income of trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services and asset management operations. 
  See below for a discussion of the change in the Financial
Services Businesses’ yields. The decrease in net investment income yield attributable to the Closed Block Business for 2011 compared to 2010, was primarily due to lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and lower
fixed income reinvestment rates.    The increase in
net investment income yield attributable to the Closed Block Business for 2010 compared to 2009, was primarily due to investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships, driven by appreciation and gains on the underlying assets, partially offset
by the impact of lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and lower fixed income reinvestment rates.   
The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) and non-hedge
accounting derivative results, for each major investment category of the Financial Services Businesses’ general account, excluding the Japanese operations’ portion of the general account which is presented separately below, for the periods
indicated.   




























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
($ in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Fixed maturities
  
 
5.46
% 
 
$
4,219
  
 
 
5.58
% 
 
$
4,194
  
 
 
5.74
% 
 
$
4,172
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
4.45
  
 
 
742
  
 
 
4.73
  
 
 
724
  
 
 
5.38
  
 
 
721
  

 Equity securities
  
 
9.04
  
 
 
167
  
 
 
9.29
  
 
 
168
  
 
 
9.84
  
 
 
167
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
6.06
  
 
 
1,083
  
 
 
6.32
  
 
 
1,081
  
 
 
6.04
  
 
 
1,070
  

 Policy loans
  
 
5.81
  
 
 
187
  
 
 
5.72
  
 
 
171
  
 
 
5.94
  
 
 
162
  

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
0.25
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
0.30
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
0.50
  
 
 
55
  

 Other investments
  
 
4.02
  
 
 
83
  
 
 
3.21
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
0.39
  
 
 
9
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Gross investment income before investment expenses
  
 
5.08
  
 
 
6,504
  
 
 
5.16
  
 
 
6,431
  
 
 
5.27
  
 
 
6,356
  

 Investment expenses
  
 
(0.11
) 
 
 
(88
) 
 
 
(0.12
) 
 
 
(102
) 
 
 
(0.15
) 
 
 
(116
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investment income after investment expenses
  
 
4.97
% 
 
 
6,416
  
 
 
5.04
% 
 
 
6,329
  
 
 
5.12
% 
 
 
6,240
  


  
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Investment results of other entities and operations(2)
  



 
 
197
  
 



 
 
209
  
 



 
 
112
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Total investment income
  



 
$
6,613
  
 



 
$
6,538
  
 



 
$
6,352
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
 Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed
maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for fixed maturities and short-term 
  184



Table of Contents


 
 
investments and cash equivalents are calculated net of liabilities and rebate expenses corresponding to securities lending activity. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those
included in invested assets. Prior period’s yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. 


(2)
 
Includes investment income of trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services and asset management operations. 
  The decrease in net investment income yield attributable to
the Financial Services Businesses’ general account, excluding the Japanese operations’ portfolio, for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily the result of lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and lower fixed
maturity reinvestment rates, partially offset by higher income from our joint venture and limited partnerships, driven by appreciation and gains on the underlying assets. 
  The decrease in net investment income yield attributable to
the Financial Services Businesses’ general account, excluding the Japanese operations’ portfolio, for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily a result of lower interest rates on floating rate investments from rate resets and lower fixed
maturity reinvestment rates, partially offset by an increase in other investment yields driven by favorable joint venture and limited partnership earnings driven by appreciation on the underlying assets. 
  The following tables set forth the income yield and
investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) and non-hedge accounting derivative results, for each major investment category of our Japanese operations’ general account for the periods indicated. 
 




























 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Yield(1)(2)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 
 
Yield(1)
 
 
Amount
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities
  
 
2.66
% 
 
$
2,844
  
 
 
2.81
% 
 
$
1,733
  
 
 
2.88
% 
 
$
1,519
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
1.99
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
1.98
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
1.98
  
 
 
22
  

 Equity securities
  
 
3.33
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
2.84
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
3.13
  
 
 
58
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
4.10
  
 
 
212
  
 
 
4.63
  
 
 
175
  
 
 
4.85
  
 
 
167
  

 Policy loans
  
 
3.37
  
 
 
90
  
 
 
3.85
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
3.91
  
 
 
63
  

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
0.62
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
0.24
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
0.62
  
 
 
11
  

 Other investments
  
 
3.48
  
 
 
163
  
 
 
6.01
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
6.26
  
 
 
129
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 Gross investment income before investment expenses
  
 
2.70
  
 
 
3,439
  
 
 
2.97
  
 
 
2,186
  
 
 
3.05
  
 
 
1,969
  

 Investment expenses
  
 
(0.11
) 
 
 
(142
) 
 
 
(0.14
) 
 
 
(106
) 
 
 
(0.15
) 
 
 
(102
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investment income
  
 
2.59
% 
 
$
3,297
  
 
 
2.83
% 
 
$
2,080
  
 
 
2.90
% 
 
$
1,867
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are
based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for fixed maturities and short-term investments and cash equivalents are calculated net of liabilities and rebate expenses corresponding to securities lending activity.
Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets. Prior period’s yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. 


(2)
 
Yields are weighted for ten months of income and assets related to the Star and Edison Businesses. 
  The decrease in yield on the Japanese insurance portfolio for
2011 compared to 2010 is primarily attributable to lower fixed maturity reinvestment rates in both the U.S. and Japan, and the impact from the acquisition of the Star and Edison portfolios.    The decrease in yield on the Japanese insurance portfolio for 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily attributable
to lower fixed maturity reinvestment rates and a lower interest rate environment both in the U.S. and Japan, as well as less favorable results in joint ventures and limited partnerships.    Both the U.S. dollar-denominated and Australian dollar-denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen
through third party derivative contracts provide a yield that is substantially higher than the yield on comparable yen-denominated fixed maturities. The average amortized cost of U.S. dollar-denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen
through third party derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, was approximately $24.2 billion and $12.3 billion, respectively. The majority of U.S. dollar-denominated fixed maturities support liabilities that are
denominated in U.S. dollars. The average amortized cost 
  185



Table of Contents

of Australian dollar-denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, was approximately $4.8
billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. The Australian dollar-denominated fixed maturities support liabilities that are denominated in Australian dollars.   
For additional information regarding U.S. dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations see, “—Results of
Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—International Insurance Division.”    Fixed Maturity Securities    Investment Mix    Our fixed maturity securities portfolio consists of publicly-traded and privately-placed debt securities across an array of industry categories. The fixed maturity securities relating to our international
insurance operations are primarily comprised of foreign government securities.    We manage our public portfolio to a risk profile directed or overseen by the Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups and to a profile that also reflects the local market environments
impacting both our domestic and international insurance portfolios. The investment objectives for fixed maturity securities are consistent with those described above. The total return that we earn on the portfolio will be reflected both as
investment income and also as realized gains or losses on investments.    We use our private placement and asset-backed portfolios to enhance the diversification and yield of our overall fixed maturity portfolio. Within our domestic portfolios, we maintain a private fixed
income portfolio that is larger than the industry average as a percentage of total fixed income holdings. Over the last several years, our investment staff has originated the majority of our annual private placement originations through direct
borrower relationships. Our origination capability offers the opportunity to lead transactions and gives us the opportunity for better terms, including covenants and call protection, and to take advantage of innovative deal structures. 
  Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Date
   The following table sets forth the breakdown
of the amortized cost of our fixed maturity securities portfolio in total by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2011.   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Financial Services Businesses
 
 
Closed Block Business
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
% of Total
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
  
% of Total
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Corporate & government securities:
  



  



 



  




 Maturing in 2012
  
$
6,229
  
  
 
3.1
% 
 
$
2,028
  
  
 
4.8
% 

 Maturing in 2013
  
 
10,676
  
  
 
5.3
  
 
 
2,577
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Maturing in 2014
  
 
10,751
  
  
 
5.4
  
 
 
1,513
  
  
 
3.6
  

 Maturing in 2015
  
 
9,045
  
  
 
4.5
  
 
 
1,584
  
  
 
3.7
  

 Maturing in 2016
  
 
9,458
  
  
 
4.7
  
 
 
1,758
  
  
 
4.1
  

 Maturing in 2017
  
 
9,323
  
  
 
4.6
  
 
 
1,610
  
  
 
3.8
  

 Maturing in 2018
  
 
9,311
  
  
 
4.6
  
 
 
2,083
  
  
 
4.9
  

 Maturing in 2019
  
 
9,947
  
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
1,462
  
  
 
3.4
  

 Maturing in 2020
  
 
9,580
  
  
 
4.8
  
 
 
1,445
  
  
 
3.3
  

 Maturing in 2021
  
 
8,606
  
  
 
4.3
  
 
 
2,007
  
  
 
4.7
  

 Maturing in 2022
  
 
4,421
  
  
 
2.2
  
 
 
953
  
  
 
2.2
  

 Maturing in 2023 and beyond
  
 
79,453
  
  
 
39.4
  
 
 
13,246
  
  
 
31.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total corporate & government securities
  
 
176,800
  
  
 
87.9
  
 
 
32,266
  
  
 
75.6
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
8,319
  
  
 
4.2
  
 
 
4,935
  
  
 
11.6
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
8,197
  
  
 
4.1
  
 
 
3,559
  
  
 
8.4
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
7,569
  
  
 
3.8
  
 
 
1,880
  
  
 
4.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
  
$
200,885
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
42,640
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  186



Table of Contents
Fixed Maturity Securities and Unrealized Gains and Losses by Industry Category
   The following table sets forth the
composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. 
  Fixed Maturity Securities—Financial Services Businesses
  




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 Industry(1)
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(2)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(2)
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(2)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(2)
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Corporate securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Manufacturing
 
$
28,091
  
 
$
2,412
  
 
$
715
  
 
$
29,788
  
 
$
21,590
  
 
$
1,538
  
 
$
539
  
 
$
22,589
  

 Utilities
 
 
14,356
  
 
 
1,454
  
 
 
517
  
 
 
15,293
  
 
 
11,153
  
 
 
851
  
 
 
179
  
 
 
11,825
  

 Finance
 
 
20,245
  
 
 
494
  
 
 
766
  
 
 
19,973
  
 
 
11,213
  
 
 
385
  
 
 
331
  
 
 
11,267
  

 Services
 
 
12,134
  
 
 
861
  
 
 
406
  
 
 
12,589
  
 
 
10,170
  
 
 
612
  
 
 
333
  
 
 
10,449
  

 Energy
 
 
7,304
  
 
 
564
  
 
 
208
  
 
 
7,660
  
 
 
5,356
  
 
 
364
  
 
 
168
  
 
 
5,552
  

 Retail and Wholesale
 
 
5,256
  
 
 
382
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
5,507
  
 
 
4,110
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
4,186
  

 Transportation
 
 
5,078
  
 
 
368
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
5,370
  
 
 
3,625
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
3,803
  

 Other
 
 
1,551
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
64
  
 
 
1,544
  
 
 
1,359
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
1,359
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate securities
 
 
94,015
  
 
 
6,592
  
 
 
2,883
  
 
 
97,724
  
 
 
68,576
  
 
 
4,266
  
 
 
1,812
  
 
 
71,030
  

 Foreign government(3)
 
 
73,209
  
 
 
4,796
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
77,801
  
 
 
48,016
  
 
 
2,915
  
 
 
86
  
 
 
50,845
  

 Residential mortgage-backed
 
 
7,569
  
 
 
425
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
7,935
  
 
 
7,504
  
 
 
397
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
7,850
  

 Asset-backed securities(4)
 
 
8,319
  
 
 
150
  
 
 
988
  
 
 
7,481
  
 
 
8,790
  
 
 
168
  
 
 
969
  
 
 
7,989
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed
 
 
8,197
  
 
 
573
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
8,666
  
 
 
8,142
  
 
 
592
  
 
 
63
  
 
 
8,671
  

 U.S. Government
 
 
7,592
  
 
 
1,920
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
9,495
  
 
 
4,807
  
 
 
464
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
5,204
  

 State & Municipal(5)
 
 
1,984
  
 
 
293
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
2,276
  
 
 
1,601
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
1,573
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total(6)(7)
 
$
200,885
  
 
$
14,749
  
 
$
4,256
  
 
$
211,378
  
 
$
147,436
  
 
$
8,826
  
 
$
3,100
  
 
$
153,162
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other
holdings. 


(2)
 
Includes $345 million of gross unrealized gains and $98 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2011, compared to $319 million of gross unrealized
gains and $68 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010 on securities classified as held-to-maturity. 


(3)
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, based on amortized cost, 84% and 83%, respectively, represent Japanese government bonds held by our Japanese insurance
operations, with no other individual country representing more than 6% and 8%, respectively of the balance. 


(4)
 
Includes securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. See “—Asset-Backed Securities” below. 


(5)
 
Includes securities related to the Build America Bonds program. 


(6)
 
Excluded from the above are securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding investments held outside
the general account, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” below. 


(7)
 
The table above excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. See “—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities” and
“—Other Trading Account Assets” for additional information.    The change in net unrealized gains and losses from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates in both the U.S. and Japan. 
  187



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity
securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. 
  Fixed Maturity Securities—Closed Block Business 
 




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 Industry(1)
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Corporate securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Manufacturing
 
$
8,325
  
 
$
1,167
  
 
$
40
  
 
$
9,452
  
 
$
7,940
  
 
$
754
  
 
$
66
  
 
$
8,628
  

 Utilities
 
 
5,630
  
 
 
907
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
6,482
  
 
 
5,566
  
 
 
510
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
6,034
  

 Services
 
 
4,731
  
 
 
578
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
5,274
  
 
 
4,562
  
 
 
377
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
4,904
  

 Finance
 
 
3,088
  
 
 
151
  
 
 
74
  
 
 
3,165
  
 
 
2,723
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
2,795
  

 Energy
 
 
1,806
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
2,061
  
 
 
1,887
  
 
 
184
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
2,065
  

 Retail and Wholesale
 
 
1,525
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
1,772
  
 
 
1,641
  
 
 
166
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
1,786
  

 Transportation
 
 
1,347
  
 
 
153
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
1,487
  
 
 
1,349
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
1,432
  

 Other
 
 
49
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
31
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total corporate securities
 
 
26,501
  
 
 
3,483
  
 
 
229
  
 
 
29,755
  
 
 
25,697
  
 
 
2,220
  
 
 
242
  
 
 
27,675
  

 Asset-backed securities(2)
 
 
4,935
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
819
  
 
 
4,172
  
 
 
4,570
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
701
  
 
 
3,929
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed
 
 
3,559
  
 
 
158
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
3,715
  
 
 
3,615
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
3,779
  

 U.S. Government
 
 
4,594
  
 
 
943
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,537
  
 
 
6,066
  
 
 
197
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
6,035
  

 Residential mortgage-backed
 
 
1,880
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
1,986
  
 
 
2,311
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
2,425
  

 Foreign government(3)
 
 
492
  
 
 
86
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
573
  
 
 
596
  
 
 
90
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
677
  

 State & Municipal
 
 
679
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
778
  
 
 
651
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
657
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total(4)
 
$
42,640
  
 
$
4,951
  
 
$
1,075
  
 
$
46,516
  
 
$
43,506
  
 
$
2,885
  
 
$
1,214
  
 
$
45,177
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other
holdings. 


(2)
 
Includes securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. See “—Asset-Backed Securities” below. 


(3)
 
As of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, based on amortized cost, no individual foreign country represented more than 8% of the balance. 


(4)
 
The table above excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. See “—Other Trading Account Assets” for additional information.
   The change in net unrealized gains
and losses from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates.   
Asset-Backed Securities   
Included within asset-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses are securities collateralized by sub-prime
mortgages. While there is no market standard definition, we define sub-prime mortgages as residential mortgages that are originated to weaker quality obligors as indicated by weaker credit scores, as well as mortgages with higher loan-to-value
ratios, or limited documentation. The significant deterioration of the U.S. housing market, high interest rate resets, higher unemployment levels, and relaxed underwriting standards for some originators of sub-prime mortgages have led to higher
delinquency rates, particularly for those mortgages issued in 2006 and 2007. Recently there has been significant attention given to potential deficiencies in lenders’ foreclosure documentation, causing delays in the foreclosure process. Many
lenders have indicated that the issues are administrative and they do not expect significant delays in their foreclosure proceedings. From the perspective of an investor in securities backed by sub-prime collateral, any significant delays in
foreclosure proceedings could result in increased servicing costs which could negatively affect the value of the impacted securities. Separately, as an investor in sub-prime securities, we are evaluating our legal options with respect to potential
remedies arising from any potential deficiencies related to the original lending and securitization practices. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our asset-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services
Businesses as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). 
  188



Table of Contents
Asset-Backed Securities at Amortized Cost—Financial Services Businesses 
 
































  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 
  
 
 
  

 Vintage
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalAmortizedCost
 
  
TotalDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
(in millions)
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Collateralized by sub-prime mortgages:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Enhanced short-term portfolio(1):
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 2007
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
272
  
  
 
277
  
  
 
338
  

 2006
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
220
  
  
 
237
  
  
 
424
  

 2005
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
9
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total enhanced short-term portfolio
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
499
  
  
 
521
  
  
 
771
  

 All other portfolios:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 2007
  
 
2
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
218
  
  
 
220
  
  
 
266
  

 2006
  
 
9
  
  
 
63
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
662
  
  
 
782
  
  
 
1,066
  

 2005
  
 
0
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
259
  
  
 
336
  
  
 
436
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
19
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
65
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
607
  
  
 
775
  
  
 
885
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total all other portfolios
  
 
30
  
  
 
105
  
  
 
126
  
  
 
106
  
  
 
1,746
  
  
 
2,113
  
  
 
2,653
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total collateralized by sub-prime mortgages(2)
  
 
30
  
  
 
107
  
  
 
128
  
  
 
124
  
  
 
2,245
  
  
 
2,634
  
  
 
3,424
  

 Other asset-backed securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Externally-managed investments in the European market
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
452
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
452
  
  
 
588
  

 Collateralized by auto loans
  
 
839
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
841
  
  
 
931
  

 Collateralized by credit cards
  
 
488
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
265
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
761
  
  
 
1,014
  

 Collateralized by non-sub-prime mortgages
  
 
1,547
  
  
 
110
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
1,707
  
  
 
1,373
  

 Other asset-backed securities(3)
  
 
701
  
  
 
935
  
  
 
165
  
  
 
45
  
  
 
78
  
  
 
1,924
  
  
 
1,460
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total asset-backed securities(4)
  
$
3,605
  
  
$
1,152
  
  
$
305
  
  
$
919
  
  
$
2,338
  
  
$
8,319
  
  
$
8,790
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Our enhanced short-term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, commercial paper issuances and cash
generated from certain trading and operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired.



(2)
 
Included within the $2.6 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages as of December 31, 2011 are $60 million of securities
collateralized by second-lien exposures. 


(3)
 
As of December 31, 2011, includes collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $115 million, with none secured by sub-prime mortgages. Also includes
asset-backed securities collateralized by education loans, equipment leases, franchises, timeshares, and aircraft. 


(4)
 
Excluded from the tables above are asset-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding
asset-backed securities held outside the general account, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” below. Also excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value.
See “—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities” and “—Other Trading Account Assets” for additional information regarding these securities. 
  189



Table of Contents
Asset-Backed Securities at Fair Value—Financial Services Businesses 
 
































  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 
  
 
 
  

 Vintage
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalFair Value
 
  
TotalDecember 
31,2010
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
(in millions)
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Collateralized by sub-prime mortgages:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Enhanced short-term portfolio(1):
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 2007
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
179
  
  
 
184
  
  
 
255
  

 2006
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
153
  
  
 
170
  
  
 
360
  

 2005
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
8
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total enhanced short-term portfolio
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
338
  
  
 
360
  
  
 
623
  

 All other portfolios:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 2007
  
 
2
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
97
  
  
 
99
  
  
 
158
  

 2006
  
 
7
  
  
 
52
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
404
  
  
 
494
  
  
 
764
  

 2005
  
 
0
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
172
  
  
 
232
  
  
 
338
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
16
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
52
  
  
 
40
  
  
 
413
  
  
 
546
  
  
 
671
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total all other portfolios
  
 
25
  
  
 
89
  
  
 
94
  
  
 
77
  
  
 
1,086
  
  
 
1,371
  
  
 
1,931
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total collateralized by sub-prime mortgages
  
 
25
  
  
 
91
  
  
 
96
  
  
 
95
  
  
 
1,424
  
  
 
1,731
  
  
 
2,554
  

 Other asset-backed securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Externally-managed investments in the European market
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
471
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
471
  
  
 
619
  

 Collateralized by auto loans
  
 
840
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
842
  
  
 
933
  

 Collateralized by credit cards
  
 
512
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
263
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
783
  
  
 
1,039
  

 Collateralized by non-sub-prime mortgages
  
 
1,616
  
  
 
113
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
1,776
  
  
 
1,421
  

 Other asset-backed securities(2)
  
 
701
  
  
 
913
  
  
 
142
  
  
 
48
  
  
 
74
  
  
 
1,878
  
  
 
1,423
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total asset-backed securities(3)
  
$
3,694
  
  
$
1,117
  
  
$
250
  
  
$
908
  
  
$
1,512
  
  
$
7,481
  
  
$
7,989
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Our enhanced short-term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, commercial paper issuances and cash
generated from certain trading and operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired.



(2)
 
As of December 31, 2011, includes collateralized debt obligations with fair value of $112 million, with none secured by sub-prime mortgages. Also includes
asset-backed securities collateralized by education loans, equipment leases, franchises, timeshares, and aircraft. 


(3)
 
Excluded from the tables above are asset-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding
asset-backed securities held outside the general account, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” below. Also excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value.
See “—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities” and “—Other Trading Account Assets” for additional information regarding these securities. 
  The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally
recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2011, including Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. In making our investment decisions, rather than relying solely on the rating agencies’ evaluations, we assign internal
ratings to our asset-backed securities based upon our dedicated asset-backed securities unit’s independent evaluation of the underlying collateral and securitization structure, including any guarantees from monoline bond insurers. 
  On an amortized cost basis, asset-backed securities
collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses decreased from $3.424 billion as of December 31, 2010, to $2.634 billion as of December 31, 2011, primarily reflecting sales, principal paydowns and
other-than-temporary impairments recognized. Gross unrealized losses related to our asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $906 million as of December 31, 2011, and
$882 million as of December 31, 2010. For additional information regarding other-than-temporary impairments of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages see “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses” above. For
information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  190



Table of Contents
The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of our asset-backed securities
collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, excluding those supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, was 30% as of December 31, 2011. The subordination percentage represents the current
weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. As of December 31, 2011, based on amortized
cost, approximately 63% of the asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 41% have estimated credit
subordination percentages of 30% or more.    In
addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior
securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $2.634 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to
the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2011 were $549 million of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities. 
  Included within asset-backed securities attributable to the
Closed Block Business are securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, as defined above. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our asset-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates
indicated, by credit quality, and for asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage).   
Asset-Backed Securities at Amortized Cost—Closed Block Business   
































  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 
  
 
 
  

 Vintage
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalAmortizedCost
 
  
TotalDecember 
31,2010
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
(in millions)
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Collateralized by sub-prime mortgages:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Enhanced short-term portfolio(1):
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 2007
  
 
2
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
202
  
  
 
209
  
  
 
258
  

 2006
  
 
0
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
192
  
  
 
214
  
  
 
390
  

 2005
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
12
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total enhanced short-term portfolio
  
 
2
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
402
  
  
 
432
  
  
 
660
  

 All other portfolios:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 2007
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
190
  
  
 
222
  
  
 
256
  

 2006
  
 
95
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
685
  
  
 
780
  
  
 
868
  

 2005
  
 
10
  
  
 
51
  
  
 
83
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
131
  
  
 
287
  
  
 
343
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
2
  
  
 
37
  
  
 
63
  
  
 
79
  
  
 
388
  
  
 
569
  
  
 
630
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total all other portfolios
  
 
112
  
  
 
88
  
  
 
166
  
  
 
98
  
  
 
1,394
  
  
 
1,858
  
  
 
2,097
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total collateralized by sub-prime mortgages(2)
  
 
114
  
  
 
92
  
  
 
169
  
  
 
119
  
  
 
1,796
  
  
 
2,290
  
  
 
2,757
  

 Other asset-backed securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Collateralized by credit cards
  
 
432
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
189
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
659
  
  
 
642
  

 Collateralized by auto loans
  
 
739
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
739
  
  
 
396
  

 Externally-managed investments in the European market
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
199
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
199
  
  
 
212
  

 Collateralized by education loans
  
 
196
  
  
 
289
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
485
  
  
 
201
  

 Other asset-backed securities(3)
  
 
268
  
  
 
207
  
  
 
54
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
563
  
  
 
362
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total asset-backed securities
  
$
1,749
  
  
$
588
  
  
$
259
  
  
$
510
  
  
$
1,829
  
  
$
4,935
  
  
$
4,570
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Our enhanced short-term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, and cash generated from certain trading and
operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired. 
  191



Table of Contents


(2)
 
Included within the $2.3 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages as of December 31, 2011 are $7 million of securities
collateralized by second-lien exposures. 


(3)
 
As of December 31, 2011, includes collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $50 million, with none secured by sub-prime mortgages. Also includes
asset-backed securities collateralized by franchises, timeshares, manufacturing and aircraft. 


(4)
 
Excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. For additional information see “—Other Trading
Account Assets.”    Asset-Backed Securities at
Fair Value—Closed Block Business   
































  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 
  
 
 
  

 Vintage
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalFair Value
 
  
TotalDecember 
31,2010
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
(in millions)
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Collateralized by sub-prime mortgages:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Enhanced short-term portfolio(1):
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 2007
  
 
2
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
141
  
  
 
148
  
  
 
202
  

 2006
  
 
0
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
139
  
  
 
160
  
  
 
339
  

 2005
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
10
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total enhanced short-term portfolio
  
 
2
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
286
  
  
 
315
  
  
 
551
  

 All other portfolios:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 2007
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
94
  
  
 
119
  
  
 
169
  

 2006
  
 
81
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
356
  
  
 
437
  
  
 
585
  

 2005
  
 
8
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
64
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
209
  
  
 
276
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
2
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
48
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
281
  
  
 
421
  
  
 
509
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total all other portfolios
  
 
96
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
127
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
811
  
  
 
1,186
  
  
 
1,539
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total collateralized by sub-prime mortgages
  
 
98
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
130
  
  
 
96
  
  
 
1,097
  
  
 
1,501
  
  
 
2,090
  

 Other asset-backed securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Collateralized by credit cards
  
 
442
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
189
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
669
  
  
 
649
  

 Collateralized by auto loans
  
 
739
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
739
  
  
 
397
  

 Externally-managed investments in the European market
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
233
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
233
  
  
 
243
  

 Collateralized by education loans
  
 
196
  
  
 
278
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
474
  
  
 
196
  

 Other asset-backed securities(2)
  
 
268
  
  
 
206
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
556
  
  
 
354
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total asset-backed securities(3)
  
$
1,743
  
  
$
564
  
  
$
221
  
  
$
520
  
  
$
1,124
  
  
$
4,172
  
  
$
3,929
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Our enhanced short-term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, and cash generated from certain trading and
operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired. 


(2)
 
As of December 31, 2011, includes collateralized debt obligations with fair value of $50 million, with none secured by sub-prime mortgages. Also includes
asset-backed securities collateralized by franchises, timeshares, manufacturing and aircraft. 


(3)
 
Excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. For additional information see “—Other Trading
Account Assets.”    On an
amortized cost basis, asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business decreased from $2.757 billion as of December 31, 2010 to $2.290 billion as of December 31, 2011, primarily
reflecting sales, principal paydowns and other-than-temporary impairments recognized. Gross unrealized losses related to our asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business were $789 million as
of December 31, 2011 and $673 million as of December 31, 2010. For additional information regarding other-than-temporary impairments of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages see “—Realized Investment Gains
and Losses” above. For information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  192



Table of Contents
The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of asset-backed securities
collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business, excluding those supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, was 31% as of December 31, 2011. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted
average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. As of December 31, 2011, based on amortized cost,
approximately 67% of the asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 43% have estimated credit subordination percentages
of 30% or more.    In addition to subordination,
certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to
principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $2.290 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business
as of December 31, 2011, were $545 million of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities. 
  Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities 
  The following tables set forth the amortized cost of our
residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated.   
Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities at Amortized Cost   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Financial Services Businesses
 
 
Closed Block Business
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
% of Total
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
  
% of Total
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 By security type:
  



  



 



  




 Agency pass-through securities(1)
  
$
7,339
  
  
 
97.0
% 
 
$
1,664
  
  
 
88.5
% 

 Collateralized mortgage obligations(2)(3)
  
 
230
  
  
 
3.0
  
 
 
216
  
  
 
11.5
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
7,569
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,880
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Portion rated AAA(4)
  
$
1,890
  
  
 
25.0
% 
 
$
0
  
  
 
0.0
% 

 Portion rated AA(4)
  
$
5,599
  
  
 
74.0
% 
 
$
1,664
  
  
 
88.5
% 
  




















 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Financial Services Businesses
 
 
Closed Block Business
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
% of Total
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
  
% of Total
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 By security type:
  



  



 



  




 Agency pass-through securities(1)
  
$
7,442
  
  
 
99.2
% 
 
$
2,055
  
  
 
88.9
% 

 Collateralized mortgage obligations(2)(3)
  
 
62
  
  
 
0.8
  
 
 
256
  
  
 
11.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total residential mortgage-backed securities
  
$
7,504
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,311
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Portion rated AAA(4)
  
$
7,413
  
  
 
98.8
% 
 
$
2,074
  
  
 
89.7
% 

 Portion rated AA(4)
  
$
43
  
  
 
0.6
% 
 
$
44
  
  
 
1.9
% 
  


(1)
 
As of December 31, 2011, of these securities, for the Financial Services Businesses, $5.408 billion are supported by U.S. government and $1.931 billion are
supported by foreign governments. As of December 31, 2010, of these securities, for the Financial Services Businesses, $5.954 billion were supported by the U.S. government and $1.488 billion were supported by foreign governments. For the Closed
Block Business all of these securities are supported by the U.S. government as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 


(2)
 
Includes alternative residential mortgage loans of $38 million and $46 million in the Financial Services Businesses, and $93 million and $108 million in the Closed
Block Business, for 2011 and 2010, respectively. 


(3)
 
 As of December 31, 2011, of these collateralized mortgage obligations, for the Financial Services Businesses, 68% have credit ratings of A or
above, 7% have BBB credit ratings and the remaining 25% have below investment grade ratings, and as of December 31, 2010, 38% have credit ratings of A or above, 7% have BBB credit ratings and the remaining 55% have below investment grade
ratings. As of 
  193



Table of Contents


 
 
December 31, 2011, for the Closed Block Business, 16% have A credit ratings or above, 34% have BBB credit ratings, and 50% have below investment grade ratings, and as of December 31,
2010, 39% have A credit ratings or above, 35% have BBB credit ratings, and 26% have below investment grade ratings. 


(4)
 
Based on lowest external rating agency rating. In August 2011, S&P downgraded U.S. debt securities from AAA to AA+. 
  Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities 
  The commercial real estate market was severely impacted by
the financial crisis and the subsequent recession. However, market fundamentals appear to have bottomed and are showing signs of improvement since late 2010. Commercial real estate vacancy rates have declined from their peak, rent growth has turned
positive for certain sectors, and prices of commercial real estate appear to be stabilizing and improving in some sectors. Additionally, the elevated delinquency rate on mortgages in the commercial mortgage-backed securities market is slowing and
refinancing activity has increased, at least partially reflecting the improvement in these fundamentals. The loans included in new issues seem to reflect better underwriting and lower levels of leverage compared to 2007. 
  Although there are some positive signs in commercial real
estate, there are still some significant challenges for this market, including numerous future loan workouts, a large wave of refinancings for over-leveraged properties and numerous legislative changes. To ensure our investment objectives and asset
strategies are maintained, we consider these market factors in making our investment decisions on commercial mortgage-backed securities.   
The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage-backed securities attributable to the
Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated, by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage).    Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities at Amortized Cost—Financial Services Businesses   
































 Vintage
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1)
 
  
 
 
  

  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalAmortizedCost
 
  
TotalDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 


  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011
  
$
0
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
0
  

 2010
  
 
0
  
  
 
99
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
99
  
  
 
89
  

 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
117
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
117
  
  
 
117
  

 2008
  
 
170
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
197
  
  
 
263
  

 2007
  
 
1,798
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
49
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
1,887
  
  
 
1,970
  

 2006
  
 
2,582
  
  
 
310
  
  
 
63
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,955
  
  
 
3,307
  

 2005
  
 
1,660
  
  
 
90
  
  
 
54
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,804
  
  
 
1,643
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
842
  
  
 
175
  
  
 
85
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
1,133
  
  
 
753
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage-backed securities(2)(3)(4)
  
$
7,052
  
  
$
830
  
  
$
254
  
  
$
37
  
  
$
24
  
  
$
8,197
  
  
$
8,142
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2011, including Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s, Fitch and Realpoint. 


(2)
 
Excluded from the table above are available-for-sale commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For
additional information regarding commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed
securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. See “—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities” for additional information regarding these securities. 


(3)
 
Included in the table above as of December 31, 2011 are downgraded super senior securities with amortized cost of $408 million in AA and $144 million in A.



(4)
 
Included in the table above as of December 31, 2011 are agency commercial mortgage-backed securities with amortized cost of $256 million all rated AA.

  194



Table of Contents
Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities at Fair Value—Financial Services Businesses 
 
































 Vintage
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1)
 
  
 
 
  

  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalFair Value
 
  
TotalDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2011
  
$
0
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
0
  

 2010
  
 
0
  
  
 
108
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
108
  
  
 
90
  

 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
128
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
128
  
  
 
118
  

 2008
  
 
180
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
206
  
  
 
262
  

 2007
  
 
1,852
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
1,958
  
  
 
2,070
  

 2006
  
 
2,804
  
  
 
341
  
  
 
69
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
3,214
  
  
 
3,567
  

 2005
  
 
1,799
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
51
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,930
  
  
 
1,785
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
844
  
  
 
167
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
1,117
  
  
 
779
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage-backed securities(2)
  
$
7,479
  
  
$
867
  
  
$
250
  
  
$
33
  
  
$
37
  
  
$
8,666
  
  
$
8,671
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2011, including Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s, Fitch and Realpoint. 


(2)
 
Excluded from the table above are available-for-sale commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For
additional information regarding commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed
securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. See “—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities” for additional information regarding these securities. 
  Included in the table above are commercial mortgage-backed
securities collateralized by non-U.S. properties all related to Japanese commercial mortgage-backed securities held by our Japanese insurance operations with an amortized cost of $13 million in AAA, $4 million in A, $17 million in BBB and $13
million in BB and below as of December 31, 2011, and $12 million in AAA, $3 million in A, $18 million in BBB and $104 million in BB and below as of December 31, 2010. 
  Included in the table above are commercial mortgage-backed
securities collateralized by U.S. properties all related to commercial mortgage-backed securities held by the acquired Edison business with an amortized cost of $441 million in AAA, $184 million in AA, $122 million in A and $5 million in BBB as of
December 31, 2011.    The weighted average
estimated subordination percentage of our commercial mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 32% as of December 31, 2011. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated
percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage includes an
adjustment for that portion of the capital structure, which has been effectively defeased by U.S. Treasury securities. As of December 31, 2011, based on amortized cost, approximately 95% of the commercial mortgage-backed securities attributable
to the Financial Services Businesses have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 76% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. The following tables set forth the weighted average estimated subordination
percentage, adjusted for that portion of the capital structure which has been effectively defeased by U.S. Treasury securities, of our commercial mortgage-backed securities collateralized by U.S. and Non-U.S. properties, attributable to the
Financial Services Businesses based on amortized cost as of December 31, 2011, by rating and vintage. 
  195



Table of Contents
U.S. Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities—Subordination Percentages by Rating and
Vintage—Financial Services Businesses   
























 Vintage
  
December 31, 2011
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1)(2)
 

  
  AAA  
 
 
  AA  
 
 
  A  
 
 
BBB
 
 
BB andbelow
 

 2011
  



 



 
 
17
% 
 



 




 2010
  



 



 



 



 




 2009
  



 



 



 



 




 2008
  
 
31
% 
 



 



 



 




 2007
  
 
30
% 
 



 
 
31
% 
 



 




 2006
  
 
33
% 
 
 
34
% 
 
 
32
% 
 



 




 2005
  
 
33
% 
 
 
16
% 
 
 
26
% 
 



 




 2004 & Prior
  
 
31
% 
 
 
26
% 
 
 
31
% 
 
 
19
% 
 
 
27
% 
   Non- U.S. Commercial Mortgage-Backed
Securities—Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage—Financial Services Businesses   






















 Vintage
  
December 31, 2011
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1)(2)
 

  
  AAA  
 
 
  AA  
  
  A  
 
 
BBB
 
 
BB andbelow
 

 2011
  



 

  



 



 




 2010
  



 

  



 



 




 2009
  



 

  



 



 




 2008
  



 

  
 
42
% 
 
 
32
% 
 
 
57
% 

 2007
  



 

  



 



 
 
22
% 

 2006
  
 
65
% 
 

  



 



 




 2005
  



 

  



 



 
 
11
% 

 2004 & Prior
  



 

  



 



 



  


(1)
 
The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2011, including Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s, Fitch, and Realpoint. 


(2)
 
Excludes agency commercial mortgage-backed securities.   
The super senior structure was introduced to the U.S. commercial mortgage-backed securities market in late 2004 and was modified in early
2005 to increase subordination from 20% to 30%. With the changes to the commercial mortgage-backed securities structure in 2005, there became three distinct AAA classes for commercial mortgage-backed securities with fixed-rate terms, (1) super
senior AAA with 30% subordination, (2) mezzanine AAA with 20% subordination and (3) junior AAA with approximately 14% subordination. The super senior class has priority over the mezzanine and junior classes to all principal cash flows
(repayments, prepayments and recoveries on defaulted loans). As a result, all super senior bonds must be completely repaid before the mezzanine or junior bonds receive any principal cash flows. In addition, the super senior bonds will not experience
any loss of principal until both the entire mezzanine and junior bonds are written-down to zero. We believe the importance of this additional credit enhancement afforded to the super senior class over the mezzanine and junior classes is limited in a
benign commercial real estate cycle with low defaults but becomes more significant in a deep commercial real estate downturn under which expected losses increase substantially. 
  In addition to enhanced subordination, certain securities
within the super senior class benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows. The super senior class is generally structured such that shorter duration time tranches have priority over longer duration time tranches as to all principal cash
flows (repayments, prepayments, and recoveries on defaulted loans) until the deal reaches 30% cumulative net loss, at which point all super senior securities are paid pro rata. As a result, short of reaching 30% cumulative net losses, the
“shorter duration super senior” tranches must be completely repaid before the “longest duration super senior” tranche receives any principal cash flows. We have generally focused our purchases of recent vintage commercial
mortgage-backed securities on “shorter duration super senior” tranches that we believe have sufficient priority to ensure that in most scenarios our positions will be fully repaid prior to the structure reaching the 30% cumulative net loss
threshold. The following table sets forth the amortized cost of our AAA commercial mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated, by type and by year of issuance (vintage). 
  196



Table of Contents
AAA Rated Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities—Amortized Cost by Type and Vintage—Financial
Services Businesses   




































 Vintage
  
December 31, 2011
 

  
Super Senior AAA Structures
 
  
Other AAA
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

  
SuperSenior(shorterdurationtranches)

 
  
SuperSenior(longestdurationtranches)
 
  
Mezzanine
 
  
Junior
 
  
OtherSenior
 
  
OtherSubordinate
 
  
Other
 
  
Total AAASecurities atAmortizedCost
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
(in millions)
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 2010
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 2008
  
 
169
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
169
  

 2007
  
 
1,798
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,798
  

 2006
  
 
1,391
  
  
 
1,178
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
2,582
  

 2005
  
 
553
  
  
 
1,082
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
1,661
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
30
  
  
 
157
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
63
  
  
 
410
  
  
 
179
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
842
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,941
  
  
$
2,417
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
79
  
  
$
410
  
  
$
185
  
  
$
20
  
  
$
7,052
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The following tables set
forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). 
  Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities at Amortized Cost—Closed Block
Business   
































 Vintage
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1)
 
  
 
 
  

  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalAmortizedCost
 
  
TotalDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2011
  
$
53
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
53
  
  
$
0
  

 2010
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  

 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 2008
  
 
3
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
9
  

 2007
  
 
799
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
28
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
831
  
  
 
705
  

 2006
  
 
852
  
  
 
70
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
933
  
  
 
873
  

 2005
  
 
1,282
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,307
  
  
 
1,219
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
368
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
427
  
  
 
804
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage-backed securities(2)(3)
  
$
3,357
  
  
$
109
  
  
$
80
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
7
  
  
$
3,559
  
  
$
3,615
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2011, including Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s, Fitch, and Realpoint. 


(2)
 
Included in the table above as of December 31, 2011 are downgraded super senior securities with amortized cost of $73 million in AA and $64 million in A.



(3)
 
Included in the table above as of December 31, 2011 are agency commercial mortgage-backed securities with amortized cost of $5 million all rated AA.

  197



Table of Contents
Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities at Fair Value—Closed Block Business 
 
































 Vintage
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1)
 
  
 
 
  

  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalFair Value
 
  
TotalDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2011
  
$
57
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
57
  
  
$
0
  

 2010
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  

 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 2008
  
 
4
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
10
  

 2007
  
 
818
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
860
  
  
 
731
  

 2006
  
 
896
  
  
 
78
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
986
  
  
 
923
  

 2005
  
 
1,338
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
27
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,365
  
  
 
1,277
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
379
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
438
  
  
 
833
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
$
3,492
  
  
$
117
  
  
$
84
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
16
  
  
$
3,715
  
  
$
3,779
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2011, including Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s, Fitch, and Realpoint.   
The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of commercial mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business
was 32% as of December 31, 2011. See above for a definition of this percentage. As of December 31, 2011, based on amortized cost, approximately 96% of the commercial mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business have
estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 73% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. The following tables set forth the weighted average estimated subordination percentage, adjusted for that portion of
the capital structure which has been effectively defeased by U.S. Treasury securities, of our commercial mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business based on amortized cost as of December 31, 2011, by rating and
vintage.    Commercial Mortgage-Backed
Securities—Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage—Closed Block Business   
























 Vintage
  
December 31, 2011
 

  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 

  
  AAA  
 
 
  AA  
 
 
  A  
 
 
BBB
 
 
BB andbelow
 

 2011
  
 
20
% 
 



 



 



 




 2010
  



 



 



 



 




 2009
  



 



 



 



 




 2008
  
 
31
% 
 



 



 



 




 2007
  
 
30
% 
 



 
 
30
% 
 



 
 
7
% 

 2006
  
 
32
% 
 
 
34
% 
 
 
33
% 
 



 




 2005
  
 
33
% 
 



 
 
32
% 
 



 




 2004 & Prior
  
 
35
% 
 
 
34
% 
 
 
61
% 
 
 
71
% 
 
 
69
% 
   As discussed above, with the
changes to the commercial mortgage-backed securities market in late 2004 and early 2005, there are now three distinct AAA classes for commercial mortgage-backed securities with fixed rate terms, (1) super senior AAA with 30% subordination,
(2) mezzanine AAA with 20% subordination and (3) junior AAA with approximately 14% subordination. In addition to the enhanced subordination, certain securities within the super senior class benefit from the prioritization of principal cash
flows. The following table sets forth the amortized cost our AAA commercial mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by type and by year of issuance (vintage). 
  198



Table of Contents
AAA Rated Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities—Amortized Cost by Type and Vintage—Closed Block
Business   




































 Vintage
  
December 31, 2011
 

  
Super Senior AAA Structures
 
  
Other AAA
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

  
SuperSenior(shorterdurationtranches)
 
  
SuperSenior(longestdurationtranches)
 
  
Mezzanine
 
  
Junior
 
  
OtherSenior
 
  
OtherSubordinate
 
  
Other
 
  
Total AAASecurities atAmortizedCost
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2011
  
$
12
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
41
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
53
  

 2010
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 2008
  
 
3
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
3
  

 2007
  
 
799
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
799
  

 2006
  
 
617
  
  
 
225
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
852
  

 2005
  
 
824
  
  
 
458
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,282
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
40
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
255
  
  
 
62
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
368
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,295
  
  
$
694
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
296
  
  
$
62
  
  
$
10
  
  
$
3,357
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Fixed Maturity Securities
Credit Quality    The Securities Valuation
Office, or SVO, of the NAIC, evaluates the investments of insurers for statutory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called “NAIC Designations.” In general, NAIC Designations of “1”
highest quality, or “2” high quality, include fixed maturities considered investment grade, which include securities rated Baa3 or higher by Moody’s or BBB- or higher by Standard & Poor’s. NAIC Designations of
“3” through “6” generally include fixed maturities referred to as below investment grade, which include securities rated Ba1 or lower by Moody’s and BB+ or lower by Standard & Poor’s. However, in the fourth
quarter of 2009 the NAIC adopted rules which changed the methodology for determining the NAIC Designations for non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, including our asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Under
these rules, rather than being based on the rating of a third party rating agency, as of December 31, 2009 the NAIC Designations for such securities are based on security level expected losses as modeled by an independent third party (engaged
by the NAIC) and the statutory carrying value of the security, including any purchase discounts or impairment charges previously recognized. The modeled results used in determining NAIC Designations as of December 31, 2009 were updated and
utilized for reporting as of December 31, 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the NAIC adopted rules which changed the methodology for determining the NAIC Designations for commercial mortgage-backed securities, similar to what was done in the
fourth quarter of 2009 for residential mortgage-backed securities. Both methodologies remained unchanged and were utilized for December 31, 2011.   
As a result of time lags between the funding of investments, the finalization of legal documents and the completion of the SVO filing
process, the fixed maturity portfolio generally includes securities that have not yet been rated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date. Pending receipt of SVO ratings, the categorization of these securities by NAIC designation is based on the
expected ratings indicated by internal analysis.   
Investments of our international insurance companies are not subject to NAIC guidelines. Investments of our Japanese insurance operations
are regulated locally by the Financial Services Agency, an agency of the Japanese government. The Financial Services Agency has its own investment quality criteria and risk control standards. Our Japanese insurance companies comply with the
Financial Services Agency’s credit quality review and risk monitoring guidelines. The credit quality ratings of the investments of our Japanese insurance companies are based on ratings assigned by nationally recognized credit rating agencies,
including Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, or rating equivalents based on ratings assigned by Japanese credit ratings agencies.   
The amortized cost of our public and private fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses considered other than high
or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating totaled $9.3 billion, or 5%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2011 and $8.7 billion, or 6%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2010. Fixed maturities
considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or 
  199



Table of Contents

equivalent rating represented 30% and 27% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of
December 31, 2011, the amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, based on the lowest of external rating agency ratings, totaled $10.9 billion, or 5%, of
the total fixed maturities, and includes securities considered high or highest quality by the NAIC based on the new rules for residential mortgage-backed securities described above.    The amortized cost of our public and private fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business
considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating totaled $4.4 billion, or 10%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2011 and $5.6 billion, or 13%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31,
2010. Fixed maturities considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating represented 51% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2011, and 44% as of
December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, the amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business, based on the lowest of external rating agency ratings, totaled $5.5
billion, or 13%, of the total fixed maturities, and includes securities considered high or highest quality by the NAIC based on the new rules for residential mortgage-backed securities described above. 
  Public Fixed Maturities—Credit Quality
   The following table sets forth our public
fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated.   
Public Fixed Maturity Securities—Financial Services Businesses   




































(1)(2)
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 NAIC Designation
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(3)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(3)
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(3)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(3)
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 1
 
$
151,700
  
 
$
11,143
  
 
$
1,756
  
 
$
161,087
  
 
$
105,068
  
 
$
6,278
  
 
$
1,240
  
 
$
110,106
  

 2
 
 
17,017
  
 
 
1,298
  
 
 
797
  
 
 
17,518
  
 
 
14,129
  
 
 
892
  
 
 
585
  
 
 
14,436
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities
 
 
168,717
  
 
 
12,441
  
 
 
2,553
  
 
 
178,605
  
 
 
119,197
  
 
 
7,170
  
 
 
1,825
  
 
 
124,542
  

 3
 
 
3,446
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
574
  
 
 
2,938
  
 
 
2,753
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
208
  
 
 
2,645
  

 4
 
 
1,328
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
296
  
 
 
1,066
  
 
 
1,067
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
885
  

 5
 
 
443
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
174
  
 
 
275
  
 
 
630
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
211
  
 
 
440
  

 6
 
 
219
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
271
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
210
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal Other Securities(4)
 
 
5,436
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
1,149
  
 
 
4,408
  
 
 
4,721
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
714
  
 
 
4,180
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Public Fixed Maturities
 
$
174,153
  
 
$
12,562
  
 
$
3,702
  
 
$
183,013
  
 
$
123,918
  
 
$
7,343
  
 
$
2,539
  
 
$
128,722
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. 


(2)
 
Includes, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, 10 securities with amortized cost of $2 million (fair value, $12 million) and 17 securities with amortized cost of $11
million (fair value, $20 million), respectively, that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. 


(3)
 
Includes $282 million of gross unrealized gains and $97 million gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2011, compared to $272 million of gross unrealized gains
and $67 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010 on securities classified as held-to-maturity. 


(4)
 
On amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2011 includes $185 million in emerging markets securities and $70 million in securitized bank loans.

  200



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation
attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated.    Public Fixed Maturity Securities—Closed Block Business   




































(1)
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 NAIC Designation
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 1
 
$
21,098
  
 
$
2,424
  
 
$
381
  
 
$
23,141
  
 
$
21,965
  
 
$
1,075
  
 
$
551
  
 
$
22,489
  

 2
 
 
4,638
  
 
 
629
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
5,133
  
 
 
4,842
  
 
 
423
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
5,177
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal High or Highest QualitySecurities
 
 
25,736
  
 
 
3,053
  
 
 
515
  
 
 
28,274
  
 
 
26,807
  
 
 
1,498
  
 
 
639
  
 
 
27,666
  

 3
 
 
1,103
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
1,080
  
 
 
1,547
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
1,543
  

 4
 
 
808
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
245
  
 
 
577
  
 
 
1,031
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
857
  

 5
 
 
369
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
218
  
 
 
527
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
176
  
 
 
368
  

 6
 
 
66
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
58
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
65
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal Other Securities(2)
 
 
2,346
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
497
  
 
 
1,937
  
 
 
3,163
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
467
  
 
 
2,833
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Public Fixed Maturities
 
$
28,082
 
 
$
3,141
 
 
$
1,012
 
 
$
30,211
 
 
$
29,970
 
 
$
1,635
 
 
$
1,106
 
 
$
30,499
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, 11 securities with amortized cost of $11 million (fair value, $13 million) and 15 securities with amortized cost of $9
million (fair value, $10 million), respectively, that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. 


(2)
 
On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2011, includes $290 million in securitized bank loans and $182 million in emerging markets securities.
   Private Fixed
Maturities—Credit Quality    The following
table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated.   
Private Fixed Maturity Securities—Financial Services Businesses   




































(1)(2)
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 NAIC Designation
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(3)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(3)
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(3)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(3)
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 1
 
$
7,018
  
 
$
730
  
 
$
84
  
 
$
7,664
  
 
$
6,226
  
 
$
511
  
 
$
90
  
 
$
6,647
  

 2
 
 
15,847
  
 
 
1,273
  
 
 
362
  
 
 
16,758
  
 
 
13,264
  
 
 
792
  
 
 
341
  
 
 
13,715
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities
 
 
22,865
  
 
 
2,003
  
 
 
446
  
 
 
24,422
  
 
 
19,490
  
 
 
1,303
  
 
 
431
  
 
 
20,362
  

 3
 
 
2,532
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
43
  
 
 
2,623
  
 
 
2,467
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
63
  
 
 
2,508
  

 4
 
 
715
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
709
  
 
 
948
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
930
  

 5
 
 
490
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
453
  
 
 
518
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
522
  

 6
 
 
130
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
158
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
118
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal Other Securities(4)
 
 
3,867
  
 
 
184
  
 
 
108
  
 
 
3,943
  
 
 
4,028
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
4,078
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Private Fixed Maturities
 
$
26,732
  
 
$
2,187
  
 
$
554
  
 
$
28,365
  
 
$
23,518
  
 
$
1,483
  
 
$
561
  
 
$
24,440
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. 


(2)
 
Includes, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, 100 securities with amortized cost of $815 million (fair value, $840 million) and 160 securities with amortized cost of
$1,776 million (fair value, $1,800 million), respectively, that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. 


(3)
 
Includes $63 million of gross unrealized gains and $1 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2011, compared to $47 million of gross unrealized gains
and $1 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010 on securities classified as held-to-maturity. 


(4)
 
On an amortized cost basis, as December 31, 2011 includes $419 million in securitized bank loans and $244 million in commercial asset finance securities.

  201



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation
attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated.    Private Fixed Maturity Securities—Closed Block Business   




































(1)
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 NAIC Designation
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 1
 
$
3,651
  
 
$
660
  
 
$
 0
  
 
$
4,311
  
 
$
3,702
  
 
$
447
  
 
$
11
  
 
$
4,138
  

 2
 
 
8,861
  
 
 
1,069
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
9,914
  
 
 
7,386
  
 
 
711
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
8,062
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities
 
 
12,512
  
 
 
1,729
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
14,225
  
 
 
11,088
  
 
 
1,158
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
12,200
  

 3
 
 
1,061
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
1,117
  
 
 
1,292
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
1,338
  

 4
 
 
618
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
613
  
 
 
803
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
792
  

 5
 
 
215
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
307
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
297
  

 6
 
 
152
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
51
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal Other Securities(2)
 
 
2,046
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
2,080
  
 
 
2,448
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
2,478
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Private Fixed Maturities
 
$
14,558
  
 
$
1,810
  
 
$
63
  
 
$
16,305
  
 
$
13,536
  
 
$
1,250
  
 
$
108
  
 
$
14,678
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, 56 securities with amortized cost of $926 million (fair value, $968 million) and 103 securities with amortized cost of
$1,523 million (fair value, $1,506 million), respectively, that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. 


(2)
 
On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2011, includes $290 million in securitized bank loans and $272 million in commercial asset finance securities.
   Corporate Securities—Credit
Quality    The following table sets forth both
our public and private corporate securities by NAIC designation attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated.   
Corporate Securities—Financial Services Businesses   




































(1)
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 NAIC Designation
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 1
 
$
55,051
  
 
$
3,850
  
 
$
1,170
  
 
$
57,731
  
 
$
36,486
  
 
$
2,413
  
 
$
645
  
 
$
38,254
  

 2
 
 
31,355
  
 
 
2,487
  
 
 
1,072
  
 
 
32,770
  
 
 
25,678
  
 
 
1,598
  
 
 
844
  
 
 
26,432
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities
 
 
86,406
  
 
 
6,337
  
 
 
2,242
  
 
 
90,501
  
 
 
62,164
  
 
 
4,011
  
 
 
1,489
  
 
 
64,686
  

 3
 
 
5,379
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
469
  
 
 
5,095
  
 
 
4,253
  
 
 
150
  
 
 
191
  
 
 
4,212
  

 4
 
 
1,469
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
1,386
  
 
 
1,483
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
99
  
 
 
1,417
  

 5
 
 
585
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
543
  
 
 
546
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
557
  

 6
 
 
176
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
199
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
158
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal Other Securities
 
 
7,609
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
641
  
 
 
7,223
  
 
 
6,412
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
323
  
 
 
6,344
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Corporate Fixed Maturities
 
$
94,015
  
 
$
6,592
  
 
$
2,883
  
 
$
97,724
  
 
$
68,576
  
 
$
4,266
  
 
$
1,812
  
 
$
71,030
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. 
  202



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth our corporate securities by NAIC designation attributable to
the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated.    Corporate
Securities—Closed Block Business   




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 NAIC Designation
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 1
 
$
10,528
  
 
$
1,714
  
 
$
62
  
 
$
12,180
  
 
$
10,064
  
 
$
951
  
 
$
65
  
 
$
10,950
  

 2
 
 
12,773
  
 
 
1,631
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
14,337
  
 
 
11,505
  
 
 
1,080
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
12,520
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities
 
 
23,301
  
 
 
3,345
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
26,517
  
 
 
21,569
  
 
 
2,031
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
23,470
  

 3
 
 
1,747
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
1,832
  
 
 
2,309
  
 
 
115
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
2,393
  

 4
 
 
949
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
928
  
 
 
1,320
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
1,300
  

 5
 
 
297
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
275
  
 
 
422
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
419
  

 6
 
 
207
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
203
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
93
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal Other Securities
 
 
3,200
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
3,238
  
 
 
4,128
  
 
 
189
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
4,205
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Corporate Fixed Maturities
 
$
26,501
  
 
$
3,483
  
 
$
229
  
 
$
29,755
  
 
$
25,697
  
 
$
2,220
  
 
$
242
  
 
$
27,675
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Credit Derivative Exposure
to Public Fixed Maturities    In addition to
the credit exposure from public fixed maturities noted above, we sell credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments. 
  In a credit derivative, we sell credit protection on an
identified name, and in return receive a quarterly premium. With single name credit default derivatives, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced name’s public fixed maturity cash
instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed.    The referenced names in the credit derivatives where we have sold credit protection, as well as all the counterparties to these agreements, are investment grade credit quality and our credit derivatives
generally have maturities of ten years or less. Credit derivative contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value, including the premium received, recorded in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” The premium received
for the credit derivatives we sell attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was $6 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and were included in adjusted operating income as an adjustment to
“Realized investment gains (losses), net.”    The following table sets forth our exposure where we have sold credit protection through credit derivatives in the Financial Services Businesses by NAIC rating of the underlying credits as of the dates
indicated.    Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection—Financial
Services Businesses   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Single Name
 
  
Single Name
 

 NAIC Designation
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 1
  
$
745
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
290
  
  
$
3
  

 2
  
 
25
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
770
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
315
  
  
 
3
  

 3 through 6
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total(1)
  
$
770
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
315
  
  
$
3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes a credit derivative related to surplus notes issued by a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance and embedded derivatives contained in certain externally-managed
investments in the European market. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these derivatives. 
  203



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth our exposure where we have sold credit protection through
credit derivatives in the Closed Block Business portfolios by NAIC designation of the underlying credits as of the dates indicated.   
Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection—Closed Block Business   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Single Name
 
  
Single Name
 

 NAIC Designation
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 1
  
$
50
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
0
  

 2
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
50
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  

 3 through 6
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total(1)
  
$
50
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes embedded derivatives contained in certain externally-managed investments in the European market. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding these derivatives.    In addition to selling credit protection, we have purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio, including exposures relating
to certain guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Financial Services Businesses had $1.598 billion and $1.785 billion of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of $2 million and
$2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Closed Block Business had $381 million and $399 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of less than $1 million and a liability of $1 million,
respectively. The premium paid for the credit derivatives we purchase attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was $43 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and was included in adjusted
operating income as an adjustment to “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding credit derivatives and an overall description of our derivative
activities.    Unrealized Losses from Fixed
Maturity Securities    The following table sets
forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following
timeframes:    Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities,
Greater than 20%—Financial Services Businesses   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Less than three months
  
$
1,371
  
  
$
349
  
  
$
622
  
  
$
136
  

 Three months or greater but less than six months
  
 
1,667
  
  
 
399
  
  
 
751
  
  
 
169
  

 Six months or greater but less than nine months
  
 
864
  
  
 
309
  
  
 
1,094
  
  
 
283
  

 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months
  
 
745
  
  
 
193
  
  
 
173
  
  
 
52
  

 Greater than twelve months
  
 
3,809
  
  
 
1,392
  
  
 
2,503
  
  
 
908
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
8,456
  
  
$
2,642
  
  
$
5,143
  
  
$
1,548
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost
by 20% or more, using month-end valuations.    Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more of $2.642 billion as of
December 31, 2011, include 
  204



Table of Contents

$847 million relating to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value
had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2011, also includes $80 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with amortized cost of $132 million where the estimated fair value had declined and
remained below amortized cost by 50% or more, of which, $23 million was included in the less than three months timeframe, $22 million was included in the three months or greater but less than six months timeframe, $1 million was included in the six
months or greater but less than nine months timeframe, and $34 million was included in the greater than twelve months timeframe. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the tables above as other-than-temporary impairments in
earnings based on our detailed analysis of the underlying credit and cash flows on each of these securities. The gross unrealized losses are primarily attributable to foreign currency movements, general credit spread widening in the structured
credit marketplace and liquidity discounts, and we believe the recoverable value of these investments based on the expected future cash flows is greater than or equal to our remaining amortized cost. At December 31, 2011, we do not intend to
sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before the anticipated recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis. See “—Other-Than-Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity
Securities” for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations.    The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and
remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes:    Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities, Greater than 20%—Closed Block Business   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Less than three months
  
$
122
  
  
$
33
  
  
$
173
  
  
$
37
  

 Three months or greater but less than six months
  
 
353
  
  
 
90
  
  
 
149
  
  
 
43
  

 Six months or greater but less than nine months
  
 
179
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
70
  
  
 
16
  

 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months
  
 
122
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
73
  
  
 
22
  

 Greater than twelve months
  
 
1,263
  
  
 
605
  
  
 
1,518
  
  
 
559
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,039
  
  
$
817
  
  
$
1,983
  
  
$
677
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost
by 20% or more, using month-end valuations.    The gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in asset-backed securities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the
estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more of $817 million as of December 31, 2011, include $730 million relating to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses
attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2011, does not include any gross unrealized losses on securities where the estimated fair
value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 50% or more. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the tables above as other-than-temporary impairments in earnings based on our detailed analysis of the underlying credit
and cash flows on each of these securities. The gross unrealized losses are primarily attributable to general credit spread widening in the structured credit marketplace and liquidity discounts, and we believe the recoverable value of these
investments based on the expected future cash flows is greater than or equal to our remaining amortized cost. At December 31, 2011, we do not intend to sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell
these securities before the anticipated recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis. See “—Other-Than-Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities” for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations.

  205



Table of Contents
Other-Than-Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities 
  We maintain separate monitoring processes for public and
private fixed maturities and create watch lists to highlight securities that require special scrutiny and management. Our public fixed maturity asset managers formally review all public fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more
frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and/or company or industry specific concerns. 
  For private placements, our credit and portfolio management
processes help ensure prudent controls over valuation and management. We have separate pricing and authorization processes to establish “checks and balances” for new investments. We apply consistent standards of credit analysis and due
diligence for all transactions, whether they originate through our own in-house origination staff or through agents. Our regional offices closely monitor the portfolios in their regions. We set all valuation standards centrally, and we assess the
fair value of all investments quarterly. Our private fixed maturity asset managers formally review all private fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to
ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and/or company or industry specific concerns.    Fixed maturity securities classified as held-to-maturity are those securities where we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until maturity. These securities are reflected at amortized cost
in our consolidated statements of financial position. Other fixed maturity securities are considered available-for-sale and, as a result, we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent that amortized cost is different from estimated fair value.
All held-to-maturity securities and all available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other-than-temporary impairments in value. 
  In evaluating whether a decline in value is
other-than-temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following:   


 
•
 
 the reasons for the decline in value (credit event, currency or interest rate related, including general credit spread widening);
  


 
•
 
 the financial condition of and near-term prospects of the issuer; and   


 
•
 
 the extent and duration of the decline.   
In determining whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary, we place greater emphasis on our analysis of the underlying credit
versus the extent and duration of a decline in value. Our credit analysis of an investment includes determining whether the issuer is current on its contractual payments, evaluating whether it is probable that we will be able to collect all amounts
due according to the contractual terms of the security, and analyzing our overall ability to recover the amortized cost of the investment. We continue to utilize valuation declines as a potential indicator of credit deterioration, and apply
additional levels of scrutiny in our analysis as the severity and duration of the decline increases.   
In addition, we recognize an other-than-temporary impairment in earnings for a debt security in an unrealized loss position when
(a) we have the intent to sell the debt security, or (b) it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery or (c) a foreign currency denominated security with a foreign currency
translation loss approaches maturity. For all debt securities in unrealized loss positions that do not meet any of these criteria, we analyze our ability to recover the amortized cost by comparing the net present value of our best estimate of
projected future cash flows with the amortized cost of the security. If the net present value is less than the amortized cost of the investment, an other-than-temporary impairment is recorded. The determination of the assumptions used in these
projections requires the use of significant management judgment. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these assumptions and our policies for recognizing other-than-temporary impairments for debt
securities.    Other-than-temporary impairments of
general account fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses that were recognized in earnings were $431 million and $564 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Included in the
other-than-temporary impairments of general account fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, were $118 million and $209 million, respectively, of other-than-temporary
impairments on asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. 
  206



Table of Contents
Other-than-temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed
Block Business that were recognized in earnings were $104 million and $168 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Included in the other-than-temporary impairments of fixed maturities attributable to the Closed
Block Business for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, were $67 million and $133 million, respectively, of other-than-temporary impairments on asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. For a further discussion of
other-than-temporary impairments, see “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses” above.    Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities   
Certain products included in the Retirement and International Insurance segments are experience-rated, meaning that we expect the
investment results associated with these products will ultimately accrue to contractholders. The investments supporting these experience-rated products, excluding commercial mortgage and other loans, are primarily classified as trading and are
reflected on the balance sheet as “Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value.” Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are reported in “Asset management fees and other income,”
and excluded from adjusted operating income. Investment income for these investments is reported in “Net investment income,” and is included in adjusted operating income. The following table sets forth the composition of this portfolio as
of the dates indicated.   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
$
951
  
  
$
951
  
  
$
697
  
  
$
697
  

 Fixed maturities:
  



  



  



  




 Corporate securities
  
 
10,297
  
  
 
11,036
  
  
 
9,581
  
  
 
10,118
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
2,157
  
  
 
2,247
  
  
 
2,352
  
  
 
2,407
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
1,786
  
  
 
1,844
  
  
 
1,350
  
  
 
1,363
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
1,504
  
  
 
1,367
  
  
 
1,158
  
  
 
1,030
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
644
  
  
 
655
  
  
 
567
  
  
 
569
  

 U.S. government authorities and agencies and obligations of U.S. states
  
 
440
  
  
 
470
  
  
 
467
  
  
 
448
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
  
 
16,828
  
  
 
17,619
  
  
 
15,475
  
  
 
15,935
  

 Equity securities
  
 
1,050
  
  
 
911
  
  
 
1,156
  
  
 
1,139
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
$
18,829
  
  
$
19,481
  
  
$
17,328
  
  
$
17,771
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   As a percentage of amortized
cost, 75% and 76% of the portfolio was publicly traded as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, 92% and 90%, respectively, of the fixed maturity portfolio was considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or
equivalent rating. As of December 31, 2011, $1.662 billion of the residential mortgage-backed securities were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees all of which have
credit ratings of A or higher. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $91 million secured by “ALT-A” mortgages, represented the remaining $124 million of residential mortgage-backed securities, of which 77% have
credit ratings of A or better and 23% are BBB and below. For a discussion of changes in the fair value of our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities see “—Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities, Trading Account Assets
Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Related Investments,” above. 
  207



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the composition by industry category of the corporate
securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated.   
Corporate Securities by Industry Category—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 Industry(1)
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Corporate Securities:
  



  



  



  




 Manufacturing
  
$
3,119
  
  
$
3,401
  
  
$
3,084
  
  
$
3,306
  

 Utilities
  
 
1,819
  
  
 
1,996
  
  
 
1,961
  
  
 
2,076
  

 Services
  
 
1,959
  
  
 
2,088
  
  
 
1,700
  
  
 
1,783
  

 Finance
  
 
1,711
  
  
 
1,720
  
  
 
1,270
  
  
 
1,290
  

 Energy
  
 
656
  
  
 
726
  
  
 
704
  
  
 
753
  

 Transportation
  
 
565
  
  
 
599
  
  
 
467
  
  
 
495
  

 Retail and Wholesale
  
 
452
  
  
 
490
  
  
 
378
  
  
 
398
  

 Other
  
 
16
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
17
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Corporate Securities
  
$
10,297
  
  
$
11,036
  
  
$
9,581
  
  
$
10,118
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other
holdings.    The following tables set
forth our asset-backed securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, by year of
issuance (vintage).    Asset-Backed Securities at Amortized
Cost—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities   
































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
TotalDecember 31,2010
 

 
  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 
  
 
 
  

 Vintage
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalAmortizedCost
 
  

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Collateralized by sub-prime mortgages:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 2007
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
120
  
  
 
120
  
  
 
124
  

 2006
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
79
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
101
  

 2005
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
50
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
1
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
41
  
  
 
65
  
  
 
71
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total collateralized by sub-prime mortgages
  
 
1
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
275
  
  
 
300
  
  
 
346
  

 Other asset-backed securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Collateralized by auto loans
  
 
274
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
292
  
  
 
36
  

 Collateralized by credit cards
  
 
400
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
49
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
449
  
  
 
443
  

 Other asset-backed securities
  
 
267
  
  
 
145
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
463
  
  
 
333
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total asset-backed securities
  
$
942
  
  
$
153
  
  
$
25
  
  
$
98
  
  
$
286
  
  
$
1,504
  
  
$
1,158
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  208



Table of Contents
Asset-Backed Securities at Fair Value—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities
  
































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
TotalDecember 
31,2010
 

 
  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 
  
 
 
  

 Vintage
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
Total FairValue
 
  

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Collateralized by sub-prime mortgages:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 2011—2008
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 2007
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
42
  
  
 
42
  
  
 
56
  

 2006
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
45
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
65
  

 2005
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
36
  

 2004 & Prior
  
 
1
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
44
  
  
 
51
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total collateralized by sub-prime mortgages(1)
  
 
1
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
137
  
  
 
157
  
  
 
208
  

 Other asset-backed securities:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Collateralized by auto loans
  
 
274
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
293
  
  
 
36
  

 Collateralized by credit cards
  
 
412
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
49
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
461
  
  
 
460
  

 Other asset-backed securities(2)
  
 
268
  
  
 
144
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
456
  
  
 
326
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total asset-backed securities
  
$
955
  
  
$
151
  
  
$
24
  
  
$
91
  
  
$
146
  
  
$
1,367
  
  
$
1,030
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Included within the $157 million of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages at fair value as of December 31, 2011 are $0 million of
securities collateralized by second-lien exposures at fair value. 


(2)
 
As of December 31, 2011, includes collateralized debt obligations with fair value of $31 million, none of which is secured by sub-prime mortgages. Also includes
asset-backed securities collateralized by timeshares, franchises, education loans, and equipment leases.   
The following tables set forth our commercial mortgage-backed securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance
liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated, by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage).    Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities at Amortized Cost—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities   
































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
TotalDecember 
31,2010
 

 
  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 
  
 
 
  

 Vintage
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
TotalAmortizedCost
 
  

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2011
  
$
16
  
  
$
10
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
26
  
  
$
0
  

 2010
  
 
0
  
  
 
103
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
103
  
  
 
65
  

 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
32
  

 2008
  
 
30
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
30
  

 2007
  
 
195
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
195
  
  
 
128
  

 2006
  
 
578
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
631
  
  
 
651
  

 2005 & Prior
  
 
1,111
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
1,168
  
  
 
1,446
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage-backed securities(1)
  
$
1,930
  
  
$
177
  
  
$
22
  
  
$
17
  
  
$
11
  
  
$
2,157
  
  
$
2,352
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Included in the table above as of December 31, 2011 are downgraded super senior securities with amortized cost of $53 million in AA. 
  209



Table of Contents
Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities at Fair Value—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance
Liabilities   
































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
TotalDecember 
31,2010
 

 
  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 
  
 
 
  

 Vintage
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
Total FairValue
 
  

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2011
  
$
17
  
  
$
11
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
28
  
  
$
0
  

 2010
  
 
0
  
  
 
111
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
111
  
  
 
64
  

 2009
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
31
  

 2008
  
 
31
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
31
  

 2007
  
 
198
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
198
  
  
 
130
  

 2006
  
 
607
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
662
  
  
 
670
  

 2005 & Prior
  
 
1,164
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
1,212
  
  
 
1,481
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
$
2,017
  
  
$
189
  
  
$
20
  
  
$
12
  
  
$
9
  
  
$
2,247
  
  
$
2,407
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The following table sets
forth our public fixed maturities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC designation as of the dates indicated. 
  Public Fixed Maturity Securities—Trading Account Assets Supporting
Insurance Liabilities   




































(1)(2)
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 NAIC Designation
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(3)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(3)
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(3)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(3)
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 1
 
$
8,892
  
 
$
472
  
 
$
92
  
 
$
9,272
  
 
$
7,836
  
 
$
313
  
 
$
93
  
 
$
8,056
  

 2
 
 
2,560
  
 
 
217
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
2,762
  
 
 
2,768
  
 
 
160
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
2,884
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities
 
 
11,452
  
 
 
689
  
 
 
107
  
 
 
12,034
  
 
 
10,604
  
 
 
473
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
10,940
  

 3
 
 
283
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
285
  
 
 
329
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
311
  

 4
 
 
163
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
178
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
146
  

 5
 
 
77
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
48
  

 6
 
 
82
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
26
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal Other Securities
 
 
605
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
141
  
 
 
478
  
 
 
651
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
531
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Public Fixed Maturities
 
$
12,057
  
 
$
703
  
 
$
248
  
 
$
12,512
  
 
$
11,255
  
 
$
489
  
 
$
273
  
 
$
11,471
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
See “—Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality” above for a discussion on NAIC designations. 


(2)
 
Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities.



(3)
 
Amounts are reported in “Asset management fees and other income.” 
  210



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth our private fixed maturities included in our trading account
assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC designation as of the dates indicated.    Private Fixed Maturity Securities—Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities   




































(1)(2)
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 NAIC Designation
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(3)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(3)
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains(3)
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses(3)
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 1
 
$
828
  
 
$
74
  
 
$
10
  
 
$
892
  
 
$
805
  
 
$
66
  
 
$
11
  
 
$
860
  

 2
 
 
3,143
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
3,392
  
 
 
2,584
  
 
 
187
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
2,761
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities
 
 
3,971
  
 
 
336
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
4,284
  
 
 
3,389
  
 
 
253
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
3,621
  

 3
 
 
588
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
619
  
 
 
656
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
677
  

 4
 
 
123
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
97
  

 5
 
 
76
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
51
  

 6
 
 
13
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
18
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal Other Securities
 
 
800
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
823
  
 
 
831
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
843
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Private Fixed Maturities
 
$
4,771
  
 
$
372
  
 
$
36
  
 
$
5,107
  
 
$
4,220
  
 
$
286
  
 
$
42
  
 
$
4,464
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
See “—Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality” above for a discussion on NAIC designations. 


(2)
 
Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities.



(3)
 
Amounts are reported in “Asset management fees and other income.” 
  Other Trading Account Assets 
  “Other trading account assets, at fair value”
consist primarily of certain financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative where we elected to classify the entire instrument as a trading account asset rather than bifurcate. These instruments are carried at fair value, with realized
and unrealized gains and losses reported in “Asset management fees and other income,” and excluded from adjusted operating income. Interest and dividend income from these investments is reported in “Net investment income,”
and is included in adjusted operating income. The following table sets forth the composition of our other trading account assets as of the dates indicated.   




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Financial ServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Financial ServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 

 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
 
$
4
  
 
$
4
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
3
  
 
$
3
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  

 Fixed maturities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Corporate securities
 
 
116
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
119
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
150
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
118
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed
 
 
155
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
143
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Residential mortgage-backed
 
 
186
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Asset-backed securities
 
 
598
  
 
 
551
  
 
 
69
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
636
  
 
 
589
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
37
  

 Foreign government
 
 
46
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 U.S. government
 
 
4
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
 
 
1,105
  
 
 
912
  
 
 
179
  
 
 
189
  
 
 
1,266
  
 
 
1,048
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
155
  

 Equity securities(1)
 
 
1,226
  
 
 
1,177
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
157
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1
  

 Other
 
 
11
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other trading account assets
 
$
2,346
  
 
$
2,104
  
 
$
312
  
 
$
317
  
 
$
1,438
  
 
$
1,220
  
 
$
147
  
 
$
156
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
During 2011, perpetual preferred stocks of $1.3 billion ($1.2 billion Financial Services Businesses, $0.1 billion Closed Block Business) were reclassified from
“Equity securities, available-for-sale.” Prior periods were not restated. 
  211



Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2011, on an amortized cost basis 82% of asset-backed securities
classified as “Other trading account assets” attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have credit ratings of A or above, 9% have BBB and the remaining 9% have BB and below credit ratings. As of December 31, 2011, on an
amortized cost basis 75% of asset-backed securities classified as “Other trading account assets” attributable to the Closed Block Business have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 25% have BBB credit ratings. 
  Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans 
  Investment Mix 
  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 we held approximately
10% and 11%, respectively, of our general account investments in commercial mortgage and other loans. This percentage is net of a $310 million and $435 million allowance for losses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The following
table sets forth the composition of our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio, before the allowance for losses, as of the dates indicated.   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
  
ClosedBlockBusiness
 
  
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
  
ClosedBlockBusiness
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
  
$
21,988
  
  
$
9,100
  
  
$
19,796
  
  
$
8,608
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
2,236
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,467
  
  
 
0
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
1,033
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
891
  
  
 
1
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
66
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage and other loans(1)
  
$
25,323
  
  
$
9,100
  
  
$
22,234
  
  
$
8,609
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage loans held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding
commercial mortgage loans held outside the general account, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” below.   
We originate commercial and agricultural mortgage loans using a dedicated investment staff and a network of independent companies through
our various regional offices. All loans are underwritten consistently to our standards using a proprietary quality rating system that has been developed from our experience in real estate and mortgage lending. 
  Uncollateralized loans primarily represent reverse dual
currency loans and corporate loans which do not meet the definition of a security under authoritative accounting guidance.   
Residential property loans primarily include Japanese recourse loans. Upon default of these recourse loans we can make a claim against the
personal assets of the property owner, in addition to the mortgaged property. These loans are also backed by third party guarantors.   
Other collateralized loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses include $63 million and $75 million of collateralized
consumer loans and $0 million and $4 million of loans collateralized by aviation assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
Composition of Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans 
  The commercial real estate market was severely impacted by
the financial crisis and the subsequent recession, though the flow of capital to commercial real estate has been strong since 2010. Portfolio lenders are actively originating loans on the highest quality properties in primary markets, resulting in
an increase in the liquidity and availability of capital in the commercial mortgage loan market. For certain property types, the market fundamentals are stabilizing to slightly improving, while other property types have farther to go in this
recovery. In addition, the commercial banks are active and there has been new loan origination activity by securitization lenders. These conditions have led to greater competition for portfolio lenders such as our general

  212



Table of Contents

account, though underwriting remains conservative. While there is still weakness in commercial real estate fundamentals that are dependent on employment recovery, delinquency rates on our
commercial mortgage loans remain relatively stable. For additional information see “— Realized Investment Gains and Losses.”   
Our commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. The
following tables set forth the breakdown of the gross carrying values of our general account investments in commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by geographic region and property type as of the dates indicated. 
 




































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Financial ServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Financial ServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 

 
  
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by region:
  



  



 



  



 



  



 



  




 U.S. Regions:
  



  



 



  



 



  



 



  




 Pacific
  
$
7,136
  
  
 
32.5
% 
 
$
3,118
  
  
 
34.3
% 
 
$
5,845
  
  
 
29.5
% 
 
$
2,861
  
  
 
33.2
% 

 South Atlantic
  
 
4,568
  
  
 
20.8
  
 
 
1,868
  
  
 
20.5
  
 
 
4,612
  
  
 
23.3
  
 
 
1,739
  
  
 
20.2
  

 Middle Atlantic
  
 
3,221
  
  
 
14.6
  
 
 
2,109
  
  
 
23.2
  
 
 
3,122
  
  
 
15.8
  
 
 
1,959
  
  
 
22.8
  

 East North Central
  
 
1,579
  
  
 
7.2
  
 
 
336
  
  
 
3.7
  
 
 
1,607
  
  
 
8.1
  
 
 
356
  
  
 
4.1
  

 West South Central
  
 
1,858
  
  
 
8.4
  
 
 
688
  
  
 
7.6
  
 
 
1,541
  
  
 
7.8
  
 
 
676
  
  
 
7.9
  

 Mountain
  
 
1,181
  
  
 
5.4
  
 
 
356
  
  
 
3.9
  
 
 
1,081
  
  
 
5.5
  
 
 
358
  
  
 
4.2
  

 New England
  
 
637
  
  
 
2.9
  
 
 
257
  
  
 
2.8
  
 
 
623
  
  
 
3.1
  
 
 
269
  
  
 
3.1
  

 West North Central
  
 
576
  
  
 
2.6
  
 
 
185
  
  
 
2.0
  
 
 
516
  
  
 
2.6
  
 
 
183
  
  
 
2.1
  

 East South Central
  
 
307
  
  
 
1.4
  
 
 
152
  
  
 
1.7
  
 
 
317
  
  
 
1.6
  
 
 
156
  
  
 
1.8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal—U.S.
  
 
21,063
  
  
 
95.8
  
 
 
9,069
  
  
 
99.7
  
 
 
19,264
  
  
 
97.3
  
 
 
8,557
  
  
 
99.4
  

 Asia
  
 
519
  
  
 
2.4
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0.0
  
 
 
224
  
  
 
1.1
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0.0
  

 Other
  
 
406
  
  
 
1.8
  
 
 
31
  
  
 
0.3
  
 
 
308
  
  
 
1.6
  
 
 
51
  
  
 
0.6
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans .
  
$
21,988
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
9,100
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
19,796
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
8,608
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




































 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Financial ServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Financial ServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 

 
  
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by property type:
  



  



 



  



 



  



 



  




 Industrial buildings
  
$
5,234
  
  
 
23.8
% 
 
$
1,804
  
  
 
19.8
% 
 
$
4,627
  
  
 
23.4
% 
 
$
1,910
  
  
 
22.2
% 

 Retail stores
  
 
4,988
  
  
 
22.7
  
 
 
2,207
  
  
 
24.2
  
 
 
4,276
  
  
 
21.6
  
 
 
1,938
  
  
 
22.5
  

 Office buildings
  
 
4,043
  
  
 
18.4
  
 
 
2,216
  
  
 
24.4
  
 
 
3,676
  
  
 
18.5
  
 
 
1,900
  
  
 
22.1
  

 Apartments/Multi-family
  
 
3,263
  
  
 
14.8
  
 
 
1,254
  
  
 
13.8
  
 
 
3,004
  
  
 
15.2
  
 
 
1,321
  
  
 
15.3
  

 Other
  
 
2,079
  
  
 
9.5
  
 
 
517
  
  
 
5.7
  
 
 
1,882
  
  
 
9.5
  
 
 
452
  
  
 
5.3
  

 Agricultural properties
  
 
1,363
  
  
 
6.2
  
 
 
674
  
  
 
7.4
  
 
 
1,205
  
  
 
6.1
  
 
 
680
  
  
 
7.9
  

 Hospitality
  
 
1,018
  
  
 
4.6
  
 
 
428
  
  
 
4.7
  
 
 
1,126
  
  
 
5.7
  
 
 
407
  
  
 
4.7
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
  
$
21,988
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
9,100
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
19,796
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
8,608
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Loan-to-value and debt
service coverage ratios are measures commonly used to assess the quality of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans. The loan-to-value ratio compares the amount of the loan to the fair value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan,
and is commonly expressed as a percentage. Loan-to-value ratios greater than 100% percent indicate that the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. A smaller loan-to-value ratio indicates a greater excess of collateral value over the loan
amount. The debt service 
  213



Table of Contents

coverage ratio compares a property’s net operating income to its debt service payments. Debt service coverage ratios less than 1.0 times indicate that property operations do not generate
enough income to cover the loan’s current debt payments. A larger debt service coverage ratio indicates a greater excess of net operating income over the debt service payments.    As of December 31, 2011, our general account investments in commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
attributable to the Financial Services Businesses had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.88 times, and a weighted average loan-to-value ratio of 59%. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 98% of commercial and agricultural
mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were fixed rate loans. As of December 31, 2011, our general account investments in commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Closed Block Business had a
weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.90 times, and a weighted average loan-to-value ratio of 55%. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 99% of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Closed Block Business
were fixed rate loans. For those general account commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses that were originated in 2011, the weighted average debt service coverage ratio was 2.09 times and the
weighted average loan-to-value ratio was 59%.    The
values utilized in calculating these loan-to-value ratios are developed as part of our periodic review of the commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolio, which includes an internal evaluation of the underlying collateral value. Our periodic
review also includes a quality re-rating process, whereby we update the internal quality rating originally assigned at underwriting based on the proprietary quality rating system mentioned above. As discussed below, the internal quality rating is a
key input in determining our allowance for loan losses.    For loans with collateral under construction, renovation or lease-up, a stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan-to-value and debt service coverage
ratios. Our commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses included approximately $0.5 billion of such loans as of December 31, 2011 and $0.6 billion of such loans as of December 31,
2010, and our commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business included approximately $0.2 billion of such loans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. All else being equal, these loans are inherently
more risky than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. As of December 31, 2011, there are no loan-specific reserves related to these loans attributable to either the Financial Services Businesses or the Closed Block
Business. In addition, these unstabilized loans are included in the calculation of our portfolio reserve as discussed below. For information regarding similar loans we hold as part of our commercial and agricultural mortgage operations, see
“—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations.” The following tables set forth the gross carrying value of our general account investments in commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services
Businesses and the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated by loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios.   
Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans by Loan-to-Value and Debt Service Coverage Ratios—Financial Services Businesses 
 
































 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
 Debt Service Coverage Ratio
 

 
  
Greaterthan2.0x
 
  
1.8xto2.0x
 
  
1.5xto<1.8x
 
  
1.2xto<1.5x
 
  
1.0xto<1.2x
 
  
Lessthan1.0x
 
  
TotalCommercialandAgriculturalMortgageLoans
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
  
(in millions)
 

 0%—49.99%
  
$
3,346
  
  
$
1,026
  
  
$
1,039
  
  
$
854
  
  
$
272
  
  
$
80
  
  
$
6,617
  

 50%—59.99%
  
 
1,268
  
  
 
820
  
  
 
1,016
  
  
 
430
  
  
 
120
  
  
 
58
  
  
 
3,712
  

 60%—69.99%
  
 
1,918
  
  
 
1,032
  
  
 
1,354
  
  
 
1,407
  
  
 
520
  
  
 
166
  
  
 
6,397
  

 70%—79.99%
  
 
481
  
  
 
201
  
  
 
588
  
  
 
1,350
  
  
 
791
  
  
 
137
  
  
 
3,548
  

 80%—89.99%
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
115
  
  
 
302
  
  
 
194
  
  
 
351
  
  
 
962
  

 90%—100%
  
 
19
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
40
  
  
 
321
  
  
 
399
  

 Greater than 100%
  
 
16
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
267
  
  
 
353
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
  
$
7,048
  
  
$
3,098
  
  
$
4,129
  
  
$
4,357
  
  
$
1,976
  
  
$
1,380
  
  
$
21,988
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  214



Table of Contents
Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans by Loan-to-Value and Debt Service Coverage Ratios—Closed
Block Business   
































 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
 Debt Service Coverage Ratio
 

 
  
Greaterthan2.0x
 
  
1.8xto2.0x
 
  
1.5xto<1.8x
 
  
1.2xto<1.5x
 
  
1.0xto<1.2x
 
  
Lessthan1.0x
 
  
TotalCommercialandAgriculturalMortgageLoans
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
  
(in millions)
 

 0%—49.99%
  
$
1,801
  
  
$
383
  
  
$
490
  
  
$
407
  
  
$
180
  
  
$
63
  
  
$
3,324
  

 50%—59.99%
  
 
496
  
  
 
199
  
  
 
359
  
  
 
276
  
  
 
133
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
1,498
  

 60%—69.99%
  
 
563
  
  
 
388
  
  
 
619
  
  
 
803
  
  
 
186
  
  
 
89
  
  
 
2,648
  

 70%—79.99%
  
 
118
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
183
  
  
 
524
  
  
 
466
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
1,381
  

 80%—89.99%
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
51
  
  
 
130
  

 90%—100%
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
35
  

 Greater than 100%
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
84
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
  
$
2,978
  
  
$
980
  
  
$
1,669
  
  
$
2,069
  
  
$
998
  
  
$
406
  
  
$
9,100
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The following table sets
forth the breakdown of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by year of origination as of December 31, 2011.   




















  
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Financial Services Businesses
 
 
Closed Block Business
 

 Year of Origination
  
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% of Total
 
 
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
% of Total
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 2011
  
$
4,940
  
  
 
22.5
% 
 
$
1,473
  
  
 
16.2
% 

 2010
  
 
3,243
  
  
 
14.7
  
 
 
1,086
  
  
 
11.9
  

 2009
  
 
1,507
  
  
 
6.9
  
 
 
491
  
  
 
5.4
  

 2008
  
 
2,861
  
  
 
13.0
  
 
 
1,120
  
  
 
12.3
  

 2007
  
 
3,496
  
  
 
15.9
  
 
 
1,442
  
  
 
15.9
  

 2006 and prior
  
 
5,941
  
  
 
27.0
  
 
 
3,488
  
  
 
38.3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
  
$
21,988
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
9,100
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  215



Table of Contents
Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans by Contractual Maturity Date 
  The following table sets forth the breakdown of our
commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2011.   




















  
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Financial Services Businesses
 
 
Closed Block Business
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
% of Total
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
  
% of Total
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Vintage
  



  



 



  




 Maturing in 2012
  
$
2,297
  
  
 
9.1
% 
 
$
735
  
  
 
8.1
% 

 Maturing in 2013
  
 
2,409
  
  
 
9.5
  
 
 
680
  
  
 
7.5
  

 Maturing in 2014
  
 
1,540
  
  
 
6.1
  
 
 
860
  
  
 
9.4
  

 Maturing in 2015
  
 
2,386
  
  
 
9.4
  
 
 
878
  
  
 
9.6
  

 Maturing in 2016
  
 
2,892
  
  
 
11.4
  
 
 
957
  
  
 
10.5
  

 Maturing in 2017
  
 
2,686
  
  
 
10.6
  
 
 
635
  
  
 
7.0
  

 Maturing in 2018
  
 
3,117
  
  
 
12.3
  
 
 
1,061
  
  
 
11.7
  

 Maturing in 2019
  
 
742
  
  
 
2.9
  
 
 
271
  
  
 
3.0
  

 Maturing in 2020
  
 
1,560
  
  
 
6.2
  
 
 
850
  
  
 
9.3
  

 Maturing in 2021
  
 
2,149
  
  
 
8.5
  
 
 
1,029
  
  
 
11.3
  

 Maturing in 2022
  
 
803
  
  
 
3.2
  
 
 
327
  
  
 
3.6
  

 Maturing in 2023 and beyond
  
 
2,742
  
  
 
10.8
  
 
 
817
  
  
 
9.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage and other loans
  
$
25,323
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
9,100
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Commercial Mortgage and
Other Loan Quality    Ongoing review of the
portfolio is performed and loans are placed on watch list status based on a predefined set of criteria, where they are assigned to one of the following categories. We place loans on early warning status in cases where, based on our analysis of the
loan’s collateral, the financial situation of the borrower or tenants or other market factors, we believe a loss of principal or interest could occur. We classify loans as closely monitored when we determine there is a collateral deficiency or
other credit events that may lead to a potential loss of principal or interest. Loans not in good standing are those loans where we have concluded that there is a high probability of loss of principal, such as when the loan is in the process of
foreclosure or the borrower is in bankruptcy. In our domestic operations, our workout and special servicing professionals manage the loans on the watch list. As described below, in determining our allowance for losses we evaluate each loan on the
watch list to determine if it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. In our international portfolios, we monitor delinquency in consumer loans on a pool basis and evaluate any
servicing relationship and guarantees the same way we do for commercial mortgage loans.    We establish an allowance for losses to provide for the risk of credit losses inherent in the lending process. The allowance includes loan specific reserves for loans that are determined to be impaired as
a result of our loan review process, and a portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses for loans which are not on the watch list. We define an impaired loan as a loan for which we estimate it is probable that
amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. The loan specific portion of the loss allowance is based on our assessment as to ultimate collectability of loan principal and interest. Valuation allowances
for an impaired loan are recorded based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate or based on the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The portfolio reserve
for incurred but not specifically identified losses considers the current credit composition of the portfolio based on the internal quality ratings mentioned above. The portfolio reserves are determined using past loan experience, including
historical credit migration, loss probability, and loss severity factors by property type. These factors are reviewed and updated as appropriate. The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans can increase or decrease from period to
period based on these factors. The following tables set forth the aging schedule of our general account investments in commercial mortgage and other loans, based upon the recorded investment gross of allowance for credit losses, attributable to the
Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. 
  216



Table of Contents
Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans—Financial Services Businesses 
 
































 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Current
 
  
30-59 DaysPast Due
 
  
60-89 DaysPast Due
 
  
GreaterThan 90Days-Accruing
 
  
GreaterThan 90Days-NotAccruing
 
  
Total PastDue
 
  
TotalCommercialMortgageand OtherLoans
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
5,234
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
5,234
  

 Retail
  
 
4,983
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
4,988
  

 Office
  
 
4,022
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
4,043
  

 Multi-Family/Apartment
  
 
3,217
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
3,263
  

 Hospitality
  
 
1,018
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,018
  

 Other
  
 
2,029
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
27
  
  
 
50
  
  
 
2,079
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
20,503
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
94
  
  
 
122
  
  
 
20,625
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
1,331
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
1,363
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
987
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
1,033
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
66
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
66
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
2,236
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,236
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
25,123
  
  
$
41
  
  
$
17
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
142
  
  
$
200
  
  
$
25,323
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Commercial Mortgage and Other
Loans—Closed Block Business   
































 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Current
 
  
30-59 DaysPast Due
 
  
60-89 DaysPast Due
 
  
GreaterThan 90Days-Accruing
 
  
GreaterThan 90Days-NotAccruing
 
  
Total PastDue
 
  
TotalCommercialMortgageand
 OtherLoans
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
1,802
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
1,804
  

 Retail
  
 
2,207
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,207
  

 Office
  
 
2,216
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,216
  

 Multi-Family/Apartment
  
 
1,254
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,254
  

 Hospitality
  
 
428
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
428
  

 Other
  
 
517
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
517
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
8,424
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
8,426
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
674
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
674
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
9,098
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
9,100
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  217



Table of Contents
Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans—Financial Services Businesses 
 
































 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Current
 
  
30-59 DaysPast Due
 
  
60-89 DaysPast Due
 
  
GreaterThan 90Days-Accruing
 
  
GreaterThan 90Days-NotAccruing
 
  
Total PastDue
 
  
TotalCommercialMortgageand OtherLoans
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
4,627
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
4,627
  

 Retail
  
 
4,213
  
  
 
58
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
63
  
  
 
4,276
  

 Office
  
 
3,655
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
3,676
  

 Multi-Family/Apartment
  
 
3,003
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
3,004
  

 Hospitality
  
 
1,029
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
97
  
  
 
1,126
  

 Other
  
 
1,829
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
1,882
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
18,356
  
  
 
107
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
118
  
  
 
235
  
  
 
18,591
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
1,174
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
1,205
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
847
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
44
  
  
 
891
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
78
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
80
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
1,467
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,467
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
21,922
  
  
$
128
  
  
$
13
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
171
  
  
$
312
  
  
$
22,234
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Commercial Mortgage and Other
Loans—Closed Block Business   
































 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Current
 
  
30-59 DaysPast Due
 
  
60-89 DaysPast Due
 
  
GreaterThan 90Days-Accruing
 
  
GreaterThan 90Days-NotAccruing
 
  
Total PastDue
 
  
TotalCommercialMortgageand OtherLoans
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
1,910
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
1,910
  

 Retail
  
 
1,934
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
1,938
  

 Office
  
 
1,900
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,900
  

 Multi-Family/Apartment
  
 
1,321
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,321
  

 Hospitality
  
 
399
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
407
  

 Other
  
 
436
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
452
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
7,900
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
28
  
  
 
7,928
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
680
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
680
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
8,581
  
  
$
4
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
24
  
  
$
28
  
  
$
8,609
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The following table sets
forth the change in valuation allowances for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio as of the dates indicated:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
 
ClosedBlockBusiness
 
 
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
 
ClosedBlockBusiness
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Allowance, beginning of year
  
$
333
  
 
$
102
  
 
$
410
  
 
$
124
  

 Addition to/(release of) allowance for losses
  
 
(71
) 
 
 
(42
) 
 
 
(78
) 
 
 
(22
) 

 Charge-offs, net of recoveries
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
  

 Change in foreign exchange
  
 
3
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance, end of period
  
$
250
  
 
$
60
  
 
$
333
  
 
$
102
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  218



Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2011, the $250 million valuation allowance for our commercial
mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses included $91 million related to loan specific reserves and $159 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified
losses. As of December 31, 2010, the $333 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses included $143 million related to loan specific reserves and $190
million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses.   
As of December 31, 2011, the $60 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the
Closed Block Business included $2 million related to loan specific reserves and $58 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. As of December 31, 2010, the $102 million valuation
allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business included $17 million related to loan specific reserves and $85 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not
specifically identified losses. The decrease in the allowance for both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business primarily reflects positive credit migration for certain mortgages. 
  Equity Securities 
  Investment Mix 
  The equity securities attributable to the Financial Services
Businesses consist principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly traded companies, as well as mutual fund shares and perpetual preferred securities, as discussed below. The following table sets forth the composition of our
equity securities portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated.   
Equity Securities—Financial Services Businesses   




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
Cost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
Cost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Public Equity
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Perpetual preferred stocks(1)
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
249
  
 
$
19
  
 
$
14
  
 
$
254
  

 Non-redeemable preferred stocks
 
 
1
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13
  

 Mutual fund common stocks(2)
 
 
1,708
  
 
 
428
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
2,134
  
 
 
1,592
  
 
 
462
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,054
  

 Other common stocks
 
 
2,400
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
272
  
 
 
2,203
  
 
 
1,267
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
1,335
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total public equity
 
 
4,109
  
 
 
504
  
 
 
274
  
 
 
4,339
  
 
 
3,117
  
 
 
597
  
 
 
58
  
 
 
3,656
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 











 Private Equity
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Perpetual preferred stocks(1)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
449
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
448
  

 Non-redeemable preferred stocks
 
 
18
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
10
  

 Common stock
 
 
28
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
21
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total private equity(3)
 
 
46
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
476
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
479
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
 
$
4,155
  
 
$
521
  
 
$
275
  
 
$
4,401
  
 
$
3,593
  
 
$
622
  
 
$
80
  
 
$
4,135
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
During 2011, perpetual preferred stocks of $1.2 billion were reclassified to “Other trading account assets.” Prior periods were not restated.



(2)
 
Includes mutual fund shares representing our interest in the underlying assets of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate-owned life insurance.
These mutual funds invest primarily in high yield bonds. 


(3)
 
Hedge funds and other alternative investments are included in “Other long-term investments.” 
  219



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio
attributable to the Closed Block Business and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated.   
Equity Securities—Closed Block Business   




































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Cost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
Cost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Public Equity
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Perpetual preferred stocks(1)
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
133
  
 
$
11
  
 
$
4
  
 
$
140
  

 Non-redeemable preferred stocks
 
 
2
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Common stock
 
 
2,746
  
 
 
538
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
3,111
  
 
 
2,725
  
 
 
759
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
3,447
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total public equity
 
 
2,748
  
 
 
538
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
3,113
  
 
 
2,858
  
 
 
770
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
3,587
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Private Equity
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Perpetual preferred stocks(1)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Non-redeemable preferred stocks
 
 
9
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
6
  

 Common stock
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total private equity
 
 
9
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
6
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
 
$
2,757
  
 
$
538
  
 
$
173
  
 
$
3,122
  
 
$
2,864
  
 
$
770
  
 
$
41
  
 
$
3,593
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
During 2011, perpetual preferred stocks of $0.1 billion were reclassified to “Other trading account assets.” Prior periods were not restated.
   Unrealized Losses from Equity
Securities    The following table sets forth
the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by less than 20% for the following timeframes: 
  Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Less than 20%—Financial
Services Businesses   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Less than three months
  
$
508
  
  
$
31
  
  
$
108
  
  
$
2
  

 Three months or greater but less than six months
  
 
551
  
  
 
54
  
  
 
226
  
  
 
13
  

 Six months or greater but less than nine months
  
 
191
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
269
  
  
 
19
  

 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months
  
 
193
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
3
  

 Greater than twelve months(2)
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
302
  
  
 
18
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,443
  
  
$
144
  
  
$
925
  
  
$
55
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by less
than 20%, using month-end valuations. 


(2)
 
Includes only perpetual preferred stocks as of December 31, 2010. During 2011, perpetual preferred stocks were reclassified to “Other trading account
assets.” Prior periods were not restated. 
  220



Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities
attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: 
  Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Greater than 20%—Financial
Services Businesses   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Less than three months
  
$
243
  
  
$
63
  
  
$
13
  
  
$
4
  

 Three months or greater but less than six months
  
 
172
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
8
  

 Six months or greater but less than nine months
  
 
20
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
1
  

 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  

 Greater than twelve months(2)
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
11
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
435
  
  
$
131
  
  
$
64
  
  
$
25
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by 20% or
more, using month-end valuations. 


(2)
 
Includes only perpetual preferred stocks as of December 31, 2010. During 2011, perpetual preferred stocks were reclassified to “Other trading account
assets.” Prior periods were not restated.    The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2011, were primarily concentrated in the other, manufacturing, and finance sectors compared to December 31, 2010, where the gross unrealized losses
were primarily concentrated in the finance and public utilities sectors. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more of $131 million as
of December 31, 2011, also include $3 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with amortized cost of $5 million where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 50% or more. The gross unrealized losses of $3
million were included in the less than three months timeframe. Included in the December 31, 2010 amounts above are perpetual preferred securities. Perpetual preferred securities have characteristics of both debt and equity securities. Since we
apply to these securities an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities, we have not recognized an other-than-temporary impairment on certain of these perpetual preferred securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss
position for twelve months or more as of December 31, 2010. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the table above as other-than-temporary impairments. See “—Other-Than-Temporary Impairments of Equity
Securities” for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations.    The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost
by less than 20% for the following timeframes:    Unrealized
Losses from Equity Securities, Less than 20%—Closed Block Business   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Less than three months
  
$
377
  
  
$
23
  
  
$
253
  
  
$
10
  

 Three months or greater but less than six months
  
 
287
  
  
 
28
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
4
  

 Six months or greater but less than nine months
  
 
151
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
107
  
  
 
9
  

 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months
  
 
18
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
56
  
  
 
4
  

 Greater than twelve months(2)
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
833
  
  
$
68
  
  
$
524
  
  
$
31
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by less
than 20%, using month-end valuations. 
  221



Table of Contents


(2)
 
Includes only perpetual preferred stocks as of December 31, 2010. During 2011, perpetual preferred stocks were reclassified to “Other trading account
assets.” Prior periods were not restated.    The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost
by 20% or more for the following timeframes:    Unrealized Losses
from Equity Securities, Greater than 20%—Closed Block Business   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Less than three months
  
$
164
  
  
$
43
  
  
$
12
  
  
$
3
  

 Three months or greater but less than six months
  
 
166
  
  
 
59
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
3
  

 Six months or greater but less than nine months
  
 
8
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
4
  

 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Greater than twelve months
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
338
  
  
$
105
  
  
$
33
  
  
$
10
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by 20% or
more, using month-end valuations.   
The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2011, were primarily concentrated in the manufacturing and finance sectors compared to
December 31, 2010, where the gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in the services, manufacturing, and finance sectors. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined
and remained below cost by 20% or more of $105 million as of December 31, 2011 does not include any gross unrealized losses on securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 50% or more. Perpetual preferred
securities have characteristics of both debt and equity securities. Since we apply to these securities an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities, we have not recognized an other-than-temporary impairment on certain of these
perpetual preferred securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for twelve months or more as of December 31, 2010. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the table above as other-than-temporary
impairments. See “—Other-Than-Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities” for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. 
  Other-Than-Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities
   For those equity securities classified as
available-for-sale, we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent cost is different from estimated fair value. All securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other-than-temporary impairments in value. In evaluating
whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following:   


 
•
 
 the extent and the duration of the decline; including, but not limited to, the following general guidelines: 
 


 
•
 
 declines in value greater than 20%, maintained for six months or greater;   


 
•
 
 declines in value maintained for one year or greater; and 
 


 
•
 
 declines in value greater than 50%;   


 
•
 
 the reasons for the decline in value (issuer specific event, currency or market fluctuation); 
 


 
•
 
 our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value, including certain equity securities managed by
independent third parties where we do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions; and   


 
•
 
 the financial condition of and near-term prospects of the issuer. 
  222



Table of Contents
We generally recognize other-than-temporary impairments for securities with declines in
value greater than 50% maintained for six months or greater or with any decline in value maintained for one year or greater. In addition, in making our determinations we continue to analyze the financial condition and near-term prospects of the
issuer, including an assessment of the issuer’s capital position, and consider our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value.    For those securities that have declines in value that are deemed to be only temporary, we make an assertion as
to our ability and intent to retain the security until recovery. Once identified, these securities are restricted from trading unless authorized based upon events that could not have been foreseen at the time we asserted our ability and intent to
retain the security until recovery. Examples of such events include, but are not limited to, the deterioration of the issuer’s creditworthiness, a major business combination or disposition, a change in regulatory requirements, certain other
portfolio actions or other similar events. For those securities that have declines in value for which we cannot assert our ability and intent to retain until recovery, including certain equity securities managed by independent third parties where we
do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions, impairments are recognized as other-than-temporary regardless of the reason for, or the extent of, the decline. For perpetual preferred securities, which have
characteristics of both debt and equity securities, we apply an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities, factoring in the position of the security in the capital structure and the lack of a formal maturity date. For additional
discussion of our policies regarding other-than-temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities, see “—Fixed Maturity Securities—Other-than-Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities” above. 
  When we determine that there is an other-than-temporary
impairment, we record a writedown to estimated fair value, which reduces the cost basis and is included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding
our policies around other-than-temporary impairments for equity securities. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the fair value methodology used for equity securities. 
  Impairments of equity securities attributable to the
Financial Services Businesses were $94 million and $78 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were $18 million and $34 million for years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For a further discussion of impairments, see “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses” above.   
Other Long-Term Investments   
“Other long-term investments” are comprised as follows:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
  
ClosedBlockBusiness
 
  
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
  
ClosedBlockBusiness
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Joint ventures and limited partnerships:
  



  



  



  




 Real estate-related
  
$
360
  
  
$
413
  
  
$
163
  
  
$
361
  

 Non-real estate-related
  
 
1,733
  
  
 
1,284
  
  
 
1,070
  
  
 
1,162
  

 Real estate held through direct ownership(1)
  
 
1,956
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
1,141
  
  
 
1
  

 Other(2)
  
 
432
  
  
 
283
  
  
 
614
  
  
 
58
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other long-term investments
  
$
4,481
  
  
$
1,990
  
  
$
2,988
  
  
$
1,582
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Primarily includes investment in office buildings within our Japanese insurance operations. 


(2)
 
Primarily includes derivatives and member and activity stock held in the Federal Home Loan Banks of New York and Boston. For additional information regarding our
holdings in the Federal Home Loan Banks of New York and Boston, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  223



Table of Contents
Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations 
  The following table sets forth the composition of the
investments held outside the general account in other entities and operations as of the dates indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed Maturities:
  



  




 Public, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
$
2,026
  
  
$
2,046
  

 Private, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
82
  
  
 
75
  

 Other trading account assets, at fair value
  
 
3,124
  
  
 
2,849
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
12
  
  
 
13
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value(1)
  
 
1,318
  
  
 
1,423
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
1,349
  
  
 
1,601
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
2,984
  
  
 
435
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investments
  
$
10,895
  
  
$
8,442
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Book value is generally based on unpaid principal balance net of any allowance for losses, the lower of cost or fair value, or fair value, depending on the loan.
   The table above includes the
invested assets of our trading, banking, and asset management operations. Assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as “Separate account assets” on our balance sheet are not included.
   Fixed Maturity Securities 
  Fixed maturity securities primarily include investments
related to our non-retail banking operations, where customer deposit liabilities are primarily supported by fixed maturity and short-term investments, in addition to cash and cash equivalents.    The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by
industry category attributable to our other entities and operations.    Fixed Maturity Securities—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations   
































 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Lowest Rating Agency Rating
 
  
TotalAmortizedCost

 
  
TotalFairValue

 

 Industry(1)
  
AAA
 
  
AA
 
  
A
 
  
BBB
 
  
BB andbelow
 
  
  

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Residential Mortgage-Backed
  
$
10
  
  
$
979
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
10
  
  
$
1,005
  
  
$
1,048
  

 Asset-Backed Securities
  
 
214
  
  
 
42
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
305
  
  
 
315
  

 Commercial Mortgage-Backed
  
 
123
  
  
 
48
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
192
  
  
 
197
  

 Corporate Securities
  
 
28
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
219
  
  
 
140
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
440
  
  
 
474
  

 U.S. Government
  
 
0
  
  
 
63
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
63
  
  
 
72
  

 State & Municipal
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  

 Foreign Government
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
376
  
  
$
1,185
  
  
$
221
  
  
$
178
  
  
$
47
  
  
$
2,007
  
  
$
2,108
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other
holdings.    The table above includes
the invested assets of our trading, banking, and asset management operations. Assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as “Separate account assets” on our balance sheet are not
included. 
  224



Table of Contents
Other Trading Account Assets 
  Other trading account assets primarily include trading
positions held by our derivatives trading operations used in a non-dealer capacity. The positions maintained by our derivatives trading operations are used to manage interest rate, currency, credit and equity exposures in our insurance, investment
and international businesses, and treasury operations.    Less than $1 million of commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account are classified as other trading account assets as of December 31, 2011, all of which have AAA credit
ratings. An additional $31 million of asset-backed securities held outside the general account as of December 31, 2011 are classified as other trading account assets, and all have AAA credit ratings. 
  Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans 
  Our asset management operations include our commercial
mortgage operations, which provide mortgage origination, asset management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, and government sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration, and Freddie Mac.
Through the third quarter of 2008, we had originated shorter-term interim loans for spread lending that are collateralized by assets generally under renovation or lease up. Due to unfavorable market conditions experienced at that time and the
inherent risk of these loans, we suspended the origination of interim loans. Our interim loans are generally paid off through refinancing or the sale by the borrower of the underlying collateral. These loans are inherently more risky than those
collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the interim loans had an unpaid principal balance of $0.6 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and an allowance for losses or
credit related market value losses totaling $44 million and $168 million, respectively. The weighted average loan-to-value ratio was 93% as of December 31, 2011 and 108% as of December 31, 2010, indicating that, in aggregate, the loan
amount was reduced to below the collateral value during the year, and the weighted average debt service coverage ratio was 1.52 times as of December 31, 2011 and 1.24 times as of December 31, 2010. A stabilized value and projected net
operating income are used in the calculation of the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2011, we also hold $44 million of commercial real estate held for sale related to foreclosed interim loans, which is reported
in “Other long-term investments.” The mortgage loans of our commercial mortgage operations are included in “Commercial mortgage and other loans,” with related derivatives and other hedging instruments primarily included in
“Other trading account assets” and “Other long-term investments.”    Other Long-Term Investments    Other long-term investments primarily include strategic investments made as part of our asset management operations. We make these strategic investments in real estate, as well as fixed income, public
equity and real estate securities, including controlling interests. Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co-investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other strategic investments are made with the intention
to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). As part of our asset management operations we also make loans to our managed funds that
are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds.    Liquidity and Capital Resources    Overview    Liquidity refers to the ability to generate sufficient cash resources to meet the payment obligations of the Company. Capital refers to the long term financial resources available to support the operation
of our businesses, fund business growth, and provide a cushion to withstand adverse circumstances. Our ability to generate and maintain sufficient liquidity and capital depends on the profitability of our businesses, general economic conditions and
our access to the capital markets and the alternate sources of liquidity and capital described herein.   
Management monitors the liquidity of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries on a daily basis and projects borrowing and capital needs
over a multi-year time horizon through our quarterly planning process. We believe that cash flows from the sources of funds presently available to us are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of Prudential Financial and its
subsidiaries, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. 
  225



Table of Contents
We continue to refine our metrics for capital management. These refinements to the current
framework, which is primarily based on statutory risk based capital measures, are designed to more appropriately reflect risks associated with our businesses on a consistent basis across the Company. In addition, we continue to use an economic
capital framework for making certain business decisions.    Similar to our planning and management process for liquidity, we ensure the availability of adequate capital under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios using our “Capital Protection
Framework.” We use our Capital Protection Framework to assess potential capital needs arising from severe market related distress and sources of capital available to us to meet those needs. Potential sources include on-balance sheet capital,
derivatives and other contingent sources of capital.    The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, signed into law on July 21, 2010, could result in the imposition of new capital, liquidity and other requirements on Prudential
Financial and its subsidiaries. See “Business—Regulation” for information regarding the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company.   
Acquisition of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., AIG Edison Life Insurance Company and Related Entities 
  On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition from
American International Group, Inc., or AIG, of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., AIG Edison Life Insurance Company and certain other AIG subsidiaries. The total purchase price was approximately $4,709 million, comprising $4,213 million in cash and
$496 million in the assumption of third-party debt, substantially all of which is expected to be repaid, over time, with excess capital of the acquired entities. To partially fund the acquisition purchase price, in November 2010, Prudential
Financial completed a public offering and sale of 18,348,624 shares of Common Stock and $1.0 billion of medium-term notes, resulting in aggregate proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion. The remainder of the purchase price was funded with
approximately $2.2 billion of cash and short-term investments.   
Sale of the Global Commodities Business to Jefferies Group, Inc. 
  On July 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Global
Commodities Business to Jefferies Group, Inc., or Jefferies, and received cash proceeds of $422 million, which includes a final purchase price true-up of $2 million received post-closing on October 21, 2011. Of the total sale proceeds, $415
million was received by Prudential Securities Group LLC, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance and the former parent company of the Global Commodities’ U.S. and U.K. based entities. The remaining proceeds were received by Pramerica Hong Kong
Holdings Limited, the former parent company of the Bache Hong Kong-based business. In addition, immediately prior to closing, Prudential Bache Commodities, LLC paid a dividend of $112 million to Prudential Securities Group. On September 30,
2011, Prudential Securities Group distributed $500 million to Prudential Insurance.    In the ordinary course of business, Prudential Financial provided guarantees of the obligations of the Global Commodities Business under commodity, financial and foreign exchange futures, swap and forward
contracts. As of December 31, 2011, our exposure under these guarantees was approximately $99 million. We have agreed to keep these guarantees outstanding for a period of 18 months following the closing, including with respect to business
conducted by the transferred entities with beneficiaries of these guarantees subsequent to the closing date. Jefferies has agreed to indemnify us for any amounts payable under the guarantees and, under certain conditions, to provide collateral for
such obligation. In addition, to maintain continuity of funding for the Global Commodities Business, we provided a line of credit to certain of the transferred Global Commodities subsidiaries for a period of 90 days following the closing in an
amount of up to $1 billion. This line of credit was paid off and terminated on September 16, 2011. In February 2012, we provided a $100 million unsecured loan to Jefferies for up to one year to provide funding for a temporary regulatory
requirement relating to a transferred Global Commodities subsidiary.    Sale of Prudential Real Estate and Relocation Services to Brookfield Asset Management, Inc.   
On December 6, 2011, we sold our real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services business to Brookfield Asset Management,
Inc., and received cash proceeds, before transaction related expenses, of $108 
  226



Table of Contents

million. Of the total sale proceeds, $91 million was received by Prudential Financial and the remaining proceeds were received by a related financing subsidiary that the Company continues to own.
This financing subsidiary continues to hold debt and equity investments in a limited number of real estate brokerage franchises. In connection with the sale, we agreed to provide certain Brookfield affiliates with transitional financing for the
transferred relocation services business pursuant to: a six-month receivables purchase facility of up to $250 million; a six-month credit facility of up to $25 million; and a three-year credit facility of up to $155 million. We expect to fund draws
under these credit facilities using cash on hand or proceeds from the alternative sources of liquidity described below. As of December 31, 2011 the amounts drawn under the facilities were $157 million, $15 million and $72 million, respectively.
   Liquidity and Capital Resources of Prudential Financial
   The principal sources of funds available to
Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, are dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries, and cash and short-term investments. These sources of funds may be supplemented by Prudential Financial’s access to
the capital markets and credit facilities, as well as the “—Alternative Sources of Liquidity” described below.   
The primary uses of funds at Prudential Financial include servicing our debt, operating expenses, capital contributions and obligations to
subsidiaries, and the payment of declared shareholder dividends, as well as repurchases of outstanding shares of Common Stock if executed under Board authority.   
As of December 31, 2011, Prudential Financial had cash and short-term investments of $4,944 million, a decrease of $1,728 million
from December 31, 2010, primarily resulting from funding a portion of the purchase price for the Star and Edison Businesses. Included in the cash and short-term investments of Prudential Financial is $1,407 million held in an intercompany
liquidity account that is designed to optimize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and borrowing of funds between Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries on a daily basis. Also included are short-term investments of $1,098 million,
consisting primarily of government agency securities and money market funds.    The following table sets forth Prudential Financial’s principal sources and uses of cash and short-term investments for the period indicated. 
 








 
  
Year EndedDecember 31, 2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Sources:
  




 Dividends and/or returns of capital from subsidiaries(1)
  
$
3,242
  

 Proceeds from the issuance of long-term senior debt, net of repayments
  
 
1,157
  

 Repayment of funding agreements from Prudential Insurance
  
 
468
  

 Proceeds from stock-based compensation and exercise of stock options
  
 
270
  

 Proceeds from sale of real estate and relocation business
  
 
91
  

 Net receipts under intercompany loan agreements(2)
  
 
34
  

 Proceeds from short-term debt, net of repayments
  
 
13
  


  
  
  
 

 Total sources
  
 
5,275
  


  
  
  
 

 Uses:
  




 Capital transactions to fund Star and Edison acquisition
  
 
2,922
  

 Capital contributions to subsidiaries(3)
  
 
1,176
  

 Share repurchases
  
 
999
  

 Shareholder dividends
  
 
704
  

 Net payment under external financing agreement(4)
  
 
244
  

 Repayment of retail medium-term notes
  
 
154
  

 Payment of income taxes
  
 
135
  

 Other, net
  
 
669
  


  
  
  
 

 Total uses
  
 
7,003
  


  
  
  
 

 Net decrease in cash and short-term investments
  
$
1,728
  


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes dividends and/or returns of capital of $1,592 million from Prudential Insurance, $478 million from international insurance and investment subsidiaries, $588
million from Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation, $468 million from asset management subsidiaries and $116 million from other subsidiaries. 
  227



Table of Contents


(2)
 
Includes net repayments of $322 million by Prudential Securities Group (previously supporting the global commodities business), $282 million by Prudential Real Estate
and Relocation, $169 million by our asset management subsidiaries, and $100 million by Prudential Arizona Reinsurance Term Company (previously funding statutory reserves required under Regulation XXX), partially offset by net borrowings of $336
million by Pruco Life Insurance Company. The remainder represents net borrowings by other subsidiaries as well as net activity in our intercompany liquidity account described above. 


(3)
 
Includes capital contributions of $1,005 million to international insurance and investment subsidiaries, $64 million to Pruco Reinsurance, $62 million to asset
management subsidiaries and $45 million to an investment subsidiary. 


(4)
 
Represents payments under the transitional financing arrangements provided in connection with the sale of the real estate brokerage franchise and relocation business.
   In June 2011, Prudential
Financial’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase at management’s discretion up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock through June 2012. As of December 31, 2011, 19.8 million shares of our common stock
were repurchased under this authorization at a total cost of $999.5 million. The timing and amount of any additional share repurchases will be determined by management based on market conditions and other considerations. Repurchases may be effected
in the open market, through derivative, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Exchange Act. Numerous factors could affect the timing and amount of any future
repurchases under the share repurchase program, including increased capital needs of our businesses due to opportunities for growth and acquisitions, as well as adverse market conditions.    On November 8, 2011, Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors declared an annual dividend for 2011
of $1.45 per share of Common Stock, representing an increase of approximately 26 percent from the 2010 Common Stock dividend. The table below presents declaration, record, and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for
the Common Stock dividend for the last five years.   
















 
  
 
  
 
  
Dividend Amount
 

 Declaration Date
  
 Record Date
  
 Payment Date
  
    Per Share    
 
  
    Aggregate    
 

 
  
 
  
 
  
(in millions, except per share data)
 

November 8, 2011
  
November 22, 2011
  
December 16, 2011
  
$
1.45
  
  
$
689
  

November 9, 2010
  
November 23, 2010
  
December 17, 2010
  
$
1.15
  
  
$
564
  

November 10, 2009
  
November 24, 2009
  
December 18, 2009
  
$
0.70
  
  
$
327
  

November 11, 2008
  
November 24, 2008
  
December 19, 2008
  
$
0.58
  
  
$
246
  

November 13, 2007
  
November 26, 2007
  
December 21, 2007
  
$
1.15
  
  
$
521
  
   The primary components of
capitalization for the Financial Services Businesses consist of the equity we attribute to the Financial Services Businesses (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and
pension/postretirement benefits), outstanding junior subordinated debt and outstanding capital debt of the Financial Services Businesses. Capital debt consists of borrowings that are used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of
Prudential Financial, as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial and subsidiary borrowings utilized for capital requirements. As shown in the table below, as of
December 31, 2011, the Financial Services Businesses had $42.9 billion in capital, all of which was available to support the aggregate capital requirements of its three divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. Based on our assessment
of these businesses and operations, we believe this level of capital was consistent with the “AA” ratings targets of our regulated operating entities as of December 31, 2011. 
 








 
  
December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Attributed equity (excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits)
  
$
31,657
  

 Junior subordinated debt (i.e. hybrid securities)
  
 
1,519
  

 Capital debt
  
 
9,705
  


  
  
  
 

 Total capital
  
$
42,881
  


  
  
  
 
   We seek to capitalize all of
our subsidiaries and businesses in accordance with their ratings targets, and we believe Prudential Financial’s capitalization and use of financial leverage are consistent with those ratings targets. Management uses the ratio of capital debt to
total capital (as such amounts are reflected in the table 
  228



Table of Contents

above) as a primary measure of the use of financial leverage. As of December 31, 2011, our capital debt to total capital ratio was 25.3%. The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated
debt have certain features that result in their treatment as hybrid securities by the rating agencies. As a result, for purposes of calculating the capital debt to total capital ratio, 25% of our outstanding junior subordinated debt is treated as
equity and the remaining 75% is treated as capital debt, based on Moody’s current criteria for these types of hybrid securities. As discussed under “—Accounting Policies & Pronouncements—Future Adoption of New Accounting
Pronouncements,” the Company adopted amended authoritative guidance regarding the deferral of costs relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts effective January 1, 2012, and will apply retrospective method of
adoption. We estimate that if the new guidance were adopted as of December 31, 2011, retrospective adoption would reduce total equity by approximately $2.6 billion to $3.0 billion for the Financial Services Businesses and approximately $0.1
billion for the Closed Block Business, resulting in a capital debt to total capital ratio of approximately 27% as of December 31, 2011.   
Our long-term senior debt rating targets for Prudential Financial are “A” for Standard & Poor’s Rating Services,
or S&P, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or Moody’s, and Fitch Ratings Ltd., or Fitch, and “a” for A.M. Best Company, or A.M. Best. Our financial strength rating targets for our domestic life insurance companies are
“AA/Aa/AA” for S&P, Moody’s and Fitch, respectively, and “A+” for A.M. Best. Currently, some of our ratings are below these targets. For a description of material rating actions that have occurred from the beginning of
2011 through the date of this filing and a discussion of the potential impacts of ratings downgrades, see “—Ratings.”   
Restrictions on Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries 
  Our insurance and various other companies are subject to
regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and other transfers of funds to affiliates. With respect to Prudential Insurance, New Jersey insurance law provides that, except in the case of extraordinary dividends (as described below), all
dividends or other distributions paid by Prudential Insurance may be paid only from unassigned surplus, as determined pursuant to statutory accounting principles, less unrealized investment gains and losses and revaluation of assets as of the prior
calendar year-end. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Prudential Insurance’s unassigned surplus was $5,070 million and $4,224 million, respectively, and it recorded applicable adjustments for cumulative unrealized investment gains of $2,184
million and $1,499 million, respectively. Prudential Insurance must give prior notification to the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, or NJDOBI, or the Department, of its intent to pay any dividend or distribution. Also, if any
dividend, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the prior calendar year’s statutory surplus or (ii) the prior calendar year’s statutory net gain
from operations excluding realized investment gains and losses, the dividend is considered to be an “extraordinary dividend” and the prior approval of the Department is required for payment of the dividend. Prudential Insurance’s
statutory surplus as of December 31, 2011 was $8,160 million and its statutory net gain from operations, excluding realized investment gains and losses, for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $584 million. In addition to the regulatory
limitations, the terms of the IHC debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by Prudential Insurance applicable to the Financial Services Businesses in the event the Closed Block Business is in financial distress and under certain
other circumstances. The laws regulating dividends of the other states and foreign jurisdictions where our other insurance companies are domiciled are similar, but not identical, to New Jersey’s. 
  On May 16, 2011, Prudential Insurance paid an ordinary
dividend of $527 million and an extraordinary dividend of $704 million to its parent, Prudential Holdings, LLC. From this amount, Prudential Holdings paid dividends to Prudential Financial of $1,073 million in May 2011 and $19 million in December
2011. On November 18, 2011, Prudential Insurance paid an additional extraordinary dividend of $500 million to Prudential Holdings, all of which was ultimately paid to Prudential Financial. Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation paid a
$270 million extraordinary dividend on June 30, 2011 and a $318 million ordinary dividend on November 30, 2011, in each case to Prudential Financial. On December 2, 2011, Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company paid an
ordinary dividend of $270 million and an extraordinary dividend of $105 million to its parent, Prudential Insurance.   
On September 20, 2011, Prudential of Japan paid a dividend of ¥16 billion, or $208 million, to its parent, Prudential Holdings of
Japan, of which $190 million was ultimately paid to Prudential Financial. 
  229



Table of Contents
As a result of Gibraltar Life’s reorganization in 2001, in addition to regulatory
requirements, certain other restrictions precluded Gibraltar Life from paying common stock dividends to Prudential Financial. We anticipate that following the merger of Gibraltar, Star and Edison, the merged entity will be able to pay common stock
dividends to Prudential Financial, subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. However, we do not anticipate receiving dividends from the merged entity for several years as it may return capital to Prudential Financial through other means, such as
the repayment of subordinated debt or preferred stock obligations held by Prudential Financial or other affiliates. In August 2011, Gibraltar Life repaid ¥24 billion, or $313 million, of subordinated debt held by an intermediate holding company,
of which $119 million was used to repay a loan from Prudential Insurance and the remainder was paid to Prudential Financial.   
The ability of our asset management subsidiaries and the majority of our other operating subsidiaries to pay dividends is largely
unrestricted from a regulatory standpoint but can be affected by market conditions and other factors.   
See “Liquidity and Capital Resources of Our Subsidiaries” below for additional details on the liquidity of our domestic
insurance subsidiaries, international insurance subsidiaries and asset management subsidiaries.    Alternative Sources of Liquidity    Prudential Financial maintains an intercompany liquidity account that is designed to optimize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and borrowing of funds between Prudential Financial and its
affiliates on a daily basis. Depending on the overall availability of cash, Prudential Financial invests excess cash on a short-term basis or borrows funds in the capital markets. Additional longer term liquidity is available through inter-affiliate
borrowing arrangements. Prudential Financial and certain of its subsidiaries also have access to bank facilities, as discussed under “—Credit Facilities,” as well as the alternative sources of liquidity described below. 
  Commercial Paper Programs 
  Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding, LLC, or
Prudential Funding, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, have commercial paper programs with an authorized issuance capacity of $3.0 billion and $7.0 billion, respectively. Prudential Financial commercial paper borrowings generally
have been used to fund the working capital needs of our subsidiaries. Prudential Funding commercial paper borrowings have generally served as an additional source of financing to meet the working capital needs of Prudential Insurance and its
subsidiaries. Prudential Funding also lends to other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial up to limits agreed with the NJDOBI.   
While we continue to consider commercial paper one of our alternative sources of liquidity due to the low cost and efficient financing it
provides, over the past several years we have significantly reduced our reliance on commercial paper to fund our operations, and have developed plans that would enable us to further reduce, or if necessary eliminate, our commercial paper borrowings
by accessing other sources of liquidity.    The
following table sets forth Prudential Financial’s and Prudential Funding’s outstanding commercial paper borrowings as of the dates indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Prudential Financial
  
$
296
  
  
$
283
  

 Prudential Funding
  
 
870
  
  
 
874
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total outstanding commercial paper borrowings(1)(2)
  
$
1,166
  
  
$
1,157
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Portion of above borrowings that were due overnight
  
$
545
  
  
$
309
  

 Weighted average maturity of outstanding commercial paper, in days
  
 
21
  
  
 
34
  
  


(1)
 
The daily average commercial paper outstanding under these programs during 2011 and 2010 was $1,368 million and $1,208 million, respectively. 


(2)
 
The weighted average interest rate on borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 0.37 % and 0.42%, respectively, for Prudential Financial
and 0.20 % and 0.31%, respectively, for Prudential Funding. 
  230



Table of Contents
Prudential Funding maintains a support agreement with Prudential Insurance whereby
Prudential Insurance has agreed to maintain Prudential Funding’s positive tangible net worth at all times. Prudential Financial has also issued a subordinated guarantee covering Prudential Funding’s commercial paper program. 
  As of December 31, 2011, Prudential Financial and
Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $3.75 billion. These facilities can be used as backup liquidity for our commercial paper programs or for other general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding borrowings under
these facilities as of December 31, 2011 or as of the date of this filing. For a further description of these lines of credit, see “—Credit Facilities.” 
  Asset-based Financing 
  We conduct asset-based or secured financing within our
insurance and other subsidiaries, including transactions such as securities lending, repurchase agreements and mortgage dollar rolls, in order to earn spread income, to borrow funds, or to facilitate trading activity. These programs are driven by
portfolio holdings of securities that are lendable based on counterparty demand for these securities in the marketplace. The collateral received in connection with these programs is primarily used to purchase securities in the short-term spread
portfolios of our domestic insurance entities. Investments held in the short-term spread portfolios include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and fixed maturities, including mortgage- and asset-backed securities, with a weighted
average life at time of purchase of two years or less. A portion of the asset-backed securities held in our short-term spread portfolios, including our enhanced short-term portfolio, are collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Floating rate assets
comprise the majority of our short-term spread portfolio. See “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—General Account Investments—Fixed Maturity Securities” for a further discussion of our
asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime holdings, including details regarding those securities held in our enhanced short-term portfolio. These short-term portfolios are subject to specific investment policy statements, which among other
things, do not allow for significant asset/liability interest rate duration mismatch.    The following table sets forth our liabilities under asset-based or secured financing programs attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated.
  




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
  
ClosedBlockBusiness
 
  
Consolidated
 
  
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
  
ClosedBlockBusiness
 
  
Consolidated
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
$
3,118
  
  
$
3,100
  
  
$
6,218
  
  
$
2,557
  
  
$
3,328
  
  
$
5,885
  

 Cash collateral for loaned securities
  
 
2,254
  
  
 
719
  
  
 
2,973
  
  
 
1,614
  
  
 
557
  
  
 
2,171
  

 Securities sold but not yet purchased
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total(1)
  
$
5,377
  
  
$
3,819
  
  
$
9,196
  
  
$
4,172
  
  
$
3,885
  
  
$
8,057
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Portion of above securities that may be returned to the Company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash
collateral
  
$
3,438
  
  
$
2,012
  
  
$
5,450
  
  
$
2,581
  
  
$
2,446
  
  
$
5,027
  

 Weighted average maturity, in days(2)
  
 
62
  
  
 
72
  
  



  
 
14
  
  
 
24
  
  



  


(1)
 
The daily weighted average outstanding during 2011 and 2010 was $4,651 million and $4,678 million, respectively, for the Financial Services Businesses and $4,301
million and $3,969 million, respectively, for the Closed Block Business. 


(2)
 
Excludes securities that may be returned to the Company overnight. 
  In addition, as of December 31, 2011, our Closed Block
Business had outstanding mortgage dollar rolls under which we are committed to repurchase $860 million of mortgage-backed securities, or “to be announced” (“TBA”) forward contracts. These repurchase agreements do not qualify as
secured borrowings and are accounted for as derivatives. These mortgage-backed securities are considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. 
  As of December 31, 2011, our domestic insurance entities
had assets eligible for the securities lending program of $81.4 billion, of which $8.9 billion were on loan. Taking into account market conditions and 
  231



Table of Contents

outstanding loan balances as of December 31, 2011, we believe approximately $28.3 billion of the remaining eligible assets are readily lendable, of which approximately $19.0 billion relates
to the Financial Services Businesses; however, these amounts are subject to potential regulatory constraints and to changes in market conditions.   
As referenced above, these programs are typically limited to securities in demand that can be loaned at relatively low financing rates. As
such, we believe there is unused capacity available through these programs. Holdings of cash and cash equivalent investments in these short-term spread portfolios allow for further flexibility in sizing the portfolio to better match available
financing. Current conditions in both the financing and investment markets are continuously monitored in order to appropriately manage the cost of funds, investment spreads, asset/liability duration matching and liquidity. 
  Federal Home Loan Bank of New York 
  Prudential Insurance is a member of the Federal Home Loan
Bank of New York, or FHLBNY. Membership allows Prudential Insurance access to the FHLBNY’s financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an
alternative source of liquidity. FHLBNY borrowings and funding agreements are collateralized by qualifying mortgage-related assets or U.S. Treasury securities, the fair value of which must be maintained at certain specified levels relative to
outstanding borrowings, depending on the type of asset pledged. FHLBNY membership requires Prudential Insurance to own member stock, and borrowings require the purchase of activity-based stock in an amount equal to 4.5% of outstanding borrowings.
Under FHLBNY guidelines, if Prudential Insurance’s financial strength ratings decline below A/A2/A Stable by S&P/Moody’s/Fitch, respectively, and the FHLBNY does not receive written assurances from NJDOBI regarding Prudential
Insurance’s solvency, new borrowings from the FHLBNY would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. Currently there are no restrictions on the term of borrowings from the FHLBNY.    NJDOBI permits Prudential Insurance to pledge collateral to the FHLBNY in an amount of up to 5% of its prior
year-end statutory net admitted assets, excluding separate account assets. Based on Prudential Insurance’s statutory net admitted assets as of December 31, 2010, the 5% limitation equates to a maximum amount of pledged assets of $7.4
billion and an estimated maximum borrowing capacity (after taking into account required collateralization levels and purchases of activity-based stock) of approximately $6.1 billion. Nevertheless, FHLBNY borrowings are subject to the FHLBNY’s
discretion and to the availability of qualifying assets at Prudential Insurance.    As of December 31, 2011, we had pledged qualifying assets with a fair value of $2.8 billion, which supported outstanding collateralized advances of $0.9 billion and collateralized funding agreements
of $1.5 billion. The fair value of qualifying assets that were available to Prudential Insurance but not pledged amounted to $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2011. 
  As of December 31, 2011, $199 million of the FHLBNY
outstanding advances is reflected in “Short-term debt” and matures in December 2012 and the remaining $725 million is in “Long-term debt” and matures in December 2015. As of December 31, 2011, $650 million of these proceeds
were used to support the operating needs of our businesses and $274 million were used to purchase investments, including the FHLBNY activity-based stock. The funding agreements issued to the FHLBNY, which are reflected in “Policyholders’
account balances,” have priority claim status above debt holders of Prudential Insurance. These funding agreements currently serve as a substitute funding source for a product of our Retirement segment, which earns investment spread that was
previously funded by retail medium-term notes issued by Prudential Financial.    Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston    Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company, or PRIAC, is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, or FHLBB. Membership allows PRIAC access to collateralized advances which will be
classified in “Short-term debt” or “Long-term debt,” depending on the maturity date of the obligation. PRIAC’s membership in FHLBB requires the ownership of member stock, and borrowings from FHLBB require the

  232



Table of Contents

purchase of activity-based stock in an amount between 3.0% and 4.5% of outstanding borrowings, depending on the maturity date of the obligation. As of December 31, 2011, PRIAC had no
advances outstanding under the FHLBB facility.   
The Connecticut Department of Insurance, or CTDOI, permits PRIAC to pledge up to $2.6 billion in qualifying assets to secure FHLBB
borrowings through December 31, 2011. PRIAC must seek re-approval from CTDOI prior to borrowing additional funds after that date. Based on available eligible assets as of December 31, 2011, PRIAC had an estimated maximum borrowing
capacity, after taking into consideration required collateralization levels and required purchases of activity-based FHLBB stock, of approximately $1.2 billion.   
Liquidity and Capital Resources of Our Subsidiaries   
Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries   
General Liquidity   
We manage the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations to ensure stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of cash flows to meet
all of our obligations. Liquidity is provided by a variety of sources, as described more fully below, including portfolios of liquid assets. The investment portfolios of our domestic operations are integral to the overall liquidity of those
operations. We segment our investment portfolios and employ an asset/liability management approach specific to the requirements of our product lines. This enhances the discipline applied in managing the liquidity, as well as the interest rate and
credit risk profiles, of each portfolio in a manner consistent with the unique characteristics of the product liabilities. We use a projection process for cash flows from operations to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet projected cash
outflows, including claims. The impact of Prudential Funding’s financing capacity on liquidity, as discussed more fully under “—Alternative Sources of Liquidity,” is considered in the internal liquidity measures of the domestic
insurance operations.    Liquidity is measured
against internally-developed benchmarks that take into account the characteristics of both the asset portfolio and the liabilities that they support. The results are affected substantially by the overall asset type and quality of our investments.
   Cash Flow 
  The principal sources of liquidity for Prudential Insurance
and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries are premiums and certain annuity considerations, investment and fee income, and investment maturities and sales associated with our insurance and annuity operations, as well as internal and external
borrowings. The principal uses of that liquidity include benefits, claims, dividends paid to policyholders, and payments to policyholders and contractholders in connection with surrenders, withdrawals and net policy loan activity. Other uses of
liquidity include commissions, general and administrative expenses, purchases of investments, and payments in connection with financing activities.   
We believe that the cash flows from our insurance and annuity operations are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of
these operations, including under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. The continued adequacy of this liquidity will depend upon factors such as future securities market conditions, changes in interest rate levels, policyholder perceptions of
our financial strength, and the relative safety of competing products, each of which could lead to reduced cash inflows or increased cash outflows. In addition, market volatility can impact the level of capital required to support our businesses,
particularly in our annuity business. Our domestic insurance operations’ cash flows from investment activities result from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income, net of amounts
reinvested. The primary liquidity risks with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors or bond insurers, our counterparties’ willingness to extend repurchase and/or securities lending arrangements, commitments to invest and
market volatility. We closely manage these risks through our credit risk management process and regular monitoring of our liquidity position.   
In managing the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations, we also consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals
of funds earlier than our assumptions when selecting assets to support these 
  233



Table of Contents

contractual obligations. We use surrender charges and other contract provisions to mitigate the extent, timing and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers from annuity contracts
and deposit liabilities. The following table sets forth withdrawal characteristics of our general account annuity reserves and deposit liabilities (based on statutory liability values) as of the dates indicated. 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
% of Total
 
 
Amount
 
  
% of Total
 

 
  
($ in millions)
 

 Not subject to discretionary withdrawal provisions
  
$
38,896
  
  
 
47
% 
 
$
37,505
  
  
 
47
% 

 Subject to discretionary withdrawal, with adjustment:
  



  



 



  




 With market value adjustment
  
 
22,211
  
  
 
27
  
 
 
21,105
  
  
 
26
  

 At market value
  
 
2,208
  
  
 
3
  
 
 
1,876
  
  
 
2
  

 At contract value, less surrender charge of 5% or more
  
 
2,036
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
2,471
  
  
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
65,351
  
  
 
79
  
 
 
62,957
  
  
 
78
  

 Subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value with no surrender charge or surrender charge of less than
5%
  
 
17,760
  
  
 
21
  
 
 
17,404
  
  
 
22
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total annuity reserves and deposit liabilities
  
$
83,111
  
  
 
100
% 
 
$
80,361
  
  
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Individual life insurance
policies are less susceptible to withdrawal than our annuity reserves and deposit liabilities because policyholders may incur surrender charges and be subject to a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. Our annuity
reserves with guarantee features may be less susceptible to withdrawal than historical experience indicates, due to the perceived value of these guarantee features to policyholders as a result of market declines in recent years. Annuity benefits and
guaranteed investment withdrawals under group annuity contracts are generally not subject to early withdrawal. Gross account withdrawals for our domestic insurance operations’ products were consistent with our assumptions in asset/liability
management, and the associated cash outflows did not have a material adverse impact on our overall liquidity.   
Liquid Assets   
Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, fixed maturities that are not designated as held-to-maturity and
public equity securities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our domestic insurance operations had liquid assets of $144.8 billion and $138.5 billion, respectively, which includes a portion financed with asset-based financing. The portion of
liquid assets comprised of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments was $6.6 billion and $5.8 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, $124.6 billion, or 92.4%, of the fixed maturity
investments that are not designated as held-to-maturity within our domestic insurance company general account portfolios were considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. The remaining $10.3 billion, or 7.6%, of these fixed
maturity investments were considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal
liquidity measures to evaluate the adequacy of our domestic insurance operations’ liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We believe that the liquidity profile of our assets is sufficient to satisfy current liquidity requirements,
including under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios.    Given the size and liquidity profile of our investment portfolios, we believe that claim experience varying from our projections does not constitute a significant liquidity risk. Our asset/liability
management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and expected claim payments as well as the specific nature and risk profile of the liabilities. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected
maturities of our investments and the payment of claims.    Our domestic insurance companies’ liquidity is managed through access to substantial investment portfolios as well as a variety of instruments available for funding and/or managing cash flow
mismatches, including from time to time those arising from claim levels in excess of projections. To the extent we need to pay claims in excess of projections, we may borrow temporarily or sell investments sooner than anticipated to pay these
claims, which may result in increased borrowing costs or realized investment gains or losses affecting results of operations. For a further discussion of realized investment gains and losses, see “—Realized Investment Gains

  234



Table of Contents

and Losses and General Account Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.” We believe that borrowing temporarily or selling investments earlier than anticipated will not have a
material impact on the liquidity of our domestic insurance companies. Payment of claims and sale of investments earlier than anticipated would have an impact on the reported level of cash flow from operating, investing, and financing activities,
respectively, in our financial statements. Instead of selling investments at depressed market prices externally, in order to preserve economic value (including tax attributes), we may also sell investments from one subsidiary to another at fair
market value or transfer investments internally between businesses within the same subsidiary, subject to applicable regulatory constraints.   
Capital   
The Risk Based Capital, or RBC, ratio is a primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of Prudential Insurance and our other
domestic life insurance subsidiaries, which includes businesses in both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. We manage Prudential Insurance’s and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries’ RBC ratios to a
level consistent with their ratings targets. RBC is determined by statutory guidelines and formulas that consider, among other things, risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance-related risks associated with an
insurer’s products and liabilities, interest rate risks and general business risks. The RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory capitalization. As of
December 31, 2011, the RBC ratio for Prudential Insurance was approximately 490%, which exceeded the minimum levels required by applicable insurance regulations. In addition, all of our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries have RBC ratios
that exceed the minimum level required by applicable insurance regulations. The reporting of RBC measures is not intended for the purpose of ranking any insurance company or for use in connection with any marketing, advertising or promotional
activities.    The level of statutory capital of our
domestic life insurance subsidiaries can be materially impacted by interest rate and equity market fluctuations, changes in the values of derivatives, the level of impairments recorded and credit quality migration of the investment portfolio, among
other items. Further, the recapture of business subject to reinsurance arrangements due to defaults by, or credit quality migration affecting, the reinsurers could result in higher required statutory capital levels. The level of statutory capital of
our domestic life insurance subsidiaries is also affected by statutory accounting rules, which are subject to change by insurance regulators.   
During 2010, as part of our Capital Protection Framework, we developed a broad view of the impact of market distress on the statutory
capital of the Company. Beginning in the second quarter of 2010, we have entered into equity index-linked derivative transactions that are designed to mitigate the impact of a severe equity market stress event on statutory capital. The program
focuses on tail risk to protect our capital in a cost-effective manner under stress scenarios. We assess the composition of our hedging program on an ongoing basis, and we may change it from time to time based on our evaluation of the Company’s
risk position or other factors.    In addition to
hedging equity market exposure, we also manage certain risks associated with our variable annuity products through our hedging programs. In our living benefits hedging program, we purchase interest rate derivatives and equity options and futures to
hedge certain optional living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives against changes in certain capital market assumptions such as interest rates, equity markets and market volatility. Prior to the third quarter of 2010, our hedging
strategy sought to generally match certain capital market sensitivities of the embedded derivative liability as defined by U.S. GAAP, excluding the impact of the market-perceived risk of our own non-performance, with capital market derivatives. In
the third quarter of 2010, we revised our hedging strategy as, in a low interest rate environment, we do not believe that the U.S. GAAP value of the embedded derivative liability is an appropriate measure for determining the hedge target. Our new
hedge target is grounded in a U.S. GAAP/capital markets valuation framework but incorporates two modifications to the U.S. GAAP valuation assumptions. We add a credit spread to the U.S. GAAP risk-free rate of return assumption used to estimate
future growth of bond investments in the customer separate account funds to account for the fact that the underlying customer separate account funds, which support these living benefits, are invested in assets that contain risk. We also adjust our
volatility assumptions to remove certain risk margins embedded in the valuation technique used to fair value the embedded derivative liability under U.S. GAAP, as we believe the increase in the liability driven by these margins is temporary and does
not reflect the economic 
  235



Table of Contents

value of the liability. We evaluate hedge levels versus our hedge target based on the overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing market conditions. The U.S. GAAP/capital markets
valuation framework underlying our hedge target assumes that current interest rate levels remain unchanged for the full projection period with no reversion to longer term averages. Due to the recent low interest rate environment, we decided to
temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition to be consistent with our long-term economic view. Because the hedging decision was based on the overall capital considerations of the Company, the corresponding impact on
results is reported within Corporate and Other operations. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, “Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments” within Corporate and Other operations includes a pre-tax
loss of $1,662 million and a pre-tax gain of $306 million, respectively, resulting from our decision to temporarily hedge to a different target and the decline in interest rates during the year. Through our Capital Protection Framework, we have
access to on-balance sheet capital and contingent sources of capital that is available to meet capital needs arising from activities such as the after-tax realized investment losses incurred in 2011 from our living benefits hedging program,
including our decision to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. For a full discussion of the results of our living benefits hedging program, see “—Results of Operations for Financial Services
Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.”   
We reinsure variable annuity living benefit guarantees from certain of our life insurance companies to a captive reinsurance company,
Pruco Reinsurance, Ltd. (“Pruco Re”). The variable annuity living benefit hedging program described above is primarily executed within Pruco Re. Effective as of July 1, 2011, Pruco Re re-domiciled from Bermuda to Arizona. As a result,
beginning in the third quarter of 2011, our Arizona domiciled life insurance company, Pruco Life Insurance Company, is able to claim reinsurance reserve credit for business ceded to Pruco Re without any need for Pruco Re to collateralize its
obligations under the reinsurance arrangement. However, for business ceded to Pruco Re by Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation (“PALAC”) and Pruco Life Insurance Company of New Jersey (“PLNJ”), we must continue to
collateralize Pruco Re’s obligations under the reinsurance arrangement in order for PALAC and PLNJ to claim reinsurance reserve credit for their business ceded. We satisfy this requirement by depositing assets into statutory reserve credit
trusts for Pruco Re. Funding needs for the statutory reserve credit trusts are separate and distinct from the capital needs of the captive reinsurance company. However, assets pledged to the statutory reserve credit trusts may include assets
supporting the capital of the captive reinsurance company provided that they meet eligibility requirements prescribed by the relevant insurance regulators.   
Reinsurance credit reserve requirements can move materially in either direction due to changes in equity markets and interest rates,
actuarial assumptions and other factors. Higher reinsurance credit reserve requirements would necessitate depositing additional assets in the statutory reserve credit trusts, while lower reinsurance credit reserve requirements would allow assets to
be removed from the statutory reserve credit trusts. Lower interest rates in 2011 led to an increase in our need to fund the captive reinsurance trusts by an amount of $569 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily relating to
business sold by PALAC and PLNJ. We satisfied the overall increase in funding requirements in 2011 with available cash and by re-hypothecating assets into the trust that were otherwise pledged by our affiliates under hedging positions related to our
living benefit features.    In October 2011, we
established a new reinsurance arrangement with our captive reinsurance company domiciled in New Jersey, whereby the New Jersey captive reinsures 90% of the short-term risks under the policies in Prudential Insurance’s Closed Block. These
short-term risks represent the impact of variations in experience of the Closed Block that are expected to be recovered over time as a result of corresponding adjustments to policyholder dividends. The new reinsurance arrangement is intended to
alleviate the short-term surplus volatility within Prudential Insurance resulting from the Closed Block, including volatility caused by the impact of any unrealized mark-to-market losses or realized credit losses within the investment portfolio of
the Closed Block.    In connection with the new
Closed Block reinsurance arrangement, we entered into a $2 billion letter of credit facility with certain financial institutions, pursuant to which the New Jersey captive can obtain a letter of credit during a 3-year availability period to support
its funding obligations under the reinsurance arrangement. Prudential Financial guarantees all obligations of the New Jersey captive under the facility, including its obligation to reimburse any draws made under the letter of credit. Because
experience of the Closed Block is ultimately 
  236



Table of Contents

passed along to policyholders over time through the annual policyholder dividend, we believe that any draw under the letter of credit is unlikely. Our ability to obtain a letter of credit under
the facility is subject to the continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including the maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed
under New Jersey law and Prudential Financial’s maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $19.0 billion, based on U.S. GAAP stockholders’ equity, excluding “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” 
  International Insurance and Investments Subsidiaries
   On February 1, 2011, we completed
our acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses. Gibraltar Life and Prudential of Japan each contributed $400 million to payment of the acquisition purchase price, with the remaining funding provided by Prudential Financial and other subsidiaries.
Although these contributions reduced local solvency margin ratios in Gibraltar and Prudential of Japan, the solvency margins for these companies remain in excess of our targets. The contributions did not materially impact Gibraltar Life’s or
Prudential of Japan’s liquidity as their investment portfolios were positioned to provide the funding.   
Star and Edison solvency margin ratios at acquisition were in excess of our solvency margin targets and will continue to be managed to
capitalization levels consistent with our “AA” ratings targets. We believe the liquidity profiles of Star and Edison are sufficient to meet their obligations, including under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. Since completing the
acquisition, we have further enhanced the capital profile of Star and Edison by repositioning their asset portfolios to reduce risk and establish an asset profile similar to Gibraltar’s. We substantially completed this repositioning by year-end
2011.    Effective January 1, 2012, the Star
and Edison entities merged with Gibraltar Life. We believe the solvency margin ratio of the merged entity will continue to be in excess of our solvency margin targets. 
  In our international insurance operations, liquidity is
provided through operating cash flows from ongoing operations as well as portfolios of liquid assets. In managing the liquidity and the interest rate and credit risk profiles of our international insurance portfolios, we employ a discipline similar
to the discipline employed for domestic insurance subsidiaries. We monitor liquidity through the use of internal liquidity measures, taking into account the liquidity of the asset portfolios. We also consider attributes of the various categories of
liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity measures to evaluate the adequacy of our international insurance operations’ liquidity under stress scenarios. We believe that ongoing operations
and the liquidity profile of our international insurance assets provide sufficient liquidity under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios.   
The following table sets forth our international insurance subsidiaries portfolio of liquid assets, including cash and short-term
investments, and fixed maturity investments, other than those designated as held-to-maturity, by NAIC or equivalent rating as of the dates indicated.   




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
 
 

 
  
Prudentialof Japan
 
  
GibraltarLife
 
  
Star andEdisonBusinesses
 
  
AllOther(1)
 
  
Total
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 
  
(in billions)
 

 Cash and short-term investments
  
$
1.1
  
  
$
2.4
  
  
$
1.7
  
  
$
0.2
  
  
$
5.4
  
  
$
2.7
  

 Fixed maturity investments:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 High or highest quality(2)
  
 
28.8
  
  
 
43.3
  
  
 
39.5
  
  
 
8.4
  
  
 
120.0
  
  
 
68.2
  

 Other than high or highest quality
  
 
0.3
  
  
 
0.8
  
  
 
0.8
  
  
 
0.1
  
  
 
2.0
  
  
 
1.0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
29.1
  
  
 
44.1
  
  
 
40.3
  
  
 
8.5
  
  
 
122.0
  
  
 
69.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
30.2
  
  
$
46.5
  
  
$
42.0
  
  
$
8.7
  
  
$
127.4
  
  
$
71.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Represents our international insurance operations, excluding Japan. 


(2)
 
Of the $120 billion of fixed maturity investments that are not designated as held-to-maturity and considered high or highest quality as of December 31, 2011, $77.5
billion, or 65%, were invested in government or government agency bonds. 
  237



Table of Contents
As with our domestic operations, in managing the liquidity of these operations, we consider
the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. The following table sets forth the total general account insurance-related liabilities (other
than dividends payable to policyholders) of our international insurance subsidiaries, as of the dates indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in billions)
 

 Prudential of Japan(1)
  
$
36.6
  
  
$
32.2
  

 Gibraltar Life
  
 
51.9
  
  
 
42.1
  

 Star and Edison Businesses
  
 
44.7
  
  
 
0.0
  

 All other international insurance subsidiaries(2)
  
 
8.6
  
  
 
10.1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total general account insurance-related liabilities (other than dividends payable to policyholders)
  
$
141.8
  
  
$
84.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $4.5 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, of the insurance-related liabilities for Prudential of Japan are associated with
U.S. dollar-denominated products that are coinsured to our U.S. domiciled insurance operations and supported by U.S. dollar-denominated assets. 


(2)
 
Represents our international insurance operations, excluding Japan. 
  Our Japanese operations did not have a material amount of
general account annuity reserves or deposit liabilities subject to discretionary withdrawal as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Additionally, we believe that the individual life insurance policies sold by our Japanese operations do not have
significant withdrawal risk because policyholders may incur surrender charges and must undergo a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. 
  Similar to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance
regulators, regulatory authorities in the international jurisdictions in which we operate generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies. All of our international insurance subsidiaries have solvency
margins in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable regulatory authorities. These solvency margins are also a primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of our international insurance operations. We manage these
solvency margins to a capitalization level consistent with our “AA” ratings target. Maintenance of our solvency ratios at certain levels is also important to our competitive positioning, as in certain jurisdictions, such as Japan, these
solvency margins are required to be disclosed to the public and therefore impact the public perception of an insurer’s financial strength.   
The Financial Services Agency, the insurance regulator in Japan, has implemented revisions to the solvency margin requirements that will
revise risk charges for certain assets and change the manner in which an insurance company’s core capital is calculated. These changes will be effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012. The following table depicts the solvency
margins of our Japanese insurance subsidiaries under the old method as of March 31, 2011 and 2010 and under the new method as of March 31, 2011.   
















 
  
“New Method”
 
 
“Old Method”
 

 
  
March 31,2011
 
 
March 31,2011
 
 
March 31,2010
 

 Prudential of Japan
  
 
703
% 
 
 
1,134
% 
 
 
1,263
% 

 Gibraltar Life
  
 
657
% 
 
 
1,120
% 
 
 
1,136
% 

 Star
  
 
979
% 
 
 
1,779
% 
 
 
N/A
  

 Edison
  
 
771
% 
 
 
1,363
% 
 
 
N/A
  
   We believe that the solvency
margins of our Japanese insurance subsidiaries, under the new method, will continue to satisfy regulatory and other requirements and will not negatively impact our competitive positioning. The capital requirements in Korea and Taiwan are also
undergoing change. Korean insurance regulators have refined their RBC calculation effective June 2011 with the most significant change related to the interest rate risk charge. The RBC ratio for Prudential of Korea, or POK, will be lower under the
new calculation reflective of the long duration of its liabilities and high policy persistency. Nevertheless, we expect that POK’s RBC ratio under the new calculation will remain one of the highest in the industry and will continue to exceed a
level consistent 
  238



Table of Contents

with our “AA” ratings target. Additionally, Taiwanese regulators recently made slight refinements to their RBC calculation effective as of January 2011. The new calculation resulted in
a modest increase in the interest rate risk charge and resulted in only a slight decline in Prudential of Taiwan’s RBC ratio with no expected corresponding competitive impact. 
  On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a massive
earthquake followed by a tsunami which caused extensive damage and loss of life. We estimate that the impact of claims as a result of these events will not have a material impact on the capital and liquidity positions of our operating companies. In
addition, we have not experienced and do not expect a significant impact to the valuation of our investments or our ability to operate our Japanese businesses as a result of these events.    We employ various hedging strategies to manage potential exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements,
including the strategies discussed in “—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—International Insurance Division.” These hedging strategies include both internal and external hedging programs.
   The internal hedges are between a subsidiary of
Prudential Financial and certain of our yen-based entities and serve to hedge the value of U.S. dollar-denominated investments held on the books of these yen-based entities. A portion of these U.S. dollar-denominated investments are part of our
hedging strategy to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our U.S. dollar-equivalent investment in our Japanese subsidiaries. Absent an internal hedge, the changes in market value of these U.S. dollar-denominated
investments attributable to changes in the yen-dollar exchange rate would create volatility in the solvency margins of these subsidiaries. In order to minimize this volatility, we enter into inter-company hedges. Cash settlements from these hedging
activities result in cash flows between Prudential Financial and these yen-based subsidiaries. The cash flows are dependent on changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the notional amount of the exposures hedged. During 2011, Prudential
Financial funded $306 million of cash settlements related to the internal hedge program, which were paid to the yen-based subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2011, the market value of the internal hedges was a liability of $1,244 million owed to
the yen-based subsidiaries of Prudential Financial. Absent any changes in forward exchange rates from those expected as of December 31, 2011, the $1,244 million internal hedge liability represents the present value of the net cash flows from
Prudential Financial to these entities over the life of the hedging instruments, up to 30 years, and would require additional liquidity and capital to fund contributions from Prudential Financial to our subsidiaries. A significant yen appreciation
over an extended period of time, and in excess of the forward exchange rates, would result in higher capital and liquidity needs to fund the net cash outflows from Prudential Financial.    Our external hedges primarily serve to hedge most of the foreign-denominated future income of our foreign
subsidiaries and the equity investments in certain of these subsidiaries. The external hedges are between a subsidiary of Prudential Financial and external parties. Cash settlements on these activities result in cash flows between Prudential
Financial and the external parties and are dependent on changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the notional amount of the exposures hedged. During 2011, Prudential Financial paid $96 million of net cash flows for international
insurance-related external hedge settlements. As of December 31, 2011, the net liability related to external foreign currency hedges was $677 million. A significant appreciation in yen and other foreign currencies could result in net cash
outflows in excess of our liability. During 2009 and 2010, we terminated our hedges of the U.S. GAAP equity exposure of all of our other foreign operations, excluding our Japan and Taiwan insurance operations, due to a variety of considerations,
including a desire to limit the potential for cash settlement outflows that would result from strengthening foreign currencies.   
In our international investments operations, liquidity is provided through asset management fees as well as commission revenue. The
principal uses of liquidity include general and administrative expenses and distributions of dividends and returns of capital. As with our domestic operations, the primary liquidity risks for our fee-based asset management businesses relate to their
profitability, which is impacted by market conditions and our investment management performance. We believe cash flows from our international investments subsidiaries are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of their operations, as
well as requirements that could arise under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios, which are monitored through the use of internal measures. 
  239



Table of Contents
On July 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Global Commodities Business to Jefferies
Group, Inc. for cash proceeds of $422 million. For more information regarding the transaction, see “—Sale of the Global Commodities Business to Jefferies Group, Inc.” above.    On December 2, 2011, we completed the sale of our 50% stake in Afore XXI, a private pension fund manager
in Mexico, to Grupo Financiero Banorte SA for $200 million.   
Asset Management Subsidiaries   
Our asset management businesses, which include real estate, public and private fixed income and public equity asset management, as well as
commercial mortgage origination and servicing, and retail investment products, such as mutual funds and other retail services, are largely unregulated from the standpoint of dividends and distributions. Our asset management subsidiaries through
which we conduct these businesses generally do not have restrictions on the amount of distributions they can make, and the fee-based asset management business can provide a relatively stable source of cash flow to Prudential Financial. 
  The principal sources of liquidity for our fee-based asset
management businesses include asset management fees and commercial mortgage servicing fees. The principal uses of liquidity include general and administrative expenses and distribution of dividends and returns of capital to Prudential Financial. The
primary liquidity risks for our fee-based asset management businesses relate to their profitability, which is impacted by market conditions and our investment management performance. We believe the cash flows from our fee-based asset management
businesses are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of these operations, as well as requirements that could arise under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios, which are monitored through the use of internal measures. 
  The principal sources of liquidity for our strategic
investments and interim loans held in our asset management businesses are cash flows from investments, the ability to liquidate investments, and available borrowing lines from internal sources, including Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial.
The primary liquidity risks include the inability to sell assets in a timely manner, declines in the value of assets and credit defaults.   
In April 2009, our commercial mortgage origination and servicing business received approval to participate in a Fannie Mae alternative
delivery program known as ASAP Plus (“As Soon as Pooled” delivery). Our approval limit for outstanding balances on ASAP Plus is presently $150 million. This program allows us to assign a qualified Fannie Mae loan trade commitment to Fannie
Mae as early as the next business day after a loan closes, and receive 99% of the loan purchase price from Fannie Mae. The program does not eliminate the need to provide temporary warehouse financing, but does significantly reduce the duration of
funding requirements for eligible Fannie Mae originated loans from the normal delivery cycle of two to four weeks down to as little as one to two days. There was no balance outstanding on this program as of December 31, 2011. 
  Certain real estate funds under management are held for the
benefit of clients in insurance company separate accounts sponsored by Prudential Insurance. In the normal course of business, Prudential Insurance, on behalf of these separate accounts, may contractually agree to various funding commitments which
may include, among other things, commitments to purchase real estate, to invest in real estate partnerships (both existing and to-be-formed) to acquire or develop real estate, and/or to fund additional construction or other expenditures on
previously-acquired real estate investments. Certain commitments to purchase real estate are contingent on the developer’s development of the property according to plans and specifications outlined in a pre-sale agreement or the completed
property achieving a certain level of leasing. These contractual commitments are typically entered into by Prudential Insurance on behalf of the particular separate account. Real estate investments that are acquired for a separate account are titled
either in the name of Prudential Insurance or an LLC subsidiary specifically formed to hold title. In certain cases, the commitments specify that Prudential Insurance’s recourse liability for the obligation is limited to the assets of the
separate account.    At December 31, 2011 and
2010, total outstanding purchase commitments related to such separate account activity were $3.4 billion and $5.3 billion, respectively, which amounts include both off- and on-balance sheet commitments. The decrease in total outstanding purchase
commitments during the last twelve months was 
  240



Table of Contents

primarily driven by the satisfaction of outstanding debt commitments, which were funded from investor capital contributions and property sales. The following is a summary of the outstanding
purchase commitments for these separate account portfolios as of December 31, 2011. Off-balance sheet commitments include capital commitments and commitments with respect to properties that have not yet substantially satisfied pre-conditions
and are considered contingent liabilities. On-balance sheet commitments represent obligations which have substantially satisfied conditions to funding of the commitments.   




















 
  
Contractual Maturity Date
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2013
 
  
After2013
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Off-Balance Sheet Commitments:
  



  



  



  




 Recourse to Prudential Insurance
  
$
380
  
  
$
17
  
  
$
 0
  
  
$
397
  

 Recourse limited to assets of separate accounts
  
 
525
  
  
 
196
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
721
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Off-Balance Sheet Commitments
  
 
905
  
  
 
213
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,118
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 On-Balance Sheet Commitments:
  



  



  



  




 Recourse to Prudential Insurance
  
 
701
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
718
  

 Recourse limited to assets of separate accounts
  
 
1,337
  
  
 
188
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
1,543
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total On-Balance Sheet Commitments
  
 
2,038
  
  
 
188
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
2,261
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Commitments
  
$
2,943
  
  
$
401
  
  
$
35
  
  
$
3,379
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The contractual maturity
dates of some of the outstanding purchase commitments may accelerate upon a failure to maintain required loan-to-value ratios, failure of Prudential Insurance to maintain required ratings or failure to satisfy other financial covenants. 
  Some separate accounts have also entered into syndicated
credit facilities providing for borrowings in the aggregate amount of up to $0.8 billion. As of December 31, 2011, there were no outstanding borrowings under these credit facilities. These facilities also include loan-to-value ratio
requirements and other financial covenants. Recourse on obligations under these facilities is limited to the assets of the applicable separate account. As of December 31, 2011, these separate account portfolios had combined gross and net asset
values of $28 billion and $17 billion, respectively.    At the time of maturity of a funding commitment, Prudential Insurance often endeavors to negotiate extensions, refinancings, or other solutions with counterparties. Management believes that the separate
accounts have sufficient resources to ultimately meet their obligations. However, there is a risk that the separate accounts may not be able to timely fund all maturing obligations from regular sources such as asset sales, operating cash flow,
deposits from clients, debt refinancings or from the above-mentioned portfolio level credit facilities. In cases where the separate account is not able to fund maturing obligations, Prudential Insurance may be called upon or required to provide
interim funding solutions. To date, Prudential Insurance has not been required to provide any such funding.   
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our asset management subsidiaries had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1.3
billion and $0.8 billion, respectively.    Financing Activities
   Prudential Financial maintains a shelf
registration statement with the SEC that permits the issuance of public debt, equity and hybrid securities. As a “Well-Known Seasoned Issuer” under SEC rules, Prudential Financial’s shelf registration statement provides for automatic
effectiveness upon filing, pay-as-you-go fees and the ability to add securities by filing automatically effective amendments. Also, in accordance with these rules, the shelf registration statement has no stated issuance capacity. 
  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, total short- and
long-term debt of the Company on a consolidated basis was $27.0 billion and $25.6 billion, respectively, which as shown below, includes $18.6 billion and $17.6 billion, respectively, related to the parent company, Prudential Financial. 
  241



Table of Contents
Prudential Financial Borrowings    Prudential Financial is authorized to borrow funds from various sources to meet its capital and other funding
needs, as well as the capital and other funding needs of its subsidiaries. The following table sets forth the outstanding short- and long-term debt of Prudential Financial, other than debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries, as of the dates
indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Borrowings:
  



  




 General obligation short-term debt:
  



  




 Commercial paper
  
$
296
  
  
$
 283
  

 Current portion of long-term debt
  
 
956
  
  
 
486
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total general obligation short-term debt
  
 
1,252
  
  
 
769
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 General obligation long-term debt:
  



  




 Senior debt
  
 
13,236
  
  
 
12,654
  

 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities)
  
 
1,519
  
  
 
1,519
  

 Retail medium-term notes
  
 
2,545
  
  
 
2,668
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total general obligation long-term debt
  
 
17,300
  
  
 
16,841
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total borrowings
  
$
18,552
  
  
$
17,610
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The following table presents,
as of December 31, 2011, the contractual maturities of Prudential Financial’s general obligation long-term debt.   
















 Calendar Year
  
SeniorDebt
 
  
Junior SubordinatedDebt
 
  
Retail Medium-Term Notes
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2013
  
$
1,581
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
165
  

 2014
  
 
1,473
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
80
  

 2015
  
 
2,148
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
81
  

 2016
  
 
750
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
26
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
7,284
  
  
 
1,519
  
  
 
2,193
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
13,236
  
  
$
1,519
  
  
$
2,545
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Prudential Financial
maintains a Medium-Term Notes, Series D program under its shelf registration statement with an authorized issuance capacity of $20 billion, of which as of December 31, 2011 approximately $8.3 billion remained available. On May 12, 2011
Prudential Financial issued $500 million of 3.0% notes due May 2016 and $300 million of 5.625% notes due May 2041 under the Medium-Term Notes, Series D program, proceeds from which were used to fund operating loans to our businesses and for other
general corporate purposes. On November 16, 2011, Prudential Financial issued $400 million of 4.5% notes due November 2021 and $325 million of 5.8% notes due November 2041, the majority of the proceeds from which will be used to refinance
maturing capital debt. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Financial’s medium-term and senior notes, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, were 5.24% and 5.21% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, excluding the effect of debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries.    Prudential Financial also maintains a retail medium-term notes program, including the InterNotes® program, under its shelf registration statement with an authorized issuance capacity of $5.0 billion, of which as of December 31, 2011 approximately $2.9 billion
remained available. The retail medium-term notes program traditionally has served as a funding source for a product of our Retirement segment for which we earn investment spread; however, the program can also be used for general corporate purposes.
Beginning in 2009, we began using a portion of the proceeds from outstanding retail medium-term notes for general corporate purposes and used funding agreements issued to the FHLBNY as a substitute funding source for the asset portfolio within the
Retirement segment, as discussed in “—Prudential Financial—Alternative Sources of Liquidity—Federal 
  242



Table of Contents

Home Loan Bank of New York.” The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Financial’s retail medium-term notes were 5.89% and 5.74% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively, excluding the effect of debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries. A decline in demand by retail investors and an increase in borrowing costs versus historical levels have resulted in a halt in new issuances under the retail
medium-term notes program. However, if the capital markets improve, we may resume new issuances under the program. As of December 31, 2011, $2.1 billion of the outstanding retail notes were redeemable by the Company at par. The Company may,
from time to time, redeem some or all of these retail notes as part of its overall liquidity and capital management.   
In 2008, Prudential Financial issued $600 million of 8.875% fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated notes to institutional investors
and $920 million of 9.0% fixed-rate junior subordinated notes to retail investors. Both issuances are considered hybrid capital securities, which receive enhanced equity treatment from the rating agencies. Both series of notes have a scheduled
maturity of June 15, 2038 and a final maturity of June 15, 2068. In connection with the issuance of both series of notes, Prudential Financial entered into a replacement capital covenant, or RCC, for the benefit of holders of its 6.625%
Senior Notes due 2037. Under the RCC, Prudential Financial agreed that it will not repay, redeem, defease, or purchase these junior subordinated notes prior to June 15, 2048, unless it has received proceeds from the issuance of specified
replacement capital securities, which include, but are not limited to, hybrid capital securities and common stock. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these junior subordinated notes.
   Consolidated Borrowings 
  Current capital markets activities for the Company on a
consolidated basis principally consist of unsecured short-term and long-term borrowings by Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial, unsecured third party bank borrowings, and asset-based or secured financing. As of December 31, 2011, we
were in compliance with all debt covenants related to the borrowings in the table below.    The following table sets forth total consolidated borrowings of the Company as of the dates indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Borrowings:
  



  




 General obligation short-term debt(1)
  
$
2,336
  
  
$
1,982
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 General obligation long-term debt:
  



  




 Senior debt
  
 
16,488
  
  
 
15,517
  

 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities)
  
 
1,519
  
  
 
1,519
  

 Surplus notes(2)(3)
  
 
4,140
  
  
 
4,142
  

 Other(4)
  
 
725
  
  
 
725
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total general obligation long-term debt
  
 
22,872
  
  
 
21,903
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total general obligations
  
 
25,208
  
  
 
23,885
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Limited and non-recourse borrowing:
  



  




 Limited and non-recourse long-term debt(5)
  
 
1,750
  
  
 
1,750
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total limited and non-recourse borrowing
  
 
1,750
  
  
 
1,750
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total borrowings(6)
  
 
26,958
  
  
 
25,635
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total asset-based financing
  
 
9,196
  
  
 
8,057
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total borrowings and asset-based financings
  
$
36,154
  
  
$
33,692
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, includes $199 million and $275 million, respectively, of short-term debt representing collateralized advances with the Federal
Home Loan Bank of New York, which are discussed in more detail in “—Alternative Sources of Liquidity—Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.” 


(2)
 
As of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, includes $3.2 billion of floating rate surplus notes issued by subsidiaries of Prudential Insurance to fund regulatory
reserves, as well as $940 million and $942 million, respectively, of fixed rate surplus notes issued by Prudential Insurance. 
  243



Table of Contents


(3)
 
As of December 31, 2011, the $4.1 billion of surplus notes outstanding is net of $500 million of assets under set-off arrangements, representing a reduction in the
amount of surplus notes included in long-term debt, relating to an arrangement where valid rights of offset exist and it is the intent of both parties to settle on a net basis under legally enforceable arrangements. 


(4)
 
Reflects collateralized advances with Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, which are discussed in more detail in “—Alternative Sources of
Liquidity—Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.” 


(5)
 
As of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, the $1.75 billion of limited and non-recourse long-term debt outstanding was attributable to the Closed Block Business.



(6)
 
Does not include $3.2 billion and $3.5 billion of medium-term notes of consolidated trust entities secured by funding agreements purchased with the proceeds of such
notes as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, or $1.5 billion of collateralized funding agreements issued to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010. These notes and funding agreements are
included in “Policyholders’ account balances.” For additional information on the trust notes, see “—Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program” and for additional information on the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York
funding agreements, see “—Alternative Sources of Liquidity—Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.”   
Total general debt obligations increased by $1.3 billion from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, primarily reflecting
issuances of medium-term notes and the assumption of Star and Edison debt. In conjunction with the acquisition of Star and Edison, the Company assumed ¥47.8 billion of long-term debt, of which ¥32.5 billion and ¥5.3 billion are scheduled
to mature in 2014 and 2026, respectively, and ¥10 billion has no stated maturity date. At December 31, 2011, the carrying value of this debt was $520 million. 
  Our total borrowings consist of capital debt,
investment-related debt, securities business-related debt and debt related to specified other businesses. Capital debt consists of borrowings that are used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of Prudential Financial, as well as
borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial and subsidiary borrowings utilized for capital requirements. Investment-related borrowings consist of debt issued to finance specific
investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate and real estate-related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, assets supporting reserve requirements under
Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX as described below, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences. Securities business-related debt consists of debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our
broker-dealers and our capital markets and other securities business-related operations. Debt related to specified other businesses consists of borrowings associated with our individual annuities business, real estate franchises, and relocation
services. Those borrowings where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral, or where the borrower has only very limited rights to collect against other assets, have been classified as limited and
non-recourse debt.    The following table summarizes
our borrowings, categorized by use of proceeds, as of the dates indicated.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 General obligations:
  



  




 Capital debt(1)
  
$
11,224
  
  
$
8,763
  

 Investment-related
  
 
8,897
  
  
 
9,569
  

 Securities business-related
  
 
1,518
  
  
 
2,230
  

 Specified other businesses
  
 
3,569
  
  
 
3,323
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total general obligations
  
 
25,208
  
  
 
23,885
  

 Limited and non-recourse debt(2)
  
 
1,750
  
  
 
1,750
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total borrowings
  
$
26,958
  
  
$
25,635
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Short-term debt
  
$
2,336
  
  
$
1,982
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
24,622
  
  
 
23,653
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total borrowings
  
$
26,958
  
  
$
25,635
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Borrowings of Financial Services Businesses
  
$
25,208
  
  
$
23,885
  

 Borrowings of Closed Block Business
  
 
1,750
  
  
 
1,750
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total borrowings
  
$
26,958
  
  
$
25,635
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes $1,519 million of total outstanding junior subordinated debt. See “—Prudential Financial” for additional information on our capital debt to
total capital ratio, including the equity credit attributed to our outstanding junior subordinated debt. 


(2)
 
As of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, the limited and non-recourse debt outstanding was attributable to the Closed Block Business. 
  244



Table of Contents
The following table presents, as of December 31, 2011, the contractual maturities of
the Company’s long-term debt.   








  
  
Long-term Debt
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Calendar Year:
  




 2013
  
$
1,825
  

 2014
  
 
2,064
  

 2015
  
 
3,159
  

 2016
  
 
1,502
  

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
16,072
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
24,622
  


  
  
  
 
   We may, from time to time,
seek to redeem or repurchase our outstanding debt securities through individually negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such repurchases will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity position, contractual restrictions and other
factors.    The states of domicile of our domestic
life insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled “Valuation of Life Insurance Policies,” commonly known as “Regulation XXX,” and a supporting Guideline entitled “The Application of the Valuation of Life
Insurance Policies,” commonly known as “Guideline AXXX.” The Regulation and supporting Guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that
are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. Many market participants believe that this level of reserves is non-economic, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital
management actions to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX on our term and universal life insurance business, including actions that are described in more detail below.    During 2011, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance entered into agreements providing for the issuance and sale
of up to $1 billion of ten-year fixed-rate surplus notes in order to finance reserves required under Regulation XXX. At December 31, 2011, $500 million of surplus notes were outstanding under this facility. Under the agreements, the subsidiary
issuer received debt securities, with a principal amount equal to the surplus notes issued, which are redeemable under certain circumstances, including upon the occurrence of specified stress events affecting the subsidiary issuer. Because valid
rights of set-off exist, interest and principal payments on the surplus notes and on the debt securities are settled on a net basis, and the surplus notes are reflected in the Company’s total consolidated borrowings on a net basis. Prudential
Financial has agreed to make capital contributions to the subsidiary issuer in order to reimburse it for investment losses in excess of specified amounts. In addition, during 2011, another subsidiary of Prudential Insurance issued a $1.5 billion
surplus note to an affiliate to finance reserves required under Guideline AXXX.    Subsidiaries of Prudential Insurance have outstanding an additional $3.2 billion of surplus notes that were issued in 2006 and 2007 to finance reserves required under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX.
Prudential Financial has agreed to maintain the capital of these subsidiaries at or above a prescribed minimum level and has entered into arrangements (which are accounted for as derivative instruments) that require it to make certain payments in
the event of deterioration in the value of these surplus notes. As of December 31, 2011, there were no collateral postings made under these derivative instruments. 
  The surplus notes described above are subordinated to
policyholder obligations, and the payment of interest and principal on the surplus notes may only be made with prior regulatory approval.   
As we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have additional borrowing needs to finance statutory reserves
required under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX. However, we believe we have sufficient financing resources in place, including those described above, to meet our financing needs under Regulation XXX through 2012 and under Guideline AXXX through
the year 2014, assuming that the volume of new business remains consistent with current sales levels. 
  245



Table of Contents
Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program 
  In 2003, Prudential Insurance established a Funding
Agreement Notes Issuance Program pursuant to which a Delaware statutory trust issues medium-term notes (which are included in our statements of financial position in “Policyholders’ account balances” and not included in the foregoing
table) secured by funding agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance and included in our Retirement segment. The funding agreements provide cash flow sufficient for the debt service on the related medium-term notes. The medium-term notes
are sold in transactions not requiring registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The notes have fixed or floating interest rates and original maturities ranging from five to ten years. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the outstanding
aggregate principal amount of such notes totaled $3.2 billion and $3.5 billion respectively, out of a total authorized amount of up to $15 billion. Our ability to issue under this program depends on market conditions. The aggregate maturities of
these notes over the next 12 months are approximately $1.4 billion. We intend to repay the maturing notes through a combination of cash flows from asset maturities and available cash.    Credit Facilities   
In December 2011, we replaced our previously-existing $3.93 billion of revolving credit facilities, by entering into a new $2 billion
five-year credit facility with 19 financial institutions that has Prudential Financial as borrower and a new $1.75 billion three-year credit facility with 23 financial institutions that has both Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding as
borrowers. There were no outstanding borrowings under these credit facilities as of December 31, 2011 or as of the date of this filing.   
Each of the new facilities is available to the applicable borrowers up to the aggregate committed credit and may be used for general
corporate purposes, including as backup liquidity for our commercial paper programs. Prudential Financial expects that it may borrow under the five-year credit facility from time to time to fund its working capital needs and those of its
subsidiaries. In addition, up to $300 million of the five-year facility may be drawn in the form of standby letters of credit that can be used to meet the Company’s operating needs.    The credit facilities contain representations and warranties, covenants and events of default that are
customary for facilities of this type; however, borrowings under the facilities are not contingent on our credit ratings nor subject to material adverse change clauses. Borrowings under the credit facilities are conditioned on the continued
satisfaction of other customary conditions, including the maintenance at all times of consolidated net worth, relating to the Company’s Financial Services Businesses only, of at least $21.25 billion, which for this purpose is calculated as U.S.
GAAP equity, excluding “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” and excluding equity of noncontrolling interests. Under the applicable credit agreements, the required minimum level of consolidated net worth will be reduced
automatically in the future by an amount equal to 85 percent of the amount of any reduction, on an after-tax basis, in the total U.S. GAAP equity attributable to the Company’s Financial Services Businesses, resulting from the Company’s
expected retrospective application of amended authoritative guidance regarding the deferral of costs relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts. 
  As of December 31, 2011, the consolidated net worth of
the Company’s Financial Services Businesses exceeded the minimum amount required to borrow under the credit facilities.   
We also use uncommitted lines of credit from financial institutions. 
  Ratings 
  Financial strength ratings (which are sometimes referred to
as “claims-paying” ratings) and credit ratings are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products. Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations continually review
the financial performance and financial condition of the entities they rate, including Prudential Financial and its rated subsidiaries. Our credit ratings are also important for our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and for the
cost of such financing.    A downgrade in the credit
or financial strength ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the

  246



Table of Contents

number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial
guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors,
or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity, and/or capital. In addition, we consider our own risk of non-performance in determining the fair value of our liabilities. Therefore, changes in our
credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities.    Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy. Credit ratings represent the
opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity’s ability to repay its indebtedness. The following table summarizes the ratings for Prudential Financial and certain of its subsidiaries as of the date of this filing. 
 












 
  
A.M.Best(1)
  
S&P(2)
  
Moody’s(3)
 
Fitch(4)

 Financial Strength Ratings:
  

  

  

 


 The Prudential Insurance Company of America
  
A+
  
AA-
  
A2
 
A+

 Pruco Life Insurance Company
  
A+
  
AA-
  
A2
 
A+

 Pruco Life Insurance Company of New Jersey
  
A+
  
AA-
  
NR*
 
A+

 Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation
  
A+
  
AA-
  
NR
 
A+

 Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company
  
A+
  
AA-
  
A2
 
A+

 The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. (Prudential of Japan)
  
NR
  
AA-
  
NR
 
NR

 Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. 
  
NR
  
AA-
  
A2
 
NR







 Credit Ratings:
  

  

  

 


 Prudential Financial, Inc.:
  

  

  

 


 Short-term borrowings
  
AMB-1
  
A-1
  
P-2
 
F2

 Long-term senior debt(5)
  
a-
  
A
  
Baa2
 
BBB+

 Junior subordinated long-term debt
  
bbb
  
BBB+
  
Baa3
 
BBB-

 The Prudential Insurance Company of America:
  

  

  

 


 Capital and surplus notes
  
a
  
A
  
Baa1
 
A-

 Prudential Funding, LLC:
  

  

  

 


 Short-term debt
  
AMB-1
  
A-1+
  
P-2
 
F1

 Long-term senior debt
  
a+
  
AA-
  
A3
 
A

 PRICOA Global Funding I:
  

  

  

 


 Long-term senior debt
  
aa-
  
AA-
  
A2
 
A+
  


*
 
“NR” indicates not rated. 


(1)
 
A.M. Best Company , which we refer to as A.M. Best, financial strength ratings for insurance companies currently range from “A++ (superior)” to “F (in
liquidation).” A.M. Best’s ratings reflect its opinion of an insurance company’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. An A.M. Best long-term credit rating is an opinion of the
ability of an obligor to pay interest and principal in accordance with the terms of the obligation. A.M. Best long-term credit ratings range from “aaa (exceptional)” to “d (in default),” with ratings from “aaa” to
“bbb” considered as investment grade. An A.M. Best short-term credit rating reflects an opinion of the issuer’s fundamental credit quality. Ratings range from “AMB-1+,” which represents an exceptional ability to repay
short-term debt obligations, to “AMB-4,” which correlates with a speculative (“bb”) long-term rating. 


(2)
 
Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, which we refer to as S&P, financial strength ratings currently range from “AAA (extremely strong)” to
“R (regulatory supervision).” These ratings reflect S&P’s opinion of an operating insurance company’s financial capacity to meet the obligations of its insurance policies in accordance with their terms. A “+” or
“-” indicates relative strength within a category. An S&P credit rating is a current opinion of the creditworthiness of an obligor with respect to a specific financial obligation, a specific class of financial obligations or a specific
financial program. S&P’s long-term issue credit ratings range from “AAA (extremely strong)” to “D (default).” S&P short-term ratings range from “A-1 (highest category)” to “D (default).”



(3)
 
 Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., which we refer to as Moody’s, insurance financial strength ratings currently range from “Aaa
(exceptional)” to “C (lowest).” Moody’s insurance ratings reflect the ability of insurance companies to repay punctually senior policyholder claims and obligations. Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the
group—with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are used to indicate relative strength within a category. Moody’s credit ratings currently range from “Aaa (highest)” to “C (default).” Moody’s
credit ratings grade debt according to its investment quality. Moody’s considers “A1,” “A2” and “A3” rated debt to be upper medium grade obligations, subject to low credit risk. Moody’s short-term ratings are
opinions of the 
  247



Table of Contents


 
 
ability of issuers to honor senior financial obligations and contracts. Prime ratings range from “Prime-1 (P-1),” which represents a superior ability for repayment of senior short-term
debt obligations, to “Prime-3 (P-3),” which represents an acceptable ability for repayment of such obligations. Issuers rated “Not Prime” do not fall within any of the Prime rating categories. 


(4)
 
Fitch Ratings Ltd., which we refer to as Fitch, financial strength ratings currently range from “AAA (exceptionally strong)” to “D (distressed).”
Fitch’s ratings reflect its assessment of the likelihood of timely payment of policyholder and contractholder obligations. Fitch long-term credit ratings currently range from “AAA (highest credit quality),” which denotes exceptionally
strong capacity for timely payment of financial commitments, to “D (default).” Investment grade ratings range between “AAA” and “BBB.” Short-term ratings range from “F1 (highest credit quality)” to “C
(high default risk).” Within long-term and short-term ratings, a “+” or a “–” may be appended to a rating to denote relative status within major rating categories. 


(5)
 
Includes the retail medium-term notes program.   
The ratings set forth above reflect current opinions of each rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other
rating. These ratings are not directed toward shareholders and do not in any way reflect evaluations of the safety and security of the Common Stock. These ratings are reviewed periodically and may be changed at any time by the rating agencies. As a
result, we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future.    Requirements to post collateral or make other payments as a result of ratings downgrades under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, can be satisfied in cash or by posting permissible
securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. A ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels as of December 31, 2011 (relating to financial strength ratings in certain cases and credit ratings in other
cases) would result in estimated additional collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $75 million. The amount of collateral required to be posted for derivative agreements is also dependent on the fair value
of the derivative positions as of the balance sheet date. For additional information regarding the potential impacts of a ratings downgrade on our derivative agreements see Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, a ratings
downgrade by A.M. Best to “A-” for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.8 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the
variable annuity business acquired from Allstate, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $28 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. We believe that the posting of such
collateral would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance.    Rating agencies use an “outlook” statement for both industry sectors and individual companies. For an industry sector, a stable outlook generally implies that over the next 12-18 months the
rating agency expects ratings to remain unchanged among companies in the sector. Currently, A.M. Best, S&P, Moody’s and Fitch all have the U.S. life insurance industry on stable outlook. For a particular company, an outlook generally
indicates a medium- or long-term trend (generally six months to two years) in credit fundamentals, which if continued, may lead to a rating change. These indicators are not necessarily a precursor of a rating change nor do they preclude a rating
agency from changing a rating at any time without notice. Moody’s currently has all of the Company’s ratings on positive outlook. Except as noted below, A.M. Best, S&P, and Fitch currently have the Company’s ratings on stable
outlook.    In view of the difficulties experienced
recently by many financial institutions, the rating agencies have heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, have increased the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, have requested additional information from the
companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels, such as the financial strength ratings currently held by our life insurance
subsidiaries. In addition, actions we might take to access third party financing or to realign our capital structure may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. 
  The following is a summary of the significant changes in our
ratings and rating outlooks that have occurred from the beginning of 2011 through the date of this filing.   
On April 27, 2011, S&P assigned a negative outlook to the ratings of The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. and Gibraltar
Life Insurance Company, Ltd. as part of its decision to put the sovereign debt ratings of Japan on negative outlook. 
  248



Table of Contents
On June 8, 2011, A.M. Best affirmed the long-term senior debt rating of Prudential
Financial at “a-” and the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at “A+.”   
On June 23, 2011, Moody’s affirmed the long-term senior debt rating of Prudential Financial at “Baa2” and the
financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at “A2,” and revised the outlook from stable to positive.   
In July 2011, S&P affirmed the long-term senior debt rating of Prudential Financial at “A” and the financial strength
ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at “AA-.”    On October 13, 2011, S&P upgraded the financial strength and long-term counterparty ratings of AIG Edison Life Insurance Company from “A” to “AA-” with a negative outlook. The
negative outlook reflects S&P’s outlook on the sovereign debt ratings of Japan.    On December 19, 2011, Fitch affirmed the long-term senior debt rating of Prudential Financial at “BBB+” and the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at
“A+.”    On January 4, 2012,
Moody’s affirmed the financial strength rating of Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd at “A2.” At the same time, Moody’s withdrew the “A2” financial strength rating of AIG Edison Life Insurance Company due to its
merger with Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd.   
On January 5, 2012, S&P withdrew the financial strength and long-term counterparty ratings of AIG Edison Life Insurance Company
due to its merger with Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd.    Contractual Obligations    The table below summarizes the future estimated cash payments related to certain contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011. The estimated payments reflected in this table are based on
management’s estimates and assumptions about these obligations. Because these estimates and assumptions are necessarily subjective, the actual cash outflows in future periods will vary, possibly materially, from those reflected in the table. In
addition, we do not believe that our cash flow requirements can be adequately assessed based solely upon an analysis of these obligations, as the table below does not contemplate all aspects of our cash inflows, such as the level of cash flow
generated by certain of our investments, nor all aspects of our cash outflows.   
























 
  
Estimated Payments Due by Period
 

 
  
Total
 
  
2012
 
  
2013-2014
 
  
2015-2016
 
  
2017 andthereafter
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Short-term and long-term debt obligations(1)
  
$
41,048
  
  
$
3,616
  
  
$
6,223
  
  
$
6,619
  
  
$
24,590
  

 Operating lease obligations(2)
  
 
686
  
  
 
152
  
  
 
257
  
  
 
134
  
  
 
143
  

 Purchase obligations:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commitments to purchase or fund investments(3)
  
 
5,573
  
  
 
4,562
  
  
 
927
  
  
 
47
  
  
 
37
  

 Commercial mortgage loan commitments(4)
  
 
2,139
  
  
 
1,565
  
  
 
459
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
115
  

 Other liabilities:
  



  



  



  



  




 Insurance liabilities(5)
  
 
1,136,044
  
  
 
43,690
  
  
 
69,525
  
  
 
72,471
  
  
 
950,358
  

 Other(6)
  
 
11,563
  
  
 
10,662
  
  
 
249
  
  
 
51
  
  
 
601
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,197,053
  
  
$
64,247
  
  
$
77,640
  
  
$
79,322
  
  
$
975,844
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The estimated payments due by period for long-term debt reflects the contractual maturities of principal, as disclosed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, as well as estimated future interest payments. The payment of principal and estimated future interest for short-term debt are reflected in estimated payments due in less than one year. The estimate for future interest payments includes
the effect of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning our short-term and long-term debt. 


(2)
 
The estimated payments due by period for operating leases reflect the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases, as disclosed in Note 23 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have no significant capital lease obligations. 
  249



Table of Contents


(3)
 
As discussed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have commitments to purchase or fund investments, some of which are contingent upon events or
circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. The timing of the fulfillment of certain of these commitments cannot be estimated, therefore the settlement of these obligations are reflected in estimated
payments due in less than one year. Commitments to purchase or fund investments include $1.159 billion that we anticipate will ultimately be funded from our separate accounts. Of these separate account commitments, $0.397 billion have recourse to
Prudential Insurance if the separate accounts are unable to fund the amounts when due. For further discussion of these separate account commitments, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—Asset Management
Subsidiaries.” 


(4)
 
As discussed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, loan commitments of our commercial mortgage operations, which are legally binding commitments to
extend credit to a counterparty, have been reflected in the contractual obligations table above principally based on the expiration date of the commitment; however, it is possible these loan commitments could be funded prior to their expiration. In
certain circumstances the counterparty may also extend the date of the expiration in exchange for a fee. 


(5)
 
The estimated payments due by period for insurance liabilities reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders and others for future policy benefits,
policyholders’ account balances, policyholder’s dividends, reinsurance payables and separate account liabilities. These future estimated cash outflows are based on mortality, morbidity, lapse and other assumptions comparable with our
experience, consider future premium receipts on current policies in force, and assume market growth and interest crediting consistent with assumptions used in amortizing deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired. These cash outflows
are undiscounted with respect to interest and, as a result, the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table of $1,136 billion exceeds the corresponding liability amounts of $530 billion included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
as of December 31, 2011. Separate account liabilities are legally insulated from general account obligations, and it is generally expected these liabilities will be fully funded by separate account assets and their related cash flows. We have
made significant assumptions to determine the future estimated cash outflows related to the underlying policies and contracts. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, actual cash outflows will differ, possibly materially, from these
estimates. 


(6)
 
The estimated payments due by period for other liabilities includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase, cash collateral for loaned securities, liabilities
for unrecognized tax benefits, bank customer liabilities, and other miscellaneous liabilities.   
We also enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations are not
material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position as of December 31, 2011.   
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   
Guarantees and Other Contingencies   
In the course of our business, we provide certain guarantees and indemnities to third parties pursuant to which we may be contingently
required to make payments now or in the future. See “Commitments and Guarantees” within Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
  Other Contingent Commitments 
  We also have other commitments, some of which are contingent
upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. See “Commitments and Guarantees” within Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding
these commitments. For further discussion of certain of these commitments that relate to our separate accounts, also see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—Asset Management Subsidiaries.” 
  Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  We do not have retained or contingent interests in assets
transferred to unconsolidated entities, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities or other similar transactions, arrangements or relationships that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support, that we believe are reasonably likely to
have a material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or our access to or requirements for capital resources. In addition, we do not have
relationships with any unconsolidated entities that are contractually limited to narrow activities that facilitate our transfer of or access to associated assets. 
  250



Table of Contents


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments 
  Risk management includes the identification and measurement
of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. We consider risk management an integral
part of managing our core businesses.    Market risk
is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices or commodity prices. To varying degrees, the investment and trading activities
supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. The market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk vary by product. 
  With respect to non-variable life insurance products,
fixed-rate annuities, the fixed-rate accounts in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. We manage this risk through asset/liability management
and derivative strategies that seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. Our overall
objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements within the context of market conditions and other relative opportunities. While it is more difficult to measure the
interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in
the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. Certain products supported by general account investments also expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to
pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. In a declining or sustained low interest rate environment, our ability to achieve desired spreads can become limited by
minimum guaranteed crediting rates associated with some of our variable life insurance and annuity products.   
For variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed-rate accounts associated with these products, mutual
funds and most separate accounts, we are exposed to the risk that asset-based fees may decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in investment values. We also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by
reference to performance could be lower. The risk of decreased asset-based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. While a decrease
in our estimates of total gross profits would accelerate amortization and decrease net income in a given period, it would not affect our cash flow or liquidity position. 
  For variable annuity and variable life insurance products
with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a
result of interest rate, equity market, or market volatility changes may increase our net exposure to the guarantees under these contracts. As part of our risk management strategy, we utilize product design elements such as asset allocation
restrictions, an automatic rebalancing element and minimum purchase age requirements, in addition to externally-purchased hedging instruments such as interest rate and equity-based derivatives to help to hedge or limit our market risk exposure to
the benefit features of certain of our variable annuity contracts. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with our variable annuity
contracts.    For a discussion of asset-based fees
associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts, our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other
benefits on the results of our Individual Life and Individual Annuities segments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by
Segment—U.S. Individual 
  251



Table of Contents

Life and Group Insurance Division—Individual Life” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for
Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.”   
For risk management purposes we perform stress scenario testing to monitor the impact of extreme, but realistic adverse market events on
our capital adequacy and liquidity. This testing allows us to assess the sensitivity of our businesses to market factors and identify any concentrations of risk. The regulatory capital levels and liquidity of our insurance companies in particular
are closely monitored to ensure they remain consistent with our rating objectives. Changes to these ratings could impact our borrowing costs, our ability to access alternative sources of liquidity, and our ability to market certain products. For
additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Market fluctuations or changes in
market conditions could also cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings, protection and other investment products. For additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest
rate and other market fluctuations as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” 
  The sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided
into two categories, “other than trading” activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and “trading” activities conducted primarily in our derivatives trading operations. As part of our management of
both “other than trading” and “trading” market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques, which include sensitivity and Value-at-Risk, or VaR, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and
various hedging methods.    Other Than Trading Activities
   We hold the majority of our assets for
“other than trading” activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. We incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our
assets. We use derivatives for hedging and other purposes in the asset/liability management process.   
Insurance and Annuities Products Asset/Liability Management 
  We seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures
within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. Our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of
security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage interest rate and equity exposure risk, as well as credit, liquidity and other risks, all within policy constraints set by management and approved by the Investment Committee of the Board of
Directors. For additional information regarding the management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Realized
Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—General Account Investments—Management of Investments.”   
We use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. Duration measures the relative sensitivity
of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. Convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. We use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest
rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling “duration mismatch” of assets and liabilities. We have target duration mismatch constraints by
segment for each insurance entity. In certain markets, primarily outside the U.S., capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the
constraint limits. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration-managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. We consider risk-based
capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies.   
We also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our U.S. regulatory cash flow for major product lines that are subject to risk from
changes in interest rates. In this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest-
  252



Table of Contents

sensitive assumptions under various adverse interest rate environments. These interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income
securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. We evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or
adjust portfolio management strategies.    Market
Risk Related to Interest Rates    Our
“other than trading” assets that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. In the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 80% and
78% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
With respect to “other than trading” liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances
relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. 
  We assess interest rate sensitivity for “other than
trading” financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in
either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. The following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, because this scenario results in the
greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. While the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of
fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. These test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield
curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. As a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these
calculations.   




















 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

  
Notional
 
  
FairValue
 
 
Hypothetical FairValue After +100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve
Shift
 
 
HypotheticalChange in FairValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Financial assets with interest rate risk:
  



  



 



 




 Fixed maturities(1)
  



  
$
279,099
  
 
$
257,476
  
 
$
(21,623
) 

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  



  
 
37,740
  
 
 
36,220
  
 
 
(1,520
) 

 Policy loans
  



  
 
14,858
  
 
 
13,871
  
 
 
(987
) 

 Derivatives:
  



  



 



 




 Swaps
  
$
179,745
  
  
 
5,272
  
 
 
1,676
  
 
 
(3,596
) 

 Futures
  
 
6,193
  
  
 
150
  
 
 
63
  
 
 
(87
) 

 Options
  
 
15,650
  
  
 
383
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
(280
) 

 Forwards
  
 
19,120
  
  
 
(152
) 
 
 
(187
) 
 
 
(35
) 

 Variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2)
  



  
 
(2,886
) 
 
 
(871
) 
 
 
2,015
  

 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk:
  



  



 



 




 Short-term and long-term debt
  



  
 
(28,174
) 
 
 
(25,951
) 
 
 
2,223
  

 Debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3)
  



  
 
(493
) 
 
 
(493
) 
 
 
0
  

 Investment contracts
  



  
 
(103,184
) 
 
 
(99,641
) 
 
 
3,543
  

 Bank customer liabilities
  



  
 
(1,745
) 
 
 
(1,733
) 
 
 
12
  


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Net estimated potential loss
  



  



 



 
$
(20,335
) 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

  253



Table of Contents




















 
  
As of December 31, 2010
 

  
Notional
 
  
FairValue
 
 
Hypothetical FairValue After +100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift
 
 
HypotheticalChange inFair Value
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Financial assets with interest rate risk:
  



  



 



 




 Fixed maturities(1)
  



  
$
217,694
  
 
$
202,279
  
 
$
(15,415
) 

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  



  
 
33,129
  
 
 
31,869
  
 
 
(1,260
) 

 Policy loans
  



  
 
12,781
  
 
 
11,978
  
 
 
(803
) 

 Derivatives:
  



  



 



 




 Swaps
  
$
138,442
  
  
 
563
  
 
 
(1,182
) 
 
 
(1,745
) 

 Futures
  
 
6,834
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(43
) 
 
 
(43
) 

 Options
  
 
23,277
  
  
 
516
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
(89
) 

 Forwards
  
 
11,891
  
  
 
(159
) 
 
 
(167
) 
 
 
(8
) 

 Variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2)
  



  
 
204
  
 
 
1,388
  
 
 
1,184
  

 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk:
  



  



 



 




 Short-term and long-term debt
  



  
 
(27,093
) 
 
 
(25,049
) 
 
 
2,044
  

 Debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3)
  



  
 
(265
) 
 
 
(265
) 
 
 
0
  

 Investment contracts
  



  
 
(78,757
) 
 
 
(76,258
) 
 
 
2,499
  

 Bank customer liabilities
  



  
 
(1,775
) 
 
 
(1,762
) 
 
 
13
  


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Net estimated potential loss
  



  



 



 
$
(13,623
) 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes “trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities” and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under U.S. GAAP, but are held
for “other than trading” activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. 


(2)
 
The hypothetical change in fair value related to our variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives reflects only the gross fair value change on
the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes in fair value. 


(3)
 
Included in “Other liabilities” together with all liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities.    The tables above do not include approximately $203 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of December 31, 2011 and $163 billion as of December 31, 2010 which are not considered
financial liabilities. We believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts, which are set forth
in these tables.    Our net estimated potential loss
in fair value as of December 31, 2011 increased $6,712 million from December 31, 2010, primarily reflecting an increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2011. The increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2011 was
primarily due to the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses on February 1, 2011, as well as portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income and a net increase in fair value primarily driven by a net decrease in
interest rates.    The estimated changes in fair
values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate
account contractholders rather than by us.   
Market Risk Related to Equity Prices   
We actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. We benchmark our return on equity holdings
against a blend of market indices, mainly the S&P 500 and Russell 2000 for U.S. equities. For foreign equities we benchmark against the Tokyo Price Index, or TOPIX, and the MSCI EAFE, a market index of European, Australian, and Far Eastern
equities. We target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. We estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in
fair market value of equity securities we hold. Using this methodology, our estimated investment equity price risk as of December 31, 2011 was $1,007 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held
at that date from $10.067 billion to $9.060 billion. Our estimated investment equity price risk using this methodology as of December 31, 2010 was $922 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity

  254



Table of Contents

securities we held at that date from $9.217 billion to $8.295 billion. In calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment
risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder rather than by us.    In addition to equity securities, as indicated above, we hold equity-based derivatives primarily to hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit features in some of our variable annuity
products, as well as part of our capital hedging program described further below. As of December 31, 2011, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $21.749 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $358 million asset, and the
living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $2.886 billion liability. As of December 31, 2010, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $26.004 billion, and were reported at fair
value as a $353 million asset, and the living benefits features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $204 million asset. Our estimated equity price risk associated with living benefit features accounted for as
embedded derivatives, net of the related equity-based derivatives used in our living benefits hedging program, was a $433 million benefit as of December 31, 2011 and a $87 million benefit as of December 31, 2010, estimated based on a
hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. The higher sensitivity level as of December 31, 2011 primarily reflects a greater impact from our own risk of non-performance, driven by a higher base of embedded derivative
liabilities and widening credit spreads, as this risk does not have an offsetting impact on the hedge assets. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the impact of our own risk of non-performance on the
valuation of the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives. In addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2010, we have entered into equity index-linked derivative transactions that are designed to mitigate the impact of a
severe equity market stress event on statutory capital. The program focuses on tail risk to protect our capital in a cost-effective manner under stress scenarios. We continue to assess the composition of our hedging program on an ongoing basis, and
we may change it from time to time based on our evaluation of the Company’s risk position or other factors. Our estimated equity price risk associated with these capital hedges was a benefit of $9 million and $3 million as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels, which would partially offset an overall decline in our capital position related to the equity market decline. 
  While these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and
do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. These scenarios
consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy
acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. In
addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our
hedging strategy. The impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features, in comparison to the scenarios above. 
  Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates
   We are exposed to foreign currency exchange
rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries and foreign currency liability issuances. 
  Our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic
general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. We generally hedge substantially all
domestic general account foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into U.S. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments
fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. 
  255



Table of Contents
Our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign
currency risk:   


 
•
 
 First, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the
period. We hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. We generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency
exchange rates relating to our International operations primarily in Japan, Korea and Taiwan.   


 
•
 
 Second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into U.S. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement
period-end date. For our equity investments in our Japanese and Taiwanese operations, we generally hedge this exposure through a combination of issuing foreign denominated liabilities outside these operations and by holding U.S. dollar-denominated
securities in the investment portfolios of these operations.   


 
•
 
 Third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on
an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries’ investing in U.S. dollar-denominated investments. Most significantly, our Japanese operations hold investments denominated in U.S. dollars
and Australian dollars in their investment portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. These investments support product liabilities in the corresponding currencies. For a discussion of our Japanese operations’ investments
denominated in U.S. dollars and Australian dollars, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—General Account
Investments—Portfolio Composition,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—International Insurance
Division.”    We manage our
investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. Foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign
subsidiaries are managed using VaR-based analysis. This statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market
movements.    The estimated VaR as of
December 31, 2011 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was
$175 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $4.322 billion to $4.147 billion. The estimated VaR as of December 31, 2010 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general
account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $133 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these
foreign currency assets from $3.491 billion to $3.358 billion. The estimated one-month VaR as of December 31, 2011 increased driven by a higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during 2011. The average VaR for foreign currency
exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $137 million during 2011 and $125 million
during 2010. The average one-month VaR for 2011 increased in comparison to 2010 due to the higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during 2011. These calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence
level. We discuss limitations of VaR models below.   
The estimated VaR for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes
in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $135 million as of December 31, 2011 and $134 million as of December 31, 2010. The
increased VaR for foreign currency exchange risks primarily reflects an increase in the size of the investment portfolio driven by the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses on February 1, 2011, as well as increased volatility in
exchange rates for Japanese yen and Korean won. 
  256



Table of Contents
Derivatives 
  Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are
derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps,
futures, options and forward contracts. Derivatives also include guarantees we provide on investment-only, fee-based stable value products, which are classified as interest rate derivatives. We are also a party to financial instruments that may
contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. Additionally, we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial derivative transactions. We manage credit risk by
entering into derivative transactions with major international financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties, and by obtaining collateral where appropriate. Additionally, limits are set on single party credit exposures which are
subject to periodic management review. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our derivative activities and credit risk as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may
use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives
for speculative purposes. We use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency
exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. In addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. The notional amount of derivative
instruments increased $41 billion in 2011, from $180 billion as of December 31, 2010 to $221 billion as of December 31, 2011, driven by an increase in interest rate derivatives, primarily related to our variable annuity hedging activities,
and an increase in investment-only, fee-based stable value products sold in our retirement segment.    We use credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments, and purchase credit protection
using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio. For additional information regarding our exposure to credit derivatives, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—General Account Investments—Fixed Maturity Securities—Credit Derivative Exposure to Public Fixed Maturities.” 
  Trading Activities 
  Our derivatives trading operations engage in trading in a
non-dealer capacity, maintaining trading positions to manage interest rate, currency, credit and equity exposures in our insurance, investment and international businesses, and treasury operations. Our derivative transactions involve both
exchange-listed and over-the-counter contracts and are generally short-term in duration. Market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities
and commodity prices. We seek to use security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. Prior to the sale of our global commodities business on July 1, 2011, our
trading activities included those in which we acted as a broker, buying and selling exchange-listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. 
  Value-at-Risk 
  VaR is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our
exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. We calculate a VaR that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. The VaR method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is
exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors
and the correlations of those factors. The total VaR for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to
fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $0 million as of December 31, 2011 and $1 million as of December 31, 2010. The total average daily VaR for our trading activities considering our exposure to interest
rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million during both 2011 and 2010. 
  257



Table of Contents
Limitations of VaR Models    Although VaR models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including
reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. Accordingly, VaR models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. We may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the
amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our VaR models. A VaR model does not estimate the greatest possible loss.
The results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 
  258



Table of Contents


ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  INDEX   








 
  
PageNumber
 

 Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
  
 
260
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
261
  

 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
263
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
264
  

 Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
265
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
266
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
267
  

 Supplemental Combining Financial Information:
  




 Supplemental Combining Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2011 and
2010
  
 
429
  

 Supplemental Combining Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010
  
 
430
  

 Notes to Supplemental Combining Financial Information
  
 
431
  

  259



Table of Contents
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting    Management of Prudential
Financial, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness, as of
December 31, 2011, of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, based on the framework established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). Based on our assessment under that framework, management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 
  Our internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed by or under the supervision of our principal executive and principal financial officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
transactions and dispositions of assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.   
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing herein.    February 24, 2012 
  260



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
   To the Board of Directors
and Stockholders of  Prudential Financial, Inc.:    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed in the index appearing under Item 15.2 present
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management
is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedules, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included
in Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, listed in the accompanying index. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedules, and on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the
financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinions.    Our audits were conducted for
the purpose of forming an opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. The accompanying supplemental combining financial information is presented for the purposes of additional analysis of the consolidated financial statements
rather than to present the financial position and results of operations of the individual components. Such supplemental information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the consolidated financial statements and, in
our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.   
As described in Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements, on January 1, 2009, the Company changed its method of determining
and recording other-than-temporary impairment for debt securities.    A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  261



Table of Contents
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.   
/S/    PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP 
  New York, New York 
February 24, 2012 
  262



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 
December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except share amounts) 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 ASSETS
  



 




 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value (amortized cost: 2011-$240,424; 2010-$187,754)(1)
  
$
254,648
  
 
$
194,983
  

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost (fair value: 2011-$5,354; 2010-$5,477)(1)
  
 
5,107
  
 
 
5,226
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value(1)
  
 
19,481
  
 
 
17,771
  

 Other trading account assets, at fair value
  
 
5,545
  
 
 
4,225
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair value (cost: 2011-$6,922; 2010-$6,469)
  
 
7,535
  
 
 
7,741
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans (includes $603 and $364 measured at fair value under the fair value option at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively)(1)
  
 
35,431
  
 
 
31,831
  

 Policy loans
  
 
11,559
  
 
 
10,667
  

 Other long-term investments (includes $366 and $258 measured at fair value under the fair value option at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively)(1)
  
 
7,820
  
 
 
6,171
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
9,121
  
 
 
5,297
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
  
 
356,247
  
 
 
283,912
  

 Cash and cash equivalents(1)
  
 
14,251
  
 
 
12,915
  

 Accrued investment income(1)
  
 
2,793
  
 
 
2,377
  

 Deferred policy acquisition costs
  
 
16,790
  
 
 
16,435
  

 Other assets(1)
  
 
16,060
  
 
 
16,439
  

 Separate account assets(1)
  
 
218,380
  
 
 
207,776
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
  
$
624,521
  
 
$
539,854
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
  



 




 LIABILITIES
  



 




 Future policy benefits
  
$
170,459
  
 
$
133,874
  

 Policyholders’ account balances
  
 
134,552
  
 
 
106,441
  

 Policyholders’ dividends
  
 
5,797
  
 
 
3,378
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
  
 
6,218
  
 
 
5,885
  

 Cash collateral for loaned securities
  
 
2,973
  
 
 
2,171
  

 Income taxes
  
 
8,083
  
 
 
6,353
  

 Short-term debt
  
 
2,336
  
 
 
1,982
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
24,622
  
 
 
23,653
  

 Other liabilities (includes $282 and $0 measured at fair value under the fair value option at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively)(1)
  
 
13,290
  
 
 
15,413
  

 Separate account liabilities(1)
  
 
218,380
  
 
 
207,776
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
586,710
  
 
 
506,926
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (See Note 23)
  



 








 EQUITY
  



 




 Preferred Stock ($.01 par value; 10,000,000 shares authorized; none issued)
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Common Stock ($.01 par value; 1,500,000,000 shares authorized; 660,111,264 and 660,110,810 shares issued at December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively)
  
 
6
  
 
 
6
  

 Class B Stock ($.01 par value; 10,000,000 shares authorized; 2,000,000 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively)
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
24,293
  
 
 
24,223
  

 Common Stock held in treasury, at cost (192,072,613 and 176,312,047 shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively)
  
 
(11,920
) 
 
 
(11,173
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
5,563
  
 
 
2,978
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
19,281
  
 
 
16,381
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Prudential Financial, Inc. equity
  
 
37,223
  
 
 
32,415
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
588
  
 
 
513
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
  
 
37,811
  
 
 
32,928
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
  
$
624,521
  
 
$
539,854
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
See Note 5 for details of balances associated with variable interest entities. 
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements 
  263



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations 
Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in millions, except per share amounts) 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 REVENUES
  



 



 




 Premiums
  
$
24,338
  
 
$
18,260
  
 
$
16,545
  

 Policy charges and fee income
  
 
3,924
  
 
 
3,321
  
 
 
2,833
  

 Net investment income
  
 
13,124
  
 
 
11,865
  
 
 
11,390
  

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
4,828
  
 
 
3,704
  
 
 
4,509
  

 Realized investment gains (losses), net:
  



 



 




 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities
  
 
(2,202
) 
 
 
(3,016
) 
 
 
(3,721
) 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities transferred to Other Comprehensive Income
  
 
1,667
  
 
 
2,284
  
 
 
2,027
  

 Other realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
3,366
  
 
 
1,782
  
 
 
(1,203
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
2,831
  
 
 
1,050
  
 
 
(2,897
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
 
49,045
  
 
 
38,200
  
 
 
32,380
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BENEFITS AND EXPENSES
  



 



 




 Policyholders’ benefits
  
 
23,614
  
 
 
18,285
  
 
 
16,346
  

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances
  
 
4,484
  
 
 
4,209
  
 
 
4,484
  

 Dividends to policyholders
  
 
2,723
  
 
 
2,189
  
 
 
1,298
  

 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
  
 
3,292
  
 
 
1,437
  
 
 
1,494
  

 General and administrative expenses
  
 
9,815
  
 
 
7,688
  
 
 
7,234
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total benefits and expenses
  
 
43,928
  
 
 
33,808
  
 
 
30,856
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF OPERATING JOINT VENTURES
  
 
5,117
  
 
 
4,392
  
 
 
1,524
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income taxes:
  



 



 




 Current
  
 
447
  
 
 
(368
) 
 
 
(116
) 

 Deferred
  
 
1,152
  
 
 
1,671
  
 
 
54
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
1,599
  
 
 
1,303
  
 
 
(62
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF OPERATING JOINT VENTURES
  
 
3,518
  
 
 
3,089
  
 
 
1,586
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes
  
 
185
  
 
 
84
  
 
 
1,523
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
  
 
3,703
  
 
 
3,173
  
 
 
3,109
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
 
35
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
(19
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
  
 
3,738
  
 
 
3,206
  
 
 
3,090
  

 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
72
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
(34
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC
  
$
3,666
  
 
$
3,195
  
 
$
3,124
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EARNINGS PER SHARE (See Note 16)
  



 



 




 Financial Services Businesses
  



 



 




 Basic:
  



 



 




 Income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Common Stock
  
$
7.23
  
 
$
5.75
  
 
$
7.72
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
 
0.08
  
 
 
0.07
  
 
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Common Stock
  
$
7.31
  
 
$
5.82
  
 
$
7.68
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted:
  



 



 




 Income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Common Stock
  
$
7.14
  
 
$
5.68
  
 
$
7.67
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
 
0.08
  
 
 
0.07
  
 
 
(0.04
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Common Stock
  
$
7.22
  
 
$
5.75
  
 
$
7.63
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared per share of Common Stock
  
$
1.45
  
 
$
1.15
  
 
$
0.70
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Closed Block Business
  



 



 




 Basic and Diluted:
  



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Class B Stock
  
$
55.50
  
 
$
222.00
  
 
$
(165.00
) 

 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.50
  
 
 
0.00
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Class B Stock
  
$
55.50
  
 
$
222.50
  
 
$
(165.00
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared per share of Class B Stock
  
$
9.625
  
 
$
9.625
  
 
$
9.625
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements 
  264



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
 
Consolidated Statements of Equity(1) 
Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in millions) 
 




































 
 
CommonStock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
CommonStockHeld inTreasury
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (loss)
 
 
TotalPrudentialFinancial, Inc.Equity
 
 
NoncontrollingInterests
 
 
TotalEquity
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
 
$
6
  
 
$
22,001
  
 
$
10,426
  
 
$
(11,655
) 
 
$
(7,343
) 
 
$
13,435
  
 
$
351
  
 
$
13,786
  

 Common Stock issued
 



 
 
1,391
  
 



 



 



 
 
1,391
  
 



 
 
1,391
  

 Contributions from noncontrolling interests
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
277
  
 
 
277
  

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(31
) 
 
 
(31
) 

 Consolidations/deconsolidations of noncontrolling interests
 



 
 
(63
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(63
) 
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
(85
) 

 Stock-based compensation programs
 



 
 
15
  
 
 
(76
) 
 
 
265
  
 



 
 
204
  
 



 
 
204
  

 Dividends declared on Common Stock
 



 



 
 
(327
) 
 



 



 
 
(327
) 
 



 
 
(327
) 

 Dividends declared on Class B Stock
 



 



 
 
(19
) 
 



 



 
 
(19
) 
 



 
 
(19
) 

 Impact on Company’s investment in Wachovia Securities due to addition of A.G Edwards business, net of tax
(2)
 



 
 
(109
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(109
) 
 



 
 
(109
) 

 Impact of adoption of guidance for other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities, net of taxes
 



 



 
 
659
  
 



 
 
(659
) 
 
 
0
  
 



 
 
0
  

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 



 



 
 
3,124
  
 



 



 
 
3,124
  
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
3,090
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 



 



 



 



 
 
7,559
  
 
 
7,559
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
7,552
  


 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income (loss)
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
10,683
  
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
10,642
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
 
6
  
 
 
23,235
  
 
 
13,787
  
 
 
(11,390
) 
 
 
(443
) 
 
 
25,195
  
 
 
534
  
 
 
25,729
  

 Common Stock issued
 



 
 
970
  
 



 



 



 
 
970
  
 



 
 
970
  

 Contributions from noncontrolling interests
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
7
  
 
 
7
  

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
(53
) 
 
 
(53
) 

 Consolidations/deconsolidations of noncontrolling interests
 



 
 
(2
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(3
) 

 Stock-based compensation programs
 



 
 
20
  
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
217
  
 



 
 
219
  
 



 
 
219
  

 Dividends declared on Common Stock
 



 



 
 
(564
) 
 



 



 
 
(564
) 
 



 
 
(564
) 

 Dividends declared on Class B Stock
 



 



 
 
(19
) 
 



 



 
 
(19
) 
 



 
 
(19
) 

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 



 



 
 
3,195
  
 



 



 
 
3,195
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
3,206
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 



 



 



 



 
 
3,421
  
 
 
3,421
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
3,436
  


 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income (loss)
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
6,616
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
6,642
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
 
6
  
 
 
24,223
  
 
 
16,381
  
 
 
(11,173
) 
 
 
2,978
  
 
 
32,415
  
 
 
513
  
 
 
32,928
  

 Common Stock acquired
 



 



 



 
 
(999
) 
 



 
 
(999
) 
 



 
 
(999
) 

 Contributions from noncontrolling interests
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
0
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
9
  

 Distributions to noncontrolling interests
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
0
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(15
) 

 Consolidations/deconsolidations of noncontrolling interests
 



 
 
0
  
 



 



 



 
 
0
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
53
  

 Stock-based compensation programs
 



 
 
70
  
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
252
  
 



 
 
264
  
 



 
 
264
  

 Dividends declared on Common Stock
 



 



 
 
(689
) 
 



 



 
 
(689
) 
 



 
 
(689
) 

 Dividends declared on Class B Stock
 



 



 
 
(19
) 
 



 



 
 
(19
) 
 



 
 
(19
) 

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 



 



 
 
3,666
  
 



 



 
 
3,666
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
3,738
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 



 



 



 



 
 
2,585
  
 
 
2,585
  
 
 
(44
) 
 
 
2,541
  


 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income (loss)
 



 



 



 



 



 
 
6,251
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
6,279
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
$
6
  
 
$
24,293
  
 
$
19,281
  
 
$
(11,920
) 
 
$
5,563
  
 
$
37,223
  
 
$
588
  
 
$
37,811
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Class B Stock is not presented as the amounts are immaterial. 


(2)
 
See Note 7. 
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements 
  265



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in millions) 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
3,738
 
 
$
3,206
  
 
$
3,090
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Realized investment (gains) losses, net
  
 
(2,831
) 
 
 
(1,050
) 
 
 
2,897
  

 Policy charges and fee income
  
 
(1,147
) 
 
 
(976
) 
 
 
(1,152
) 

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances
  
 
4,484
  
 
 
4,209
  
 
 
4,484
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
290
  
 
 
(104
) 
 
 
175
  

 (Gains) losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net
  
 
(235
) 
 
 
(501
) 
 
 
(1,601
) 

 Gain on sale of joint venture in Wachovia Securities
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,247
) 

 Change in:
  



 



 




 Deferred policy acquisition costs
  
 
(605
) 
 
 
(1,654
) 
 
 
(1,277
) 

 Future policy benefits and other insurance liabilities
  
 
6,761
  
 
 
4,475
  
 
 
2,524
  

 Other trading account assets
  
 
329
  
 
 
(644
) 
 
 
45
  

 Income taxes
  
 
(83
) 
 
 
(1,133
) 
 
 
1,101
  

 Other, net
  
 
1,676
  
 
 
714
  
 
 
(2,199
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from operating activities
  
 
12,377
  
 
 
6,542
  
 
 
5,840
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Proceeds from the sale/maturity/prepayment of:
  



 



 




 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
 
42,548
  
 
 
28,561
  
 
 
42,221
  

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  
 
455
  
 
 
470
  
 
 
378
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other trading account assets
  
 
22,388
  
 
 
39,150
  
 
 
38,782
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
3,742
  
 
 
2,485
  
 
 
2,246
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
4,814
  
 
 
4,379
  
 
 
3,767
  

 Policy loans
  
 
2,035
  
 
 
1,714
  
 
 
1,688
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
2,120
  
 
 
1,071
  
 
 
1,160
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
27,098
  
 
 
20,896
  
 
 
25,905
  

 Payments for the purchase/origination of:
  



 



 




 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
 
(52,045
) 
 
 
(38,213
) 
 
 
(42,911
) 

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  
 
(76
) 
 
 
(199
) 
 
 
(1,122
) 

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other trading account assets
  
 
(23,684
) 
 
 
(39,744
) 
 
 
(40,085
) 

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
(3,080
) 
 
 
(2,461
) 
 
 
(1,665
) 

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
(6,829
) 
 
 
(4,760
) 
 
 
(2,755
) 

 Policy loans
  
 
(1,815
) 
 
 
(1,547
) 
 
 
(1,593
) 

 Other long-term investments
  
 
(1,865
) 
 
 
(824
) 
 
 
(1,018
) 

 Short-term investments
  
 
(26,962
) 
 
 
(19,922
) 
 
 
(26,876
) 

 Proceeds from sale of joint venture in Wachovia Securities
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,500
  

 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired.
  
 
(2,321
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Other, net
  
 
182
 
 
 
422
  
 
 
(193
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from (used in) investing activities
  
 
(13,295
) 
 
 
(8,522
) 
 
 
2,429
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Policyholders’ account deposits
  
 
24,336
 
 
 
22,271
  
 
 
23,464
  

 Policyholders’ account withdrawals
  
 
(22,564
) 
 
 
(22,176
) 
 
 
(26,187
) 

 Net change in securities sold under agreements to repurchase and cash collateral for loaned securities
  
 
1,126
 
 
 
(863
) 
 
 
(2,677
) 

 Proceeds from the issuance of Common Stock
  
 
0
 
 
 
970
  
 
 
1,391
  

 Cash dividends paid on Common Stock
  
 
(685
) 
 
 
(556
) 
 
 
(328
) 

 Cash dividends paid on Class B Stock
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
(19
) 

 Net change in financing arrangements (maturities 90 days or less)
  
 
104
 
 
 
684
  
 
 
(4,566
) 

 Common Stock acquired
  
 
(999
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Common Stock reissued for exercise of stock options
  
 
122
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
64
  

 Proceeds from the issuance of debt (maturities longer than 90 days)
  
 
2,266
  
 
 
4,561
  
 
 
5,314
  

 Repayments of debt (maturities longer than 90 days)
  
 
(1,739
) 
 
 
(3,738
) 
 
 
(7,130
) 

 Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements
  
 
20
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
2
  

 Other, net
  
 
131
  
 
 
369
  
 
 
251
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from (used in) financing activities
  
 
2,099
  
 
 
1,613
  
 
 
(10,421
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash balances
  
 
155
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
288
  

 NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  
 
1,336
  
 
 
(249
) 
 
 
(1,864
) 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF YEAR
  
 
12,915
  
 
 
13,164
  
 
 
15,028
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR
  
$
14,251
  
 
$
12,915
  
 
$
13,164
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
  



 



 




 Income taxes paid (received)
  
$
809
  
 
$
893
  
 
$
(109
) 

 Interest paid
  
$
1,285
  
 
$
1,197
  
 
$
1,181
  

 NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS DURING THE YEAR
  



 



 




 Impact on Company’s investment in Wachovia Securities due to addition of A.G. Edwards business, net of tax
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
(109
) 

 Treasury Stock shares issued for stock-based compensation programs
  
$
77
  
 
$
74
  
 
$
100
  

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements 
  266



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
1.    BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION 
  Prudential Financial, Inc.
(“Prudential Financial”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Prudential” or the “Company”) provide a wide range of insurance, investment management, and other financial products and services to both individual and
institutional customers throughout the United States and in many other countries. Principal products and services provided include life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, and investment management. The Company has
organized its principal operations into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses operate through three operating divisions: U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S.
Individual Life and Group Insurance, and International Insurance. The Company’s businesses that are not sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure and divested businesses, are included in Corporate and Other operations within the
Financial Services Businesses. The Closed Block Business, which includes the Closed Block (see Note 12), is managed separately from the Financial Services Businesses. The Closed Block Business was established on the date of demutualization and
includes the Company’s in force participating insurance and annuity products and assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholders’ dividends on these products, as well as other assets and equity that support these
products and related liabilities. In connection with the demutualization, the Company ceased offering these participating products.  
Demutualization   
On December 18, 2001 (the “date of demutualization”), The Prudential Insurance Company of America (“Prudential
Insurance”) converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock life insurance company and became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. At the time of demutualization Prudential Financial issued two classes of
common stock, both of which remain outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded, reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, and the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement, reflects the performance
of the Closed Block Business.    Basis of Presentation
   The Consolidated Financial Statements
include the accounts of Prudential Financial, entities over which the Company exercises control, including majority-owned subsidiaries and minority-owned entities such as limited partnerships in which the Company is the general partner, and variable
interest entities in which the Company is considered the primary beneficiary. See Note 5 for more information on the Company’s consolidated variable interest entities. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.   
The Company’s Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (“Gibraltar Life”) consolidated operations and the recently acquired
AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, AIG Financial Assurance Japan K.K., and AIG Edison Service Co., Ltd. (collectively the “Star and Edison Businesses”) use a November 30 fiscal year end for purposes
of inclusion in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Therefore, the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 include the assets and liabilities of Gibraltar Life as of November 30, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, and for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, include Gibraltar Life’s results of operations for the twelve months ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Consolidated Financial Statements
as of December 31, 2011, include the assets and liabilities of the Star and Edison Businesses as of November 30, 2011 and the results of operations for the Star and Edison Businesses from February 1, 2011, the acquisition date,
through November 30, 2011.    Use of Estimates
   The preparation of financial statements
in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
  267



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The most significant estimates include those used in determining deferred policy
acquisition costs and related amortization; value of business acquired and its amortization; amortization of sales inducements; measurement of goodwill and any related impairment; valuation of investments including derivatives and the recognition of
other-than-temporary impairments; future policy benefits including guarantees; pension and other postretirement benefits; provision for income taxes and valuation of deferred tax assets; and reserves for contingent liabilities, including reserves
for losses in connection with unresolved legal matters.  
Reclassifications   
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. 
 
2.    SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND PRONOUNCEMENTS 
  Share-Based Payments 
  The Company recognizes the cost resulting from all
share-based payments in accordance with the authoritative guidance on accounting for stock based compensation and applies the fair value-based measurement method in accounting for share-based payment transactions with employees except for equity
instruments held by employee share ownership plans. The Company accounts for excess tax benefits in additional paid-in capital as a single “pool” available to all share-based compensation awards. The Company does not recognize excess tax
benefits in additional paid-in capital until the benefits result in a reduction in taxes payable. The Company has elected the “tax-law ordering methodology” and has adopted a convention that considers excess tax benefits to be the last
portion of a net operating loss carryforward to be utilized.    The Company accounts for non-employee stock options using the fair value method in accordance with authoritative guidance and related interpretations on accounting for equity instruments that are issued
to other than employees for acquiring, or in conjunction with selling, goods or services.    Earnings Per Share    As discussed in Note 1, the Company has outstanding two separate classes of common stock. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing available income attributable to each of the two groups of common
shareholders by the respective weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share includes the effect of all dilutive potential common shares that were outstanding during the period. 
  As discussed under “Share-Based Payments” above,
the Company accounts for excess tax benefits in additional paid-in capital as a single “pool” available to all share-based compensation awards. The Company reflects in assumed proceeds, based on application of the treasury stock method,
the excess tax benefits that would be recognized in additional paid-in capital upon exercise or release of the award.   
Investments and Investment-Related Liabilities   
The Company’s principal investments are fixed maturities; equity securities; commercial mortgage and other loans; policy loans; other
long-term investments, including joint ventures (other than operating joint ventures), limited partnerships, and real estate; and short-term investments. Investments and investment-related liabilities also include securities repurchase and resale
agreements and securities lending transactions. The accounting policies related to each are as follows:   
Fixed maturities are comprised of bonds, notes and redeemable preferred stock. Fixed maturities classified as
“available-for-sale” are carried at fair value. See Note 20 for additional information regarding the 
  268



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

determination of fair value. Fixed maturities that the Company has both the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are carried at amortized cost and classified as
“held-to-maturity.” The amortized cost of fixed maturities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Interest income, as well as the related amortization of premium and accretion of discount, is
included in “Net investment income” under the effective yield method. For mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, the effective yield is based on estimated cash flows, including prepayment assumptions based on data from widely
accepted third-party data sources or internal estimates. In addition to prepayment assumptions, cash flow estimates vary based on assumptions regarding the underlying collateral, including default rates and changes in value. These assumptions can
significantly impact income recognition and the amount of other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings and other comprehensive income. For high credit quality mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities (those rated AA or above), cash
flows are provided quarterly, and the amortized cost and effective yield of the security are adjusted as necessary to reflect historical prepayment experience and changes in estimated future prepayments. The adjustments to amortized cost are
recorded as a charge or credit to net investment income in accordance with the retrospective method. For asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities rated below AA, the effective yield is adjusted prospectively for any changes in estimated cash
flows. See the discussion below on realized investment gains and losses for a description of the accounting for impairments. Unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturities classified as “available-for-sale,” net of tax, and the effect on
deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired, deferred sales inducements, future policy benefits and policyholders’ dividends that would result from the realization of unrealized gains and losses, are included in
“Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).”    “Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value” includes invested assets that support certain products included in the Retirement segment, as well as certain products
included in the International Insurance segment, which are experience rated, meaning that the investment results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these
investments are reported in “Asset management fees and other income.” Interest and dividend income from these investments is reported in “Net investment income.”    “Other trading account assets, at fair value” consist primarily of fixed maturities, equity
securities, including certain perpetual preferred stock, and certain derivatives, including those used by the Company in its capacity as a broker-dealer and derivative hedging positions used in a non-broker-dealer capacity primarily to hedge the
risks related to certain products. These instruments are carried at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these investments and on derivatives used by the Company in its capacity as a broker-dealer are reported in “Asset
management fees and other income” and, for those related to the Company’s global commodities group, in “Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes.” Interest and dividend income from these investments is reported in
“Net investment income” and, for those related to the Company’s global commodities group, in “Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes.” 
  Equity securities available-for-sale are comprised of common
stock, mutual fund shares, non-redeemable preferred stock, and certain perpetual preferred stock, and are carried at fair value. The associated unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, and the effect on deferred policy acquisition costs, value of
business acquired, deferred sales inducements, future policy benefits and policyholders’ dividends that would result from the realization of unrealized gains and losses, are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).”
The cost of equity securities is written down to fair value when a decline in value is considered to be other-than-temporary. See the discussion below on realized investment gains and losses for a description of the accounting for impairments.
Dividends from these investments are recognized in “Net investment income” when declared.    Commercial mortgage and other loans consist of commercial mortgage loans, agricultural loans, loans backed by residential properties, as well as certain other collateralized and uncollateralized loans.
Commercial mortgage loans are broken down by class which is based on property type (industrial properties, retail, office, multi-family/apartment, hospitality, and other). Loans backed by residential properties primarily include recourse loans held
by the Company’s international insurance businesses. Other collateralized loans primarily include 
  269



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

senior loans made by the Company’s international insurance businesses and loans made to the Company’s real estate franchisees. Uncollateralized loans primarily represent reverse dual
currency loans and corporate loans held by the Company’s international insurance businesses.    Commercial mortgage and other loans originated and held for investment are generally carried at unpaid principal balance, net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and expenses, and net of an
allowance for losses. Commercial mortgage loans originated within the Company’s commercial mortgage operations include loans held for sale which are reported at the lower of cost or fair value; loans held for investment which are reported at
amortized cost net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and expenses, and net of an allowance for losses; and loans reported at fair value under the fair value option. Commercial mortgage and other loans acquired, including those related to
the acquisition of a business, are recorded at fair value when purchased, reflecting any premiums or discounts to unpaid principal balances.   
Interest income, as well as prepayment fees and the amortization of the related premiums or discounts, related to commercial mortgage and
other loans, are included in “Net investment income.”    Impaired loans include those loans for which it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not all be collected. The Company defines “past due” as
principal or interest not collected at least 30 days past the scheduled contractual due date. Interest received on loans that are past due, including impaired and non-impaired loans as well as loans that were previously modified in a troubled debt
restructuring, is either applied against the principal or reported as net investment income based on the Company’s assessment as to the collectability of the principal. See Note 4 for additional information about the Company’s past due
loans.    The Company discontinues accruing interest
on loans after the loans become 90 days delinquent as to principal or interest payments, or earlier when the Company has doubts about collectability. When the Company discontinues accruing interest on a loan, any accrued but uncollectible interest
on the loan and other loans backed by the same collateral, if any, is charged to interest income in the same period. Generally, a loan is restored to accrual status only after all delinquent interest and principal are brought current and, in the
case of loans where the payment of interest has been interrupted for a substantial period, or the loan has been modified, a regular payment performance has been established. 
  The Company reviews the performance and credit quality of the
commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio on an on-going basis. Loans are placed on watch list status based on a predefined set of criteria and are assigned one of three categories. Loans are placed on “early warning” status in cases
where, based on the Company’s analysis of the loan’s collateral, the financial situation of the borrower or tenants or other market factors, it is believed a loss of principal or interest could occur. Loans are classified as “closely
monitored” when it is determined that there is a collateral deficiency or other credit events that may lead to a potential loss of principal or interest. Loans “not in good standing” are those loans where the Company has concluded
that there is a high probability of loss of principal, such as when the loan is delinquent or in the process of foreclosure. As described below, in determining the allowance for losses, the Company evaluates each loan on the watch list to determine
if it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected.   
Loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios are measures commonly used to assess the quality of commercial mortgage loans. The
loan-to-value ratio compares the amount of the loan to the fair value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan, and is commonly expressed as a percentage. Loan-to-value ratios greater than 100% indicate that the loan amount exceeds the
collateral value. A smaller loan-to-value ratio indicates a greater excess of collateral value over the loan amount. The debt service coverage ratio compares a property’s net operating income to its debt service payments. Debt service coverage
ratios less than 1.0 times indicate that property operations do not generate enough income to cover the loan’s current debt payments. A larger debt service coverage ratio indicates a greater excess of net operating income over the debt service

  270



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

payments. The values utilized in calculating these ratios are developed as part of the Company’s periodic review of the commercial mortgage loan and agricultural loan portfolio, which
includes an internal appraisal of the underlying collateral value. The Company’s periodic review also includes a quality re-rating process, whereby the internal quality rating originally assigned at underwriting is updated based on current
loan, property and market information using a proprietary quality rating system. The loan-to-value ratio is the most significant of several inputs used to establish the internal credit rating of a loan which in turn drives the allowance for losses.
Other key factors considered in determining the internal credit rating include debt service coverage ratios, amortization, loan term, estimated market value growth rate and volatility for the property type and region. See Note 4 for additional
information related to the loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios related to the Company’s commercial mortgage and agricultural loan portfolios. 
  Loans backed by residential properties, other collateralized
loans, and uncollateralized loans are also reviewed periodically. Each loan is assigned an internal or external credit rating. Internal credit ratings take into consideration various factors including financial ratios and qualitative assessments
based on non-financial information. In cases where there are personal or third party guarantors, the credit quality of the guarantor is also reviewed. These factors are used in developing the allowance for losses. Based on the diversity of the loans
in these categories and their immateriality, the Company has not disclosed the credit quality indicators related to these loans in Note 4.   
For those loans not reported at fair value, the allowance for losses includes a loan specific reserve for each impaired loan that has a
specifically identified loss and a portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. For impaired commercial mortgage and other loans the allowances for losses are determined based on the present value of expected
future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, or based upon the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The portfolio reserves for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses in the
commercial mortgage and agricultural loan portfolio segments considers the current credit composition of the portfolio based on an internal quality rating, (as described above). The portfolio reserves are determined using past loan experience,
including historical credit migration, loss probability and loss severity factors by property type. These factors are reviewed each quarter and updated as appropriate. 
  The allowance for losses on commercial mortgage and other
loans can increase or decrease from period to period based on the factors noted above. “Realized investment gains (losses), net” includes changes in the allowance for losses and changes in value for loans accounted for under the fair value
option. “Realized investment gains (losses), net” also includes gains and losses on sales, certain restructurings, and foreclosures.   
When a commercial mortgage or other loan is deemed to be uncollectible, any specific valuation allowance associated with the loan is
reversed and a direct write down to the carrying amount of the loan is made. The carrying amount of the loan is not adjusted for subsequent recoveries in value.   
Commercial mortgage and other loans are occasionally restructured in a troubled debt restructuring. These restructurings generally include
one or more of the following: full or partial payoffs outside of the original contract terms; changes to interest rates; extensions of maturity; or additions or modifications to covenants. Additionally, the Company may accept assets in full or
partial satisfaction of the debt as part of a troubled debt restructuring. When restructurings occur, they are evaluated individually to determine whether the restructuring or modification constitutes a “troubled debt restructuring” as
defined by authoritative accounting guidance. If the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty and the Company has granted a concession, the restructuring, including those that involve a partial payoff or the receipt of assets in full
satisfaction of the debt is deemed to be a troubled debt restructuring. Based on the Company’s credit review process described above, these loans generally would have been deemed impaired prior to the troubled debt restructuring, and specific
allowances for losses would have been established prior to the determination that a troubled debt restructuring has occurred.   
In a troubled debt restructuring where the Company receives assets in full satisfaction of the debt, any specific valuation allowance is
reversed and a direct write down of the loan is recorded for the amount of the 
  271



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

allowance, and any additional loss, net of recoveries, or any gain is recorded for the difference between the fair value of the assets received and the recorded investment in the loan. When
assets are received in partial settlement, the same process is followed, and the remaining loan is evaluated prospectively for impairment based on the credit review process noted above. When a loan is restructured in a troubled debt restructuring,
the impairment of the loan is remeasured using the modified terms and the loan’s original effective yield, and the allowance for loss is adjusted accordingly. Subsequent to the modification, income is recognized prospectively based on the
modified terms of the loans in accordance with the income recognition policy noted above. Additionally, the loan continues to be subject to the credit review process noted above. 
  In situations where a loan has been restructured in a
troubled debt restructuring and the loan has subsequently defaulted, this factor is considered when evaluating the loan for a specific allowance for losses in accordance with the credit review process noted above. 
  See Note 4 for additional information about commercial
mortgage and other loans that have been restructured in a troubled debt restructuring.    “Policy loans” are carried at unpaid principal balances. Interest income on policy loans is recognized in net investment income at the contract interest rate when earned. Policy loans are fully
collateralized by the cash surrender value of the associated insurance policies.    Securities repurchase and resale agreements and securities loaned transactions are used to earn spread income, to borrow funds, or to facilitate trading activity. Securities repurchase and resale
agreements are generally short-term in nature, and therefore, the carrying amounts of these instruments approximate fair value. As part of securities repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions, the Company transfers either corporate
debt securities, or U.S. government and government agency securities and receives cash as collateral. As part of securities resale agreements, the Company transfers cash as collateral and receives U.S. government securities. For securities
repurchase agreements and securities loaned transactions used to earn spread income, the cash received is typically invested in cash equivalents, short-term investments or fixed maturities.    Securities repurchase and resale agreements that satisfy certain criteria are treated as collateralized
financing arrangements. These agreements are carried at the amounts at which the securities will be subsequently resold or reacquired, as specified in the respective agreements. For securities purchased under agreements to resell, the Company’s
policy is to take possession or control of the securities and to value the securities daily. Securities to be resold are the same, or substantially the same, as the securities received. For securities sold under agreements to repurchase, the market
value of the securities to be repurchased is monitored, and additional collateral is obtained where appropriate, to protect against credit exposure. Securities to be repurchased are the same, or substantially the same, as those sold. Income and
expenses related to these transactions executed within the insurance companies used to earn spread income are reported as “Net investment income;” however, for transactions used to borrow funds, the associated borrowing cost is reported as
interest expense (included in “General and administrative expenses”). Income and expenses related to these transactions executed within the Company’s derivative operations are reported in “Asset management fees and other
income.” Income and expenses related to these transactions executed within the Company’s global commodities group are reported in “Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes.” 
  Securities loaned transactions are treated as financing
arrangements and are recorded at the amount of cash received. The Company obtains collateral in an amount equal to 102% and 105% of the fair value of the domestic and foreign securities, respectively. The Company monitors the market value of the
securities loaned on a daily basis with additional collateral obtained as necessary. Substantially all of the Company’s securities loaned transactions are with large brokerage firms. Income and expenses associated with securities loaned
transactions used to earn spread income are reported as “Net investment income;” however, for securities loaned transactions used for funding purposes the associated rebate is reported as interest expense (included in “General and
administrative expenses”). 
  272



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
“Other long-term investments” consist of the Company’s investments in
joint ventures and limited partnerships, other than operating joint ventures, as well as wholly-owned investment real estate and other investments. Joint venture and partnership interests are generally accounted for using the equity method of
accounting. In certain instances in which the Company’s partnership interest is so minor (generally less than 3%) that it exercises virtually no influence over operating and financial policies, the Company applies the cost method of accounting.
The Company’s income from investments in joint ventures and partnerships accounted for using the equity method or the cost method, other than the Company’s investment in operating joint ventures, is included in “Net investment
income.” The carrying value of these investments is written down, or impaired, to fair value when a decline in value is considered to be other-than-temporary. In applying the equity method or the cost method (including assessment for
other-than-temporary impairment), the Company uses financial information provided by the investee, generally on a one to three month lag. The Company consolidates joint ventures and limited partnerships in certain other instances where it is deemed
to exercise control, or is considered the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. Certain of these consolidated joint ventures and limited partnerships relate to investment structures in which the Company’s asset management business
invests with other co-investors in an investment fund referred to as a feeder fund. In these structures, the invested capital of several feeder funds is pooled together and used to purchase ownership interests in another fund, referred to as a
master fund. The master fund utilizes this invested capital, and in certain cases other debt financing, to purchase various classes of assets on behalf of its investors. Specialized industry accounting for investment companies calls for the feeder
fund to reflect its investment in the master fund as a single net asset equal to its proportionate share of the net assets of the master fund, regardless of its level of interest in the master fund. In cases where the Company consolidates the feeder
fund, it retains the feeder fund’s net asset presentation and reports the consolidated feeder fund’s proportionate share of the net assets of the master fund in “Other long-term investments,” with any unaffiliated investors’
noncontrolling interest in the feeder fund reported in “Other liabilities” or “Noncontrolling interests.” The Company’s net income from consolidated joint ventures and limited partnerships, including these consolidated
feeder funds, is included in the respective revenue and expense line items depending on the activity of the consolidated entity.   
The Company’s wholly-owned investment real estate consists of real estate which the Company has the intent to hold for the production
of income as well as real estate held for sale. Real estate which the Company has the intent to hold for the production of income is carried at depreciated cost less any writedowns to fair value for impairment losses and is reviewed for impairment
whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Real estate held for sale is carried at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value less estimated selling costs and is not further depreciated once classified
as such. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying value of the investment real estate exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows (excluding interest charges) from the investment. At that time, the carrying value of the investment
real estate is written down to fair value. Decreases in the carrying value of investment real estate held for the production of income due to other-than-temporary impairments are recorded in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.”
Depreciation on real estate held for the production of income is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated lives of the properties, and is included in “Net investment income.” In the period a real estate investment is
deemed held for sale and meets all of the discontinued operation criteria, the Company reports all related net investment income and any resulting investment gains and losses as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 
  “Short-term investments” primarily consist of
highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity of greater than three months and less than twelve months when purchased, other than those debt instruments meeting this definition that are included in “Trading account assets supporting insurance
liabilities, at fair value.” These investments are generally carried at fair value and include certain money market investments, short-term debt securities issued by government sponsored entities and other highly liquid debt instruments.
Short-term investments held in the Company’s former broker-dealer operations were marked-to-market through “Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes.” 
  Realized investment gains (losses) are computed using the
specific identification method with the exception of some of the Company’s International Insurance businesses’ portfolios, where the average cost method is used. 
  273



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

Realized investment gains and losses are generated from numerous sources, including the sale of fixed maturity securities, equity securities, investments in joint ventures and limited
partnerships and other types of investments, as well as adjustments to the cost basis of investments for net other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings. Realized investment gains and losses are also generated from prepayment premiums
received on private fixed maturity securities, allowance for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans, fair value changes on commercial mortgage loans carried at fair value, and fair value changes on embedded derivatives and free-standing
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, except those derivatives used in the Company’s capacity as a broker or dealer.   
The Company’s available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities with unrealized losses are reviewed quarterly to identify
other-than-temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary, the Company considers several factors including, but not limited to the following: (1) the extent and the duration of the decline;
(2) the reasons for the decline in value (credit event, currency or interest-rate related, including general credit spread widening); and (3) the financial condition of and near-term prospects of the issuer. With regard to
available-for-sale equity securities, the Company also considers the ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. When it is determined that a decline in value of an equity security is
other-than-temporary, the carrying value of the equity security is reduced to its fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings.   
Under the authoritative guidance for the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments for debt securities, an
other-than-temporary impairment must be recognized in earnings for a debt security in an unrealized loss position when an entity either (a) has the intent to sell the debt security or (b) more likely than not will be required to sell the
debt security before its anticipated recovery. For all debt securities in unrealized loss positions that do not meet either of these two criteria, the guidance requires that the Company analyze its ability to recover the amortized cost by comparing
the net present value of projected future cash flows with the amortized cost of the security. The net present value is calculated by discounting the Company’s best estimate of projected future cash flows at the effective interest rate implicit
in the debt security prior to impairment. The Company may use the estimated fair value of collateral as a proxy for the net present value if it believes that the security is dependent on the liquidation of collateral for recovery of its investment.
If the net present value is less than the amortized cost of the investment, an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. In addition to the above mentioned circumstances, the Company also recognizes an other-than-temporary impairment in
earnings when a non-functional currency denominated security in an unrealized loss position due to currency exchange rates approaches maturity.   
Under the authoritative guidance for the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments, when an other-than-temporary
impairment of a debt security has occurred, the amount of the other-than-temporary impairment recognized in earnings depends on whether the Company intends to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before
recovery of its amortized cost basis. If the debt security meets either of these two criteria or the foreign currency translation loss is not expected to be recovered before maturity, the other-than-temporary impairment recognized in earnings is
equal to the entire difference between the security’s amortized cost basis and its fair value at the impairment measurement date. For other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities that do not meet these criteria, the net amount recognized
in earnings is equal to the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and its net present value calculated as described above. Any difference between the fair value and the net present value of the debt security at the impairment
measurement date is recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss).” Unrealized gains or losses on securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment has been recognized in earnings is tracked as a separate component of
“Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).”    For debt securities, the split between the amount of an other-than-temporary impairment recognized in other comprehensive income and the net amount recognized in earnings is driven principally by
assumptions regarding the amount and timing of projected cash flows. For mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, cash flow estimates consider the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security, including

  274



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

prepayment assumptions, and are based on data from widely accepted third-party data sources or internal estimates. In addition to prepayment assumptions, cash flow estimates include assumptions
regarding the underlying collateral including default rates and recoveries, which vary based on the asset type and geographic location, as well as the vintage year of the security. For structured securities, the payment priority within the tranche
structure is also considered. For all other debt securities, cash flow estimates are driven by assumptions regarding probability of default and estimates regarding timing and amount of recoveries associated with a default. The Company has developed
these estimates using information based on its historical experience as well as using market observable data, such as industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings and other data relevant to the collectability of a security, such as
the general payment terms of the security and the security’s position within the capital structure of the issuer.   
The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in estimated fair value. In periods subsequent to the
recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment, the impaired security is accounted for as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of the impairment. For debt securities, the discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis may
be accreted into net investment income in future periods, including increases in cash flow on a prospective basis. In certain cases where there are decreased cash flow expectations, the security is reviewed for further cash flow impairments.
   Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due
from banks, certain money market investments and other debt instruments with maturities of three months or less when purchased, other than cash equivalents that are included in “Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair
value.”    Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs
   Costs that vary with and that are
related primarily to the production of new insurance and annuity business are deferred to the extent such costs are deemed recoverable from future profits. Such deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”) include commissions, costs of policy
issuance and underwriting, and variable field office expenses that are incurred in producing new business. See below under “Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements” for a discussion of the new authoritative guidance adopted
effective January 1, 2012, regarding which costs relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify for deferral. In each reporting period, capitalized DAC is amortized to “Amortization of deferred policy acquisition
costs,” net of the accrual of imputed interest on DAC balances. DAC is subject to recoverability testing at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the balance does not exceed the present value of anticipated gross profits, anticipated
gross margins, or premiums less benefits and maintenance expenses, as applicable. DAC, for applicable products, is adjusted for the impact of unrealized gains or losses on investments as if these gains or losses had been realized, with corresponding
credits or charges included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).”    For traditional participating life insurance included in the Closed Block, DAC is amortized over the expected life of the contracts (up to 45 years) in proportion to gross margins based on historical and
anticipated future experience, which is evaluated regularly. The effect of changes in estimated gross margins on unamortized DAC is reflected in “Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs” in the period such estimated gross margins
are revised. Policy acquisition costs related to interest-sensitive and variable life products and fixed and variable deferred annuity products are deferred and amortized over the expected life of the contracts (periods ranging from 25 to 99 years)
in proportion to gross profits arising principally from investment results, mortality and expense margins, and surrender charges, based on historical and anticipated future experience, which is updated periodically. The Company uses a reversion to
the mean approach to derive the blended future rate of return assumptions. However, if the projected future rate of return calculated using this approach is greater than the maximum future rate of return assumption, the maximum future rate of return
is utilized in deriving the blended future rate of return assumption. In addition to the gross profit components previously mentioned, the 
  275



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

impact of the embedded derivatives associated with certain optional living benefit features of the Company’s variable annuity contracts and related hedging activities are also included in
actual gross profits used as the basis for calculating current period amortization and, in certain instances, in management’s estimate of total gross profits used for setting the amortization rate. The effect of changes to estimated gross
profits on unamortized DAC is reflected in “Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs” in the period such estimated gross profits are revised. DAC related to non-participating traditional individual life insurance is amortized in
proportion to gross premiums.    For group annuity
contracts, acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the expected life of the contracts in proportion to gross profits. For group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance contracts, acquisition costs are deferred and amortized in
proportion to lives insured. For group and individual long-term care contracts, acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized in proportion to gross premiums. For single premium immediate annuities with life contingencies, and single premium group
annuities and single premium structured settlements with life contingencies, all acquisition costs are charged to expense immediately because generally all premiums are received at the inception of the contract. For funding agreement notes
contracts, single premium structured settlement contracts without life contingencies, and single premium immediate annuities without life contingencies, acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the expected life of the contracts using
the interest method. For other group life and disability insurance contracts and guaranteed investment contracts, acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.   
For some products, policyholders can elect to modify product benefits, features, rights or coverages by exchanging a contract for a new
contract or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within a contract. These transactions are known as internal replacements. If policyholders surrender traditional life insurance policies in
exchange for life insurance policies that do not have fixed and guaranteed terms, the Company immediately charges to expense the remaining unamortized DAC on the surrendered policies. For other internal replacement transactions, except those that
involve the addition of a nonintegrated contract feature that does not change the existing base contract, the unamortized DAC is immediately charged to expense if the terms of the new policies are not substantially similar to those of the former
policies. If the new terms are substantially similar to those of the earlier policies, the DAC is retained with respect to the new policies and amortized over the expected life of the new policies. 
  Separate Account Assets and Liabilities 
  Separate account assets are reported at fair value and
represent segregated funds that are invested for certain policyholders, pension funds and other customers. The assets consist primarily of equity securities, fixed maturities, real estate-related investments, real estate mortgage loans, short-term
investments and derivative instruments. The assets of each account are legally segregated and are generally not subject to claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by
the customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by the Company with respect to certain accounts. Separate account liabilities primarily represent the contractholder’s account balance in separate account assets and to a lesser
extent borrowings of the separate account, and will be equal and offsetting to total separate account assets. See Note 11 for additional information regarding separate account arrangements with contractual guarantees. The investment income and
realized investment gains or losses from separate account assets generally accrue to the policyholders and are not included in the Company’s results of operations. Mortality, policy administration and surrender charges assessed against the
accounts are included in “Policy charges and fee income.” Asset management fees charged to the accounts are included in “Asset management fees and other income.” Seed money that the Company invests in separate accounts is
reported in the appropriate general account asset line. Investment income and realized investment gains or losses from seed money invested in separate accounts accrues to the Company and is included in the Company’s results of operations.

  276



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Other Assets and Other Liabilities 
  Other assets consist primarily of prepaid pension benefit
costs, certain restricted assets, trade receivables, value of business acquired, goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred sales inducements, the Company’s investments in operating joint ventures, which include the Company’s indirect
investment in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. (“China Pacific Group”), property and equipment, reinsurance recoverables, and receivables resulting from sales of securities that had not yet settled at the balance sheet date. Other
liabilities consist primarily of trade payables, pension and other employee benefit liabilities, derivative liabilities, reinsurance payables, and payables resulting from purchases of securities that had not yet settled at the balance sheet date.
   Property and equipment are carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is determined using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which generally range from 3 to 40 years. 
  As a result of certain acquisitions and the application of
purchase accounting, the Company reports a financial asset representing the value of business acquired (“VOBA”). VOBA includes an explicit adjustment to reflect the cost of capital attributable to the acquired insurance contracts. VOBA
represents an adjustment to the stated value of inforce insurance contract liabilities to present them at fair value, determined as of the acquisition date. VOBA balances are subject to recoverability testing, in the manner in which it was acquired,
at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the balance does not exceed the present value of anticipated gross profits. The Company has established a VOBA asset primarily for its acquired traditional life insurance products, accident and
health products with fixed benefits, deferred annuity contracts, and defined contribution and defined benefit businesses. The majority of the VOBA balance relates to the business acquired as part of the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses
in 2011. For acquired traditional life insurance contracts and accident and health products with fixed benefits, future positive cash flows generally include net premiums while future negative cash flows include policyholders’ benefits and
certain maintenance expenses. For acquired annuity contracts, future positive cash flows generally include fees and other charges assessed to the contracts as long as they remain in force as well as fees collected upon surrender, if applicable,
while future negative cash flows include costs to administer contracts and benefit payments. In addition, future cash flows with respect to acquired annuity business include the impact of future cash flows expected from the guaranteed minimum death
and income benefit provisions. For acquired defined contribution and defined benefits businesses, contract balances are projected using assumptions for add-on deposits, participant withdrawals, contract surrenders, and investment returns. Gross
profits are then determined based on investment spreads and the excess of fees and other charges over the costs to administer the contracts. The Company amortizes VOBA over the effective life of the acquired contracts in “General and
administrative expenses.” For acquired traditional life insurance products and accident and health products with fixed benefits, VOBA is amortized in proportion to estimated gross premiums or in proportion to the face amount of insurance in
force, as applicable. For acquired annuity contracts, VOBA is amortized in proportion to estimated gross profits arising from the contracts and anticipated future experience, which is evaluated regularly. For acquired defined contribution and
defined benefit businesses, the majority of VOBA is amortized in proportion to estimated gross profits arising principally from investment spreads and fees in excess of actual expense based upon historical and estimated future experience, which is
updated periodically. The remainder of VOBA is amortized based on estimated gross revenues, fees, or the change in policyholders’ account balances, as applicable. The effect of changes in estimated gross profits on unamortized VOBA is reflected
in the period such estimates of expected future profits are revised. See Note 8 for additional information regarding VOBA and Note 3 for additional information regarding the VOBA asset related to the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses.
   As a result of certain acquisitions, including
the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses, the Company recognizes an asset for goodwill representing the excess of cost over the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units at the
date the goodwill is initially recorded. A reporting unit is an operating segment or a unit one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. Once goodwill has
been assigned to 
  277



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

reporting units, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to
support the value of the goodwill.    The Company
tests goodwill for impairment annually as of December 31 and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The fundamental
goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test that is performed at the reporting unit level. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting unit’s fair value to its carrying value including goodwill.
If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of a potential impairment and the second step of the test is
performed to measure the amount of impairment.   
The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated
impairment. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination, which is the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step, over the
aggregate fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the implied fair value of goodwill in the “pro forma” business combination
accounting as described above exceeds the goodwill assigned to the reporting unit, there is no impairment. If the goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded in “General
and administrative expenses” for the excess. An impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the amount of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit, and the loss establishes a new basis in the goodwill. Subsequent reversal of goodwill impairment
losses is not permitted. Management is required to make significant estimates in determining the fair value of a reporting unit including, but not limited to: projected earnings, comparative market multiples, and the risk rate at which future net
cash flows are discounted.    In accordance with
recently issued accounting guidance, the Company may first perform a qualitative goodwill assessment to determine whether events or circumstances lead to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less
than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step
goodwill impairment test, as described above, is not necessary. If, however, the Company concludes otherwise, then the Company must perform the first step of the two-step impairment test by comparing the reporting unit’s fair value with its
carrying value including goodwill. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, then the Company must perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the impairment loss, if any. Further details of this recently issued guidance are
provided under “Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements,” below.    See Note 9 for additional information regarding goodwill.   
The Company offers various types of sales inducements to policyholders related to fixed and variable deferred annuity contracts. The
Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over the anticipated life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. Sales inducements balances are subject to recoverability testing at the end of each
reporting period to ensure that the balance does not exceed the present value of anticipated gross profits. The Company records amortization of deferred sales inducements in “Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances.” See
Note 11 for additional information regarding sales inducements.    The majority of the Company’s reinsurance recoverables and payables are receivables and corresponding payables associated with the reinsurance arrangements used to effect the Company’s
acquisition of the retirement businesses of CIGNA. The remaining amounts relate to other reinsurance arrangements entered into by the Company. For each of its reinsurance contracts, the Company determines if the contract provides indemnification
against loss or liability relating to insurance risk in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The 
  278



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of
claims. See Note 13 for additional information about the Company’s reinsurance arrangements.    Identifiable intangible assets are recorded net of accumulated amortization. The Company tests identifiable intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis as of December 31 of each year or
whenever events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of an identifiable intangible asset may exceed the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. If this condition exists and the
carrying value of an identifiable intangible asset exceeds its fair value, the excess is recognized as an impairment and is recorded as a charge against net income. Measuring intangibles requires the use of estimates. Significant estimates include
the projected net cash flow attributable to the intangible asset and the risk rate at which future net cash flows are discounted for purposes of estimating fair value, as applicable. Identifiable intangible assets primarily include customer
relationships and mortgage servicing rights. See Note 9 for additional information regarding identifiable intangible assets.   
Investments in operating joint ventures are generally accounted for under the equity method. The carrying value of these investments is
written down, or impaired, to fair value when a decline in value is considered to be other-than-temporary. See Note 7 for additional information on investments in operating joint ventures.    Future Policy Benefits   
The Company’s liability for future policy benefits is primarily comprised of the present value of estimated future payments to or on
behalf of policyholders, where the timing and amount of payment depends on policyholder mortality or morbidity, less the present value of future net premiums. For individual traditional participating life insurance products, the mortality and
interest rate assumptions applied are those used to calculate the policies’ guaranteed cash surrender values. For life insurance, other than individual traditional participating life insurance, and annuity and disability products, expected
mortality and morbidity is generally based on the Company’s historical experience or standard industry tables including a provision for the risk of adverse deviation. Interest rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and
expected investment returns. Although mortality and morbidity and interest rate assumptions are “locked-in” upon the issuance of new insurance or annuity business with fixed and guaranteed terms, significant changes in experience or
assumptions may require the Company to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. Premium deficiency reserves, if required, are determined based on assumptions at the time the premium deficiency
reserve is established and do not include a provision for the risk of adverse deviation. See Note 10 for additional information regarding future policy benefits. 
  The Company’s liability for future policy benefits also
includes a liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses. The Company does not establish claim liabilities until a loss has occurred. However, unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses includes estimates of claims that the Company
believes have been incurred but have not yet been reported as of the balance sheet date. The Company’s liability for future policy benefits also includes net liabilities for guarantee benefits related to certain nontraditional long-duration
life and annuity contracts, which are discussed more fully in Note 11, and certain unearned revenues.    Policyholders’ Account Balances    The Company’s liability for policyholders’ account balances represents the contract value that has accrued to the benefit of the policyholder as of the balance sheet date. This liability is
generally equal to the accumulated account deposits, plus interest credited, less policyholder withdrawals and other charges assessed against the account balance. These policyholders’ account balances also include provision for benefits under
non-life contingent payout annuities and certain unearned revenues. See Note 10 for additional information regarding policyholders’ account balances. 
  279



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Policyholders’ Dividends    The Company’s liability for policyholders’ dividends includes its dividends payable to policyholders
and its policyholder dividend obligation associated with the participating policies included in the Closed Block. The dividends payable for participating policies included in the Closed Block are determined at the end of each year for the following
year by the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance based on its statutory results, capital position, ratings, and the emerging experience of the Closed Block. The policyholder dividend obligation represents amounts to be paid to Closed Block
policyholders as an additional policyholder dividend unless otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than originally expected, the components of which are discussed more fully in Note 12. The dividends payable for
policies other than the participating policies included in the Closed Block include dividends payable in accordance with certain group and individual insurance policies. 
  Contingent Liabilities 
  Amounts related to contingent liabilities are accrued if it
is probable that a liability has been incurred and an amount is reasonably estimable. Management evaluates whether there are incremental legal or other costs directly associated with the ultimate resolution of the matter that are reasonably
estimable and, if so, they are included in the accrual.   
Insurance Revenue and Expense Recognition   
Premiums from individual life products, other than interest-sensitive life contracts, and health insurance and long-term care products are
recognized when due. When premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, any gross premium in excess of the net premium (i.e., the portion of the gross premium required to provide for all
expected future benefits and expenses) is deferred and recognized into revenue in a constant relationship to insurance in force. Benefits are recorded as an expense when they are incurred. A liability for future policy benefits is recorded when
premiums are recognized using the net level premium method.    Premiums from non-participating group annuities with life contingencies, single premium structured settlements with life contingencies and single premium immediate annuities with life contingencies are
recognized when due. When premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, any gross premium in excess of the net premium is deferred and recognized into revenue in a constant relationship to the
amount of expected future benefit payments. Benefits are recorded as an expense when they are incurred. A liability for future policy benefits is recorded when premiums are recognized using the net premium method. 
  Certain individual annuity contracts provide the holder a
guarantee that the benefit received upon death or annuitization will be no less than a minimum prescribed amount. These benefits are accounted for as insurance contracts and are discussed in further detail in Note 11. The Company also provides
contracts with certain living benefits which are considered embedded derivatives. These contracts are discussed in further detail in Note 11.   
Amounts received as payment for interest-sensitive group and individual life contracts, deferred fixed annuities, structured settlements
and other contracts without life contingencies, and participating group annuities are reported as deposits to “Policyholders’ account balances.” Revenues from these contracts are reflected in “Policy charges and fee income”
consisting primarily of fees assessed during the period against the policyholders’ account balances for mortality charges, policy administration charges and surrender charges. In addition to fees, the Company earns investment income from the
investment of policyholders’ deposits in the Company’s general account portfolio. Fees assessed that represent compensation to the Company for services to be provided in future periods and certain other fees are deferred and amortized into
revenue over the life of the related contracts in proportion to estimated gross profits. Benefits and expenses for these products include claims in excess of related account balances, expenses of contract administration, interest credited to
policyholders’ account balances and amortization of DAC. 
  280



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
For group life, other than interest-sensitive group life contracts, and disability
insurance, premiums are recognized over the period to which the premiums relate in proportion to the amount of insurance protection provided. Claim and claim adjustment expenses are recognized when incurred. 
  Premiums, benefits and expenses are stated net of reinsurance
ceded to other companies, except for amounts associated with certain modified coinsurance contracts which are reflected in the Company’s financial statements based on the application of the deposit method of accounting. Estimated reinsurance
recoverables and the cost of reinsurance are recognized over the life of the reinsured policies using assumptions consistent with those used to account for the underlying policies. 
  Asset Management Fees and Other Income 
  “Asset management fees and other income”
principally include asset management fees and securities and commodities commission revenues, which are recognized in the period in which the services are performed. Realized and unrealized gains or losses from investments classified as
“trading” such as “Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities” and “Other trading account assets,” short-term investments that are marked-to-market through other income, and from consolidated entities that
follow specialized investment company fair value accounting are also included in “Asset management fees and other income.” In certain asset management fee arrangements, the Company is entitled to receive performance based incentive fees
when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. Performance based incentive fee revenue is accrued quarterly based on measuring fund performance to date versus the performance benchmark
stated in the investment management agreement. Certain performance based incentive fees are also subject to future adjustment based on cumulative fund performance in relation to these specified benchmarks. 
  Foreign Currency 
  Assets and liabilities of foreign operations and
subsidiaries reported in currencies other than U.S. dollars are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period. Revenues, benefits and other expenses are translated at the average rate prevailing during the period. The effects of
translating the statements of operations and financial position of non-U.S. entities with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are included, net of related qualifying hedge gains and losses and income taxes, in “Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss).” Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are reported in either “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” or current earnings in “Asset management fees and other income”
depending on the nature of the related foreign currency denominated asset or liability.    Derivative Financial Instruments    Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, values of securities or commodities, credit spreads, market volatility,
expected returns, and liquidity. Values can also be affected by changes in estimates and assumptions, including those related to counterparty behavior and non-performance risk used in valuation models. Derivative financial instruments generally used
by the Company include swaps, futures, forwards and options and may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market. Derivative positions are carried at fair value, generally by obtaining quoted market prices or through the use of
valuation models.    Derivatives are used in a
non-broker-dealer capacity to manage the interest rate and currency characteristics of assets or liabilities and to mitigate volatility of expected non-U.S. earnings and net investments in foreign operations resulting from changes in currency
exchange rates. Additionally, derivatives may be used to seek to reduce exposure to interest rate, credit, foreign currency and equity risks associated with assets held or expected to be purchased or sold, and liabilities incurred or expected to be
incurred. As discussed in detail below and in Note 21, all realized and unrealized changes in fair value of non-broker-dealer related derivatives are recorded in 
  281



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

current earnings, with the exception of the effective portion of cash flow hedges and effective hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Cash flows from derivatives are reported in the
operating, investing, or financing activities sections in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows based on the nature and purpose of the derivative.   
Derivatives were also used in a derivative broker-dealer capacity in the Company’s global commodities group to meet the needs of
clients by structuring transactions that allow clients to manage their exposure to interest rates, foreign exchange rates, indices and prices of securities and commodities. The Company’s global commodities group was sold on July 1, 2011.
See Note 3 for further details. Realized and unrealized changes in fair value of derivatives used in these dealer related operations are included in “Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes” in the periods in which the changes
occur. Cash flows from such derivatives are reported in the operating activities section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   
Derivatives are recorded either as assets, within “Other trading account assets, at fair value” or “Other long-term
investments,” or as liabilities, within “Other liabilities,” except for embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host contract. The Company nets the fair value of all derivative financial instruments with
counterparties for which a master netting arrangement has been executed.    The Company designates derivatives as either (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or unrecognized firm commitment (“fair value” hedge); (2) a hedge of a
forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (“cash flow” hedge); (3) a foreign-currency fair value or cash flow hedge (“foreign currency”
hedge); (4) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation; or (5) a derivative that does not qualify for hedge accounting.   
To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, a derivative must be highly effective in mitigating the designated risk of the hedged item.
Effectiveness of the hedge is formally assessed at inception and throughout the life of the hedging relationship. Even if a derivative qualifies for hedge accounting treatment, there may be an element of ineffectiveness of the hedge. Under such
circumstances, the ineffective portion is recorded in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.”   
The Company formally documents at inception all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management
objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives designated as fair value, cash flow, or foreign currency hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific
firm commitments or forecasted transactions. Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are linked to the specific foreign operation.   
When a derivative is designated as a fair value hedge and is determined to be highly effective, changes in its fair value, along with
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability (including losses or gains on firm commitments), are reported on a net basis in the income statement, generally in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” When swaps are used in
hedge accounting relationships, periodic settlements are recorded in the same income statement line as the related settlements of the hedged items.   
When a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge and is determined to be highly effective, changes in its fair value are recorded in
“Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” until earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows being hedged (e.g., when periodic settlements on a variable-rate asset or liability are recorded in earnings). At that time, the
related portion of deferred gains or losses on the derivative instrument is reclassified and reported in the income statement line item associated with the hedged item. 
  When a derivative is designated as a foreign currency hedge
and is determined to be highly effective, changes in its fair value are recorded either in current period earnings if the hedge transaction is a fair value hedge (e.g., a hedge of a recognized foreign currency asset or liability) or in
“Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” if the hedge transaction is a cash flow hedge (e.g., a foreign currency denominated forecasted 
  282



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

transaction). When a derivative is used as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, its change in fair value, to the extent effective as a hedge, is recorded in the cumulative
translation adjustment account within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).”    If it is determined that a derivative no longer qualifies as an effective fair value or cash flow hedge or management removes the hedge designation, the derivative will continue to be carried on the
balance sheet at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” In this scenario, the hedged asset or liability under a fair value hedge will no longer be adjusted for changes
in fair value and the existing basis adjustment is amortized to the income statement line associated with the asset or liability. The component of “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” related to discontinued cash flow hedges is
reclassified to the income statement line associated with the hedged cash flows consistent with the earnings impact of the original hedged cash flows.   
When hedge accounting is discontinued because the hedged item no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment, or because it is
probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the specified time period, the derivative will continue to be carried on the balance sheet at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in “Realized
investment gains (losses), net.” Any asset or liability that was recorded pursuant to recognition of the firm commitment is removed from the balance sheet and recognized currently in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” Gains
and losses that were in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” pursuant to the hedge of a forecasted transaction are recognized immediately in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” 
  If a derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting, all
changes in its fair value, including net receipts and payments, are included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net” without considering changes in the fair value of the economically associated assets or liabilities. 
  The Company is a party to financial instruments that contain
derivative instruments that are “embedded” in the financial instruments. At inception, the Company assesses whether the economic characteristics of the embedded instrument are clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of
the remaining component of the financial instrument (i.e., the host contract) and whether a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded instrument would meet the definition of a derivative instrument. When it is determined that
(1) the embedded instrument possesses economic characteristics that are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract, and (2) a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative
instrument, the embedded instrument qualifies as an embedded derivative that is separated from the host contract, carried at fair value, and changes in its fair value are included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” For certain
financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative that otherwise would need to be bifurcated and reported at fair value, the Company may elect to classify the entire instrument as a trading account asset and report it within “Other
trading account assets, at fair value.”    Short-Term and
Long-Term Debt    Liabilities for
short-term and long-term debt are primarily carried at an amount equal to unpaid principal balance, net of unamortized discount or premium. Original-issue discount or premium and debt-issue costs are recognized as a component of interest expense
over the period the debt is expected to be outstanding, using the interest method of amortization. Short-term debt is debt coming due in the next twelve months, including that portion of debt otherwise classified as long-term. The short-term debt
caption may exclude short-term items the Company intends to refinance on a long-term basis in the near term. See Note 14 for additional information regarding short-term and long-term debt.    Income Taxes   
The Company and its eligible domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return that includes both life insurance
companies and non-life insurance companies. Subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. 
  283



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

are taxed, and income tax expense is recorded, based on applicable foreign statutes. See Note 19 for a discussion of certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which the Company assumes repatriation of
earnings to the U.S.    Deferred income taxes are
recognized, based on enacted rates, when assets and liabilities have different values for financial statement and tax reporting purposes. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce a deferred tax asset to the amount expected to be realized.
   The Company’s liability for income taxes
includes the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties which relate to tax years still subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or other taxing jurisdictions. Audit periods remain open for review
until the statute of limitations has passed. Generally, for tax years which produce net operating losses, capital losses or tax credit carryforwards (“tax attributes”), the statute of limitations does not close, to the extent of these tax
attributes, until the expiration of the statute of limitations for the tax year in which they are fully utilized. The completion of review or the expiration of the statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to the
liability for income taxes. The Company classifies all interest and penalties related to tax uncertainties as income tax expense. See Note 19 for additional information regarding income taxes.    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements 
  In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued updated guidance regarding the application of the goodwill impairment test. The updated guidance allows an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads
to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the
fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is not necessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it must perform the first step of the two-step impairment test by
calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then the entity is required to perform the second step
of the goodwill impairment test to measure the impairment loss, if any. An entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and to proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill
impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. The updated guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2011. The Company’s early adoption of this guidance, as permitted, effective December 31, 2011, did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, and financial statement
disclosures.    In April 2011, the FASB issued
updated guidance clarifying which restructurings constitute troubled debt restructurings. It is intended to assist creditors in their evaluation of whether conditions exist that constitute a troubled debt restructuring. This new guidance is
effective for the first interim or annual reporting period beginning on or after June 15, 2011 and should be applied retrospectively to the beginning of the annual reporting period of adoption. The Company’s adoption of this guidance in
the third quarter of 2011 did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or financial statement disclosures. 
  In December 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for
business combinations that modifies the first step of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment
test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an
impairment may exist. The qualitative factors are consistent with existing authoritative guidance, which requires that goodwill of a reporting unit be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would
more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying 
  284



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

amount. This new guidance is effective for public entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2010. The Company’s adoption of this
guidance effective January 1, 2011 did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, and financial statement disclosures.    In December 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that specifies that if a public entity presents
comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual
reporting period only. This guidance expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures required for business combinations to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the
business combination(s) included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. This new guidance is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period
beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The Company adopted this guidance prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2011. The disclosures included in Note 3 reflect this guidance.
   In July 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance
that requires enhanced disclosures related to the allowance for credit losses and the credit quality of a company’s financing receivable portfolio. The disclosures as of the end of a reporting period are effective for interim and annual
reporting periods ending on or after December 15, 2010. The Company adopted this guidance effective December 31, 2010. The disclosures about activity that occurs during a reporting period are effective for interim and annual reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2010. The required disclosures are included above and in Note 4. In January 2011, the FASB deferred the disclosures required by this guidance related to troubled debt restructurings. These disclosures are
effective for the first interim or annual reporting period beginning on or after June 15, 2011, concurrent with the effective date of guidance for determining what constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. The disclosures required by this
guidance related to troubled debt restructurings were adopted in the third quarter of 2011 and are included above and in Note 4.   
In April 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance clarifying that an insurance entity should not consider any separate account
interests in an investment held for the benefit of policyholders to be the insurer’s interests, and should not combine those interests with its general account interest in the same investment when assessing the investment for consolidation,
unless the separate account interests are held for a related party policyholder, whereby consolidation of such interests must be considered under applicable variable interest guidance. This guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2010 and retrospectively to all prior periods upon the date of adoption, with early adoption permitted. The Company’s adoption of this guidance effective January 1, 2011 did not have a material
effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, and financial statement disclosures.   
In March 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance that amends and clarifies the accounting for credit derivatives embedded in interests in
securitized financial assets. This new guidance eliminates the scope exception for embedded credit derivatives (except for those that are created solely by subordination) and provides new guidance on how the evaluation of embedded credit derivatives
is to be performed. This new guidance is effective for the first interim reporting period beginning after June 15, 2010. The Company’s adoption of this guidance effective with the interim reporting period ending September 30, 2010 did
not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, and financial statement disclosures.   
In January 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance that requires new fair value disclosures about significant transfers between Level 1 and
2 measurement categories and separate presentation of purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements within the roll forward of Level 3 activity. Also, this updated fair value guidance clarifies the disclosure requirements about level of
disaggregation and valuation techniques and inputs. This new guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the 
  285



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of Level 3 activity, which are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2010. The Company adopted the guidance effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009 on January 1, 2010. The Company adopted the guidance effective for interim and annual reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2010 on January 1, 2011. The required disclosures are provided in Note 20.   
In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which changes the analysis required to determine whether or not an entity is a
variable interest entity (“VIE”). In addition, the guidance changes the determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE from a quantitative to a qualitative model. Under the new qualitative model, the primary beneficiary must have both
the ability to direct the activities of the VIE and the obligation to absorb either losses or gains that could be significant to the VIE. This guidance also changes when reassessment is needed, as well as requires enhanced disclosures, including the
effects of a company’s involvement with a VIE on its financial statements. This guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after November 15, 2009. In February 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance which
defers, except for disclosure requirements, the impact of this guidance for entities that (1) possess the attributes of an investment company, (2) do not require the reporting entity to fund losses, and (3) are not financing vehicles
or entities that were formerly classified as qualified special purpose entities (“QSPE’s”). The Company’s adoption of this guidance effective January 1, 2010 did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated
financial position and results of operations. The disclosures required by this revised guidance are provided in Note 5.   
In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which changes the accounting for transfers of financial assets, and is effective for
transfers of financial assets occurring in interim and annual reporting periods beginning after November 15, 2009. It removes the concept of a QSPE from the guidance for transfers of financial assets and removes the exception from applying the
guidance for consolidation of variable interest entities to qualifying special-purpose entities. It changes the criteria for achieving sale accounting when transferring a financial asset and changes the initial recognition of retained beneficial
interests. The guidance also defines “participating interest” to establish specific conditions for reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale. The Company’s adoption of this guidance effective January 1,
2010 did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, and financial statement disclosures.   
Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements   
In December 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance regarding the disclosure of offsetting assets and liabilities. This new guidance
requires an entity to disclose information on both a gross basis and net basis about instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master
netting arrangement. This new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim reporting periods within those years, and should be applied retrospectively for all comparative periods
presented. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the guidance on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, and financial statement disclosures.    In December 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance clarifying the accounting for when a parent ceases to have a
controlling financial interest in a subsidiary that is in substance real estate as a result of default on the subsidiary’s nonrecourse debt. This new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2012,
and interim reporting periods within those years, and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the guidance on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of
operations, and financial statement disclosures.   
In June 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. The updated guidance eliminates the
option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. Under the updated guidance, an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net
income, and the components of other comprehensive 
  286



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The updated guidance does not change the items that are reported in other
comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. In December 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance deferring the requirement to separately present reclassifications from the components of other
comprehensive income to the components of net income on the face of the financial statements. Companies are still required to adopt the other requirements of the updated guidance. This updated guidance, with the exception of the requirement to
separately present reclassifications from the components of other comprehensive income to the components of net income, is effective for the first interim or annual reporting period beginning after December 15, 2011 and should be applied
retrospectively. The Company expects this guidance to impact its financial statement presentation but not to impact the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations.    In May 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance regarding the fair value measurements and disclosure
requirements. The updated guidance clarifies existing guidance related to the application of fair value measurement methods and requires expanded disclosures. This new guidance is effective for the first interim or annual reporting period beginning
after December 15, 2011 and should be applied prospectively. The Company expects this guidance to have an impact on its financial statement disclosures but limited, if any, impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results
of operations.    In April 2011, the FASB issued
updated guidance regarding the assessment of effective control for repurchase agreements. This new guidance is effective for the first interim or annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2011 and should be applied
prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing transactions that occur on or after the effective date. The Company’s adoption of this guidance effective January 1, 2012 is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, and financial statement disclosures.   
In October 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to address diversity in practice regarding the interpretation of which costs
relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify for deferral. Under the amended guidance, acquisition costs are to include only those costs that are directly related to the acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts by
applying a model similar to the accounting for loan origination costs. An entity may defer incremental direct costs of contract acquisition with independent third parties or employees that are essential to the contract transaction, as well as the
portion of employee compensation, including payroll fringe benefits, and other costs directly related to underwriting, policy issuance and processing, medical inspection, and contract selling for successfully negotiated contracts. This amended
guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 and permits, but does not require, retrospective application. The Company will adopt this guidance effective January 1, 2012,
and will apply the retrospective method of adoption. Accordingly upon adoption, “Deferred policy acquisition costs” will be reduced and policy reserves for certain limited payment contracts within “Future policy benefits” will be
increased with a corresponding reduction, net of taxes, to “Retained earnings” (and “Total equity”), as a result of acquisition costs previously deferred that are not eligible for deferral under the amended guidance. The Company
estimates if the amended guidance were adopted as of December 31, 2011, retrospective adoption would reduce “Deferred policy acquisition costs” by approximately $3.8 billion to $4.6 billion, increase “Future policy benefits”
by approximately $0.2 billion to $0.3 billion, and reduce “Total equity” by approximately $2.7 billion to $3.1 billion. Subsequent to the adoption of the guidance, the lower level of costs qualifying for deferral may be only partially
offset by a lower level of amortization of “Deferred policy acquisition costs”, and, as such, may initially result in lower earnings in future periods, primarily within the International Insurance and Individual Annuities segments. The
impact to the International Insurance segment largely reflects lower deferrals of allocated costs of its proprietary distribution system, while the impact to the Individual Annuities segment mainly reflects lower deferrals of its wholesaler costs.
While the adoption of this amended guidance changes the timing of when certain costs are reflected in the Company’s results of operations, it has no effect on the total acquisition costs to be recognized over time and will have no impact on the
Company’s cash flows. 
  287



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
3.    ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS 
  Acquisition of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd.,
AIG Edison Life Insurance Company and Related Entities from AIG    On February 1, 2011, Prudential Financial completed the acquisition from American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (“Star”), AIG Edison Life
Insurance Company (“Edison”), AIG Financial Assurance Japan K.K., and AIG Edison Service Co., Ltd. (collectively, the “Star and Edison Businesses”) pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 between
Prudential Financial and AIG. The total purchase price was $4,709 million, comprised of $4,213 million in cash and $496 million in assumed third party debt, substantially all of which is expected to be repaid, over time, with excess capital of the
acquired entities. The acquisition of these businesses included the purchase by the Company of all of the shares of these entities, which became indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company. All acquired entities are Japanese corporations and
their businesses are in Japan.    The Star and
Edison Businesses primarily distribute individual life insurance, fixed annuities and certain accident and health products with fixed benefits through captive agents, independent agents, and banks. The addition of these operations to the
Company’s existing businesses increases its scale in the Japanese insurance market and provides complementary distribution opportunities.   
Prudential Financial made a Section 338(g) election under the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the acquisition resulting in the
acquired entities being treated for U.S. tax purposes as newly-incorporated companies. Under such election, the U.S. tax basis of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of the Star and Edison Businesses were adjusted as of February 1, 2011
to reflect the consequences of the Section 338(g) election.    Although the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses included the acquisition of multiple entities, the Company views this as a single acquisition and reports it as such in the following
disclosures.    Net Assets Acquired
   The following table presents an allocation
of the purchase price to assets acquired and liabilities assumed at February 1, 2011 (the “Acquisition Date”):   








 
  
(in millions)
 

 Total invested assets at fair value(1)
  
$
43,103
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
1,813
 

 Accrued investment income
  
 
348
 

 Value of business acquired (“VOBA”)(2)
  
 
3,769
 

 Goodwill(2)
  
 
173
 

 Other assets(1)(2)
  
 
880
 


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
 
50,086
 


  
  
  
 

 Future policy benefits(2)(3)
  
 
22,202
 

 Policyholders’ account balances(2)(3)(4)
  
 
22,785
 

 Long-term debt
  
 
496
 

 Other liabilities(2)
  
 
390
 


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities assumed
  
 
45,873
 


  
  
  
 

 Net assets acquired
  
$
4,213
 


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Total invested assets, at fair value, include $55 million of related party assets. Other assets include $86 million of related party assets. 


(2)
 
Reflects revisions to prior period presentation for correction of treatment of certain acquired policies and refinements to certain data. 


(3)
 
Reflects reclassifications to prior period presentation for correction of classification of certain acquired policies. 


(4)
 
Includes investment contracts reported at fair value, which exceeded the account value by $646 million. 
  288



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
VOBA 
  Value of business acquired (“VOBA”), which is
established in accordance with purchase accounting guidance, is an intangible asset associated with the acquired in force insurance contracts representing the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the liabilities, determined as of
the acquisition date. The fair value of the liabilities, and hence VOBA, reflects the cost of the capital attributable to the acquired insurance contracts. VOBA will be amortized over the expected life of the contracts in proportion to either gross
premiums or gross profits, depending on the type of contract. Total gross profits will include both actual experience as it arises and estimates of gross profits for future periods. The Company will regularly evaluate and adjust the VOBA balance
with a corresponding charge or credit to earnings for the effects of actual gross profits and changes in assumptions regarding estimated future gross profits. VOBA is reported as a component of “Other assets” and the amortization of VOBA
is reported in “General and administrative expenses.” The proportion of the VOBA balance attributable to each of the product groups associated with this acquisition are as follows: 48% related to accident and health insurance products, 45%
related to individual life insurance, and 7% related to fixed annuities.    The following table provides estimated future amortization of VOBA, net of interest, relating to the Star and Edison Businesses for the periods indicated. 
 








 
  
(in millions)
 

 2012
  
$
413
 

 2013
  
$
360
 

 2014
  
$
313
 

 2015
  
$
270
 

 2016
  
$
238
 

 2017 and thereafter
  
$
1,896
 
   Information regarding the
change in VOBA is as follows:   








 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance as of February 1, 2011
  
$
3,769
 

 Amortization
  
 
(491
) 

 Interest
  
 
41
 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
171
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2011
  
$
3,490
 


  
  
  
 
   Goodwill 
  As a result of the acquisition of the Star and Edison
Businesses, the Company recognized an asset for goodwill representing the excess of the acquisition cost over the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill resulting from the acquisition of the Star and Edison
Businesses amounted to $173 million. Based on the Company’s final calculation of the 338(g) election the Company determined that none of the goodwill is tax deductible. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, goodwill will not be amortized but rather
will be tested at least annually for impairment. The test will be performed at the reporting unit level which for this acquisition is the International Insurance segment’s Gibraltar Life and Other operations. 
  Results of the Star and Edison Businesses since the
Acquisition Date    The Star and Edison
Businesses use a November 30 fiscal year end for purposes of inclusion in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Due to this one month reporting lag, the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31,
2011 include the results for the Star and Edison Businesses from February 1, 2011 through November 30, 2011. The following table presents selected financial 
  289



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

information reflecting results for the Star and Edison Businesses that are included in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011.
  








 
  
February 1, 2011 throughNovember 30, 2011
 

 Total revenues
  
$
4,874
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
642
 
   The results of the Star and
Edison Businesses in the table above include a pre-tax charge of $27 million for estimated claims and expenses arising from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan on March 11, 2011. The results of the Star and Edison Businesses in the table above
do not reflect the impact of transaction and integration costs on the Company’s results. Transaction costs represent costs directly related to effecting the acquisition. Integration costs are costs associated with the integration of the core
operations of the Star and Edison Businesses with the Gibraltar Life operations. Both transaction and integration costs are expensed as incurred and are included in “General and administrative expenses.” For the year ended
December 31, 2011, the Company incurred $213 million of transaction and integration costs reflected in the International Insurance segment and $8 million of costs related to the acquisition reflected in Corporate and Other operations.
   Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Information
   The following supplemental information
presents selected unaudited pro forma information for the Company assuming the acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 2010. This pro forma information does not purport to represent what the Company’s actual results of operations would
have been if the acquisition had occurred as of the date indicated or what such results would be for any future periods. The pro forma information does not reflect the impact of future events that may occur, including but not limited to, expense
efficiencies arising from the acquisition and also does not give effect to certain one-time charges that the Company expects to incur, such as restructuring and integration costs.   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions, except per share amount)
 

 Total revenues
  
$
50,365
 
  
$
42,596
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
3,868
 
  
 
3,227
 

 Net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.
  
 
3,831
 
  
 
3,248
 

 Earnings per share-Financial Services Businesses
  



  




 Basic:
  



  




 Income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Common Stock
  
$
7.58
 
  
$
5.67
 

 Net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Common Stock
  
 
7.65
 
  
 
5.73
 

 Diluted:
  



  




 Income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Common Stock
  
$
7.48
 
  
$
5.61
 

 Net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Common Stock
  
 
7.55
 
  
 
5.67
 

 Earnings per share-Closed Block Business
  



  




 Basic and Diluted:
  



  




 Income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Class B Stock
  
$
55.50
 
  
$
222.00
 

 Net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share of Class B Stock
  
 
55.50
 
  
 
222.50
 
   Sale of Real Estate Brokerage Franchise
and Relocation Services Business    On
December 6, 2011, the Company sold its real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services business (“PRERS”) to Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. The Prudential Real Estate Financial Services Company of America Inc.
(“PREFSA”), a finance subsidiary of the Company with investments in a limited number of real estate 
  290



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

brokerage franchises, was excluded from the transaction. The proceeds from the sale, before transaction related expenses, were $108 million and resulted in a pre-tax gain of $49 million and an
after tax gain of $62 million.    Under the sale
agreement, the buyer may continue to use the Company’s trademark during a limited transition period and the real estate brokerage franchisees may continue to use the Company’s trademark, based on the terms of their respective franchise
agreements. In addition, the Company has agreed to provide certain Brookfield affiliates with transitional financing for the transferred relocation services business. See Note 23 for more information on the transitional financing arrangements.
   PRERS does not qualify as a Discontinued
Operation due to the continuing involvement through the financing provided to Brookfield and the retained equity in PREFSA. Results related to PRERS are included in Corporate and Other operations as a divested business. 
  Sale of investment in Wachovia Securities 
  On December 31, 2009 the Company completed the sale of
its minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities. See Note 7 for more details on this transaction.    Acquisition of Yamato Life    On May 1, 2009, the Company’s Gibraltar Life operations acquired Yamato Life, a Japanese life insurance company that declared bankruptcy in October 2008. Gibraltar Life served as the
reorganization sponsor for Yamato and under the reorganization agreement acquired Yamato by contributing $72 million of capital to Yamato. At the date of acquisition the Company recognized $2.3 billion of assets and $2.3 billion of liabilities
related to Yamato. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company renamed the acquired company The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd.   
Acquisition of Hyundai Investment and Securities Co., Ltd. 
  In 2004, the Company acquired an 80 percent interest in
Hyundai Investment and Securities Co., Ltd., a Korean asset management firm, from an agency of the Korean government. In January, 2008, the Company acquired the remaining 20 percent. In February 2010, the Company signed a definitive agreement to
sell Prudential Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. and Prudential Asset Management Co., Ltd, which together comprise its Korean asset management operations. This transaction closed on June 1, 2010 and the results of these operations are
now reflected in discontinued operations. See below for a further discussion of the sale of these operations.    Discontinued Operations    Income (loss) from discontinued businesses, including charges upon disposition, for the years ended December 31, are as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Global commodities business(1)
  
$
16
 
  
$
30
 
  
$
28
 

 Korean asset management operations(2)
  
 
0
 
  
 
37
 
  
 
17
 

 Real estate investments sold or held for sale(3)
  
 
37
 
  
 
7
 
  
 
22
 

 Mexican asset management operations(4)
  
 
0
 
  
 
6
 
  
 
12
 

 Other(5)
  
 
0
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
2
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations before income taxes
  
 
53
 
  
 
81
 
  
 
81
 

 Income tax expense
  
 
18
 
  
 
48
 
  
 
100
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
$
35
 
  
$
33
 
  
$
(19
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  291



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 


(1)
 
On April 6, 2011, the Company entered into a stock and asset purchase agreement with Jefferies Group, Inc. (“Jefferies”), pursuant to which the Company
agreed to sell to Jefferies all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company’s subsidiaries that conduct its global commodities business (the “Global Commodities Business”) and certain assets that are primarily
used in connection with the Global Commodities Business. Subsidiaries included in the sale are Prudential Bache Commodities, LLC, Prudential Bache Securities, LLC, Bache Commodities Limited, and Bache Commodities (Hong Kong) Ltd. On July 1,
2011, the Company completed the sale and received cash proceeds of $422 million, which includes a final purchase price true-up of $2 million received post closing. Included in the table above for the year ended December 31, 2011, are after-tax
losses of $17 million recorded in connection with the sale of these operations, consisting of pre-tax losses of $18 million and income tax benefit of $1 million. 


(2)
 
In the first quarter of 2010, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell Prudential Investment & Securities Co. Ltd. and Prudential Asset Management Co.
Ltd., which together comprised the Company’s Korean asset management operations. This transaction closed in the second quarter of 2010. Included within the table above for the year ended December 31, 2010, is an after-tax loss of $5
million recorded in connection with the sale of these operations, consisting of a pre-tax gain of $29 million and income tax expense of $34 million. Income tax expense reflected above for the year ended December 31, 2009 include net tax
expenses associated with the change in repatriation assumption of the earnings in these operations. Included in this net tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 is a tax benefit that was related to January 1, 2009 balances that
were recorded in Other Comprehensive Income and for which the pre-tax losses were not recorded until 2010. 


(3)
 
Reflects the income or loss from discontinued real estate investments. 


(4)
 
In the second quarter of 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its mutual fund and banking operations in Mexico. This transaction closed in the fourth
quarter of 2009. Included within the table above for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are $6 million and $8 million, respectively of pre-tax gains recorded in connection with the sale of this business. 


(5)
 
Includes the results of the equity sales, trading and research operations of Prudential Equity Group, European retail transaction-oriented stockbrokerage operations and
related activities of Prudential Securities Group, Inc. and the Company’s healthcare business.   
The Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position include total assets and total liabilities related to discontinued
businesses of $464 million and $7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011 and $7,105 million and $6,646 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. 
  Charges recorded in connection with the disposals of
businesses include estimates that are subject to subsequent adjustment.   
4.     INVESTMENTS 
  Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities
   The following tables provide information
relating to fixed maturities and equity securities (excluding investments classified as trading) as of the dates indicated:   
























 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
FairValue
 
  
Other-than-temporaryImpairmentsin
 AOCI(4)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
12,249
  
  
$
2,873
  
  
$
18
  
  
$
15,104
  
  
$
0
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
2,664
  
  
 
393
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
3,055
  
  
 
0
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
72,442
  
  
 
4,754
  
  
 
209
  
  
 
76,987
  
  
 
0
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
119,800
  
  
 
10,088
  
  
 
3,015
  
  
 
126,873
  
  
 
(22
) 

 Asset-backed securities(1)
  
 
12,346
  
  
 
172
  
  
 
1,825
  
  
 
10,693
  
  
 
(1,199
) 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
11,519
  
  
 
669
  
  
 
108
  
  
 
12,080
  
  
 
8
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities(2)
  
 
9,404
  
  
 
531
  
  
 
79
  
  
 
9,856
  
  
 
(13
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
$
240,424
  
  
$
19,480
  
  
$
5,256
  
  
$
254,648
  
  
$
(1,226
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Equity securities, available-for-sale(3)
  
$
6,922
  
  
$
1,061
  
  
$
448
  
  
$
7,535
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




  292



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 


(1)
 
Includes credit tranched securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, auto loans, credit cards, education loans and other asset types. 


(2)
 
Includes publicly traded agency pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. 


(3)
 
During 2011, perpetual preferred stocks of $1.3 billion were reclassified to “Other trading account assets.” Prior periods were not restated.



(4)
 
Represents the amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” or “AOCI,” which were not
included in earnings. Amount excludes $223 million of net unrealized gains on impaired securities relating to changes in the value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date. 
 
























 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
FairValue
 
  
Other-than-temporaryImpairmentsin AOCI(4)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign government bonds
  
$
1,260
 
  
$
128
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
1,388
 
  
$
0
 

 Corporate securities(1)
  
 
1,157
 
  
 
21
 
  
 
98
 
  
 
1,080
 
  
 
0
 

 Asset-backed securities(2)
  
 
1,213
 
  
 
62
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
1,275
 
  
 
0
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
428
 
  
 
69
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
497
 
  
 
0
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities(3)
  
 
1,049
 
  
 
65
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
1,114
 
  
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities, held-to-maturity(1)
  
$
5,107
 
  
$
345
 
  
$
98
 
  
$
5,354
 
  
$
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes notes with amortized cost of $500 million (fair value, $519 million) which have been offset with the associated payables under a netting agreement.



(2)
 
Includes credit tranched securities collateralized by auto loans, credit cards, education loans, and other asset types. 


(3)
 
Includes publicly traded agency pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. 


(4)
 
Represents the amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” or “AOCI,” which were not
included in earnings.   
























 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
FairValue
 
  
Other-than-temporaryImpairmentsin AOCI(3)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
10,930
  
  
$
663
 
  
$
295
 
  
$
11,298
 
  
$
0
 

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
2,254
  
  
 
43
 
  
 
66
 
  
 
2,231
 
  
 
0
 

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
47,414
  
  
 
2,920
 
  
 
95
 
  
 
50,239
 
  
 
0
 

 Corporate securities
  
 
93,703
  
  
 
6,503
 
  
 
1,989
 
  
 
98,217
 
  
 
(30
) 

 Asset-backed securities(1)
  
 
12,459
  
  
 
214
 
  
 
1,682
 
  
 
10,991
 
  
 
(1,413
) 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
11,443
  
  
 
663
 
  
 
69
 
  
 
12,037
 
  
 
1
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities(2)
  
 
9,551
  
  
 
491
 
  
 
72
 
  
 
9,970
 
  
 
(13
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
$
187,754
  
  
$
11,497
 
  
$
4,268
 
  
$
194,983
 
  
$
(1,455
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
$
6,469
  
  
$
1,393
 
  
$
121
 
  
$
7,741
 
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  


(1)
 
Includes credit tranched securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, auto loans, credit cards, education loans, and other asset types. 


(2)
 
Includes publicly traded agency pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. 


(3)
 
Represents the amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” or “AOCI,” which were not
included in earnings. Amount excludes $606 million of net unrealized gains on impaired securities relating to changes in the value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date. 
  293



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
























 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
FairValue
 
  
Other-than-temporaryImpairmentsin AOCI(3)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign government bonds
  
$
1,199
 
  
$
84
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
1,283
 
  
$
0
 

 Corporate securities
  
 
1,059
 
  
 
12
 
  
 
67
 
  
 
1,004
 
  
 
0
 

 Asset-backed securities(1)
  
 
1,179
 
  
 
48
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
1,226
 
  
 
0
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
475
 
  
 
106
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
581
 
  
 
0
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities(2)
  
 
1,314
 
  
 
69
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
1,383
 
  
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  
$
5,226
 
  
$
319
 
  
$
68
 
  
$
5,477
 
  
$
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes credit tranched securities collateralized by auto loans, credit cards, education loans, and other asset types. 


(2)
 
Includes publicly traded agency pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. 


(3)
 
Represents the amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” or “AOCI,” which were not
included in earnings.    The amortized
cost and fair value of fixed maturities by contractual maturities at December 31, 2011, are as follows:   




















 
  
Available-for-Sale
 
  
Held-to-Maturity
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Due in one year or less
  
$
8,173
 
  
$
8,192
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 

 Due after one year through five years
  
 
47,775
 
  
 
48,372
 
  
 
59
 
  
 
60
 

 Due after five years through ten years
  
 
55,112
 
  
 
58,167
 
  
 
422
 
  
 
427
 

 Due after ten years(1)
  
 
96,095
 
  
 
107,288
 
  
 
1,936
 
  
 
1,981
 

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
12,346
 
  
 
10,693
 
  
 
1,213
 
  
 
1,275
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
11,519
 
  
 
12,080
 
  
 
428
 
  
 
497
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
9,404
 
  
 
9,856
 
  
 
1,049
 
  
 
1,114
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
240,424
 
  
$
254,648
 
  
$
5,107
 
  
$
5,354
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes notes with amortized cost of $500 million (fair value, $519 million) which have been offset with the associated payables under a netting agreement.
   Actual maturities may differ from
contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations. Asset-backed, commercial mortgage-backed, and residential mortgage-backed securities are shown separately in the table above, as they are not due at a single
maturity date. 
  294



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The following table depicts the sources of fixed maturity proceeds and related
investment gains (losses), as well as losses on impairments of both fixed maturities and equity securities:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  



  



  




 Proceeds from sales
  
$
24,834
 
  
$
11,214
 
  
$
23,390
 

 Proceeds from maturities/repayments
  
 
17,660
 
  
 
17,346
 
  
 
18,182
 

 Gross investment gains from sales, prepayments, and maturities
  
 
1,100
 
  
 
714
 
  
 
1,025
 

 Gross investment losses from sales and maturities
  
 
(335
) 
  
 
(226
) 
  
 
(535
) 

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  



  



  




 Gross investment gains from prepayments
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
378
 

 Proceeds from maturities/repayments
  
 
457
 
  
 
470
 
  
 
0
 

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  



  



  




 Proceeds from sales
  
$
3,750
 
  
$
2,467
 
  
$
2,264
 

 Gross investment gains from sales
  
 
506
 
  
 
364
 
  
 
303
 

 Gross investment losses from sales
  
 
(249
) 
  
 
(67
) 
  
 
(176
) 

 Fixed maturity and equity security impairments
  



  



  




 Net writedowns for other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed maturities recognized in earnings(1)
  
$
(535
) 
  
$
(732
) 
  
$
(1,694
) 

 Writedowns for impairments on equity securities
  
 
(112
) 
  
 
(112
) 
  
 
(1,002
) 
  


(1)
 
Excludes the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in “Other comprehensive income (loss),” representing any difference between the fair value
of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment.   
As discussed in Note 2, a portion of certain other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) losses on fixed maturity securities are
recognized in “Other comprehensive income (loss)” (“OCI”). For these securities, the net amount recognized in earnings (“credit loss impairments”) represents the difference between the amortized cost of the security and
the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. Any remaining difference between the fair value and amortized cost is recognized in OCI. The
following table sets forth the amount of pre-tax credit loss impairments on fixed maturity securities held by the Company as of the dates indicated, for which a portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in OCI, and the corresponding changes in such
amounts.    Credit losses recognized in earnings on fixed
maturity securities held by the Company for which a portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in OCI   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance, beginning of period
  
$
1,493
 
  
$
1,752
 

 Credit loss impairments previously recognized on securities which matured, paid down, prepaid or were sold during the
period
  
 
(379
) 
  
 
(340
) 

 Credit loss impairments previously recognized on securities impaired to fair value during the period(1)
  
 
(32
) 
  
 
(336
) 

 Credit loss impairment recognized in the current period on securities not previously impaired
  
 
49
 
  
 
154
 

 Additional credit loss impairments recognized in the current period on securities previously impaired
  
 
317
 
  
 
228
 

 Increases due to the passage of time on previously recorded credit losses
  
 
58
 
  
 
97
 

 Accretion of credit loss impairments previously recognized due to an increase in cash flows expected to be
collected
  
 
(31
) 
  
 
(62
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, end of period
  
$
1,475
 
  
$
1,493
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Represents circumstances where the Company determined in the current period that it intends to sell the security or it is more likely than not that it will be required
to sell the security before recovery of the security’s amortized cost. 
  295



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities 
  The following table sets forth the composition of
“Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value” at December 31:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
$
951
 
  
$
951
 
  
$
697
 
  
$
697
 







 Fixed maturities:
  



  



  



  




 Corporate securities
  
 
10,297
 
  
 
11,036
 
  
 
9,581
 
  
 
10,118
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
2,157
 
  
 
2,247
 
  
 
2,352
 
  
 
2,407
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities(1)
  
 
1,786
 
  
 
1,844
 
  
 
1,350
 
  
 
1,363
 

 Asset-backed securities(2)
  
 
1,504
 
  
 
1,367
 
  
 
1,158
 
  
 
1,030
 

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
644
 
  
 
655
 
  
 
567
 
  
 
569
 

 U.S. government authorities and agencies and obligations of U.S. states
  
 
440
 
  
 
470
 
  
 
467
 
  
 
448
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
  
 
16,828
 
  
 
17,619
 
  
 
15,475
 
  
 
15,935
 







 Equity securities
  
 
1,050
 
  
 
911
 
  
 
1,156
 
  
 
1,139
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
$
18,829
 
  
$
19,481
 
  
$
17,328
 
  
$
17,771
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes publicly traded agency pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. 


(2)
 
Includes credit tranched securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, auto loans, credit cards, education loans and other asset types. 
  The net change in unrealized gains (losses) from trading
account assets supporting insurance liabilities still held at period end, recorded within “Asset management fees and other income” was $209 million, $415 million and $1,794 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively.    Other Trading Account Assets
   The following table sets forth the
composition of the “Other trading account assets” at December 31:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
$
4
 
  
$
3
 
  
$
3
 
  
$
3
 







 Fixed maturities:
  



  



  



  




 Asset-backed securities
  
 
698
 
  
 
652
 
  
 
706
 
  
 
661
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
186
 
  
 
96
 
  
 
301
 
  
 
181
 

 Corporate securities
  
 
557
 
  
 
555
 
  
 
319
 
  
 
318
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
155
 
  
 
110
 
  
 
144
 
  
 
103
 

 U.S. government authorities and agencies and obligations of U.S. states
  
 
41
 
  
 
31
 
  
 
212
 
  
 
214
 

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
47
 
  
 
47
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
25
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities
  
 
1,684
 
  
 
1,491
 
  
 
1,707
 
  
 
1,502
 

 Other
  
 
15
 
  
 
19
 
  
 
16
 
  
 
20
 

 Equity securities(1)
  
 
1,682
 
  
 
1,621
 
  
 
548
 
  
 
561
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
$
3,385
 
  
$
3,134
 
  
$
2,274
 
  
$
2,086
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Derivative instruments
  



  
 
2,411
 
  



  
 
2,139
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other trading account assets
  
$
3,385
 
  
$
5,545
 
  
$
2,274
 
  
$
4,225
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
During 2011, perpetual preferred stocks of $1.3 billion were reclassified from “Equity securities, available-for-sale.” Additionally, $17 million of gains
were reclassified from “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” into “Asset management fees and other income.” Prior periods were not restated. 
  296



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The net change in unrealized gains (losses) from other trading account assets, excluding
derivative instruments, still held at period end, recorded within “Asset management fees and other income” was $63 million, $57 million and $101 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
   Concentrations of Financial Instruments 
  The Company monitors its concentrations of financial
instruments on an on-going basis, and mitigates credit risk by maintaining a diversified investment portfolio which limits exposure to any one issuer.   
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s exposure to concentrations of credit risk of single issuers greater than 10% of
the Company’s stockholders’ equity included securities of the U.S. government, certain U.S. government agencies and certain securities guaranteed by the U.S. government, as well as the securities disclosed below. 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Investments in Japanese government and government agency securities:
  



  



  



  




 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
$
60,323
 
  
$
63,846
 
  
$
38,647
 
  
$
40,752
 

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  
 
1,260
 
  
 
1,388
 
  
 
1,199
 
  
 
1,283
 

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
471
 
  
 
483
 
  
 
418
 
  
 
424
 

 Other trading account assets
  
 
40
 
  
 
40
 
  
 
23
 
  
 
24
 

 Short-term investments
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 

 Cash equivalents
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
62,094
 
  
$
65,757
 
  
$
40,287
 
  
$
42,483
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Investments in South Korean government and government agency securities:
  



  



  



  




 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
$
4,678
 
  
$
5,240
 
  
$
3,963
 
  
$
4,238
 

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
17
 
  
 
18
 
  
 
17
 
  
 
18
 

 Other trading account assets
  
 
2
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
2
 

 Short-term investments
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 

 Cash equivalents
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,697
 
  
$
5,260
 
  
$
3,981
 
  
$
4,258
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  297



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans 
  The Company’s commercial mortgage and other loans are
comprised as follows at December 31:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Amount(in millions)
 
  
% ofTotal
 
 
Amount(in millions)
 
  
% ofTotal
 

 Commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by property type:
  



  



 



  




 Office buildings
  
$
6,391
  
  
 
19.8
% 
 
$
5,803
  
  
 
19.5
% 

 Retail stores
  
 
7,309
  
  
 
22.7
  
 
 
6,388
  
  
 
21.4
  

 Apartments/Multi-Family
  
 
5,277
  
  
 
16.4
  
 
 
5,140
  
  
 
17.2
  

 Industrial buildings
  
 
7,049
  
  
 
21.8
  
 
 
6,576
  
  
 
22.1
  

 Hospitality
  
 
1,486
  
  
 
4.6
  
 
 
1,584
  
  
 
5.3
  

 Other
  
 
2,707
  
  
 
8.4
  
 
 
2,440
  
  
 
8.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
30,219
  
  
 
93.7
  
 
 
27,931
  
  
 
93.7
  

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
2,046
  
  
 
6.3
  
 
 
1,893
  
  
 
6.3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage and agricultural loans by property type
  
 
32,265
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
29,824
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(313
) 
  



 
 
(505
) 
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total net commercial mortgage and agricultural loans by property type
  
 
31,952
  
  



 
 
29,319
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Other loans
  



  



 



  




 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
2,323
  
  



 
 
1,468
  
  




 Residential property loans
  
 
1,034
  
  



 
 
891
  
  




 Other collateralized loans
  
 
176
  
  



 
 
223
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total other loans
  
 
3,533
  
  



 
 
2,582
  
  




 Valuation allowance
  
 
(54
) 
  



 
 
(70
) 
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total net other loans
  
 
3,479
  
  



 
 
2,512
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total commercial mortgage and other loans(1)
  
$
35,431
  
  



 
$
31,831
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



  


(1)
 
Includes loans held at fair value.   
The commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans are geographically dispersed throughout the United States, Canada and Asia with
the largest concentrations in California (27%), New York (11%) and Texas (8%) at December 31, 2011.   
Activity in the allowance for losses for all commercial mortgage and other loans, for the years ended December 31, is as follows:
  




























 
  
2011(1)
 

 
  
CommercialMortgageLoans
 
 
AgriculturalPropertyLoans
 
  
ResidentialPropertyLoans
 
 
OtherCollateralizedLoans
 
 
UncollateralizedLoans
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Allowance for losses, beginning of year
  
$
497
  
 
$
8
  
  
$
17
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
33
  
 
$
575
  

 Addition to / (release of) allowance of losses
  
 
(202
) 
 
 
11
  
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
13
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
(179
) 

 Charge-offs, net of recoveries
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(31
) 

 Change in foreign exchange
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
2
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance for losses, end of year
  
$
294
  
 
$
19
  
  
$
16
  
 
$
18
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
367
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  298



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




























 
  
2010(1)
 

 
  
CommercialMortgageLoans
 
 
AgriculturalPropertyLoans
 
  
ResidentialPropertyLoans
 
 
OtherCollateralizedLoans
 
 
UncollateralizedLoans
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Allowance for losses, beginning of year
  
$
639
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
18
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
21
  
  
$
698
  

 Addition to / (release of) allowance of losses
  
 
(125
) 
 
 
8
  
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
11
  
  
 
(107
) 

 Charge-offs, net of recoveries
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(18
) 

 Change in foreign exchange
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
  
 
2
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Allowance for losses, end of year
  
$
497
  
 
$
8
  
  
$
17
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
33
  
  
$
575
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  








 
  
2009(1)
 

 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Allowance for losses, beginning of year
  
$
332
 

 Addition to / (release of) allowance of losses
  
 
468
 

 Charge-offs, net of recoveries
  
 
(105
) 

 Change in foreign exchange
  
 
3
 


  
  
  
 

 Allowance for losses, end of year
  
$
698
 


  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Valuation allowances for 2011 and 2010 are presented in a format consistent with new disclosure requirements under the updated guidance issued by the FASB in 2011.
Valuation allowances for 2009 are provided consistent with the prior presentation.    The following table sets forth the allowance for credit losses and the recorded investment in commercial mortgage and other loans, for the years ended December 31: 
 




























 
  
2011
 

 
  
CommercialMortgageLoans
 
  
AgriculturalPropertyLoans
 
  
ResidentialPropertyLoans
 
  
OtherCollateralizedLoans
 
  
UncollateralizedLoans
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Allowance for Credit Losses:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
120
  
  
$
11
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
18
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
149
  

 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
174
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
218
  

 Ending balance: loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total ending balance
  
$
294
  
  
$
19
  
  
$
16
  
  
$
18
  
  
$
20
  
  
$
367
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Recorded Investment:(1)
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Ending balance gross of reserves: individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
1,903
  
  
$
45
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
110
  
  
$
92
  
  
$
2,150
  

 Ending balance gross of reserves: collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
28,316
  
  
 
2,001
  
  
 
1,034
  
  
 
66
  
  
 
2,231
  
  
 
33,648
  

 Ending balance gross of reserves: loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total ending balance, gross of reserves
  
$
30,219
  
  
$
2,046
  
  
$
1,034
  
  
$
176
  
  
$
2,323
  
  
$
35,798
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Recorded investment reflects the balance sheet carrying value gross of related allowance. 
  299



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




























 
  
2010
 

 
  
CommercialMortgageLoans
 
  
AgriculturalPropertyLoans
 
  
ResidentialPropertyLoans
 
  
OtherCollateralizedLoans
 
  
UncollateralizedLoans
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Allowance for Credit Losses:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
264
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
20
  
  
$
16
  
  
$
300
  

 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
233
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
275
  

 Ending balance: loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total ending balance
  
$
497
  
  
$
8
  
  
$
17
  
  
$
20
  
  
$
33
  
  
$
575
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Recorded Investment:(1)
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Ending balance gross of reserves: individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
2,279
  
  
$
39
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
147
  
  
$
36
  
  
$
2,501
  

 Ending balance gross of reserves: collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
25,652
  
  
 
1,854
  
  
 
891
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
1,432
  
  
 
29,905
  

 Ending balance gross of reserves: loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total ending balance, gross of reserves
  
$
27,931
  
  
$
1,893
  
  
$
891
  
  
$
223
  
  
$
1,468
  
  
$
32,406
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Recorded investment reflects the balance sheet carrying value gross of related allowance. 
  300



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Impaired loans include those loans for which it is probable that amounts due according
to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not all be collected. Impaired commercial mortgage and other loans identified in management’s specific review of probable loan losses and the related allowance for losses for the years ended
December 31, are as follows:   
























 
  
2011
 

 
  
RecordedInvestment(1)
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
RelatedAllowance
 
  
AverageRecordedInvestmentBeforeAllowance(2)
 
  
InterestIncomeRecognized(3)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 With no related allowance recorded:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 Retail
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Office
  
 
2
  
  
 
84
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  

 Apartments/Multi-Family
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Hospitality
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
0
  

 Other
  
 
17
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
19
  
  
 
101
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
6
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total with no related allowance
  
$
25
  
  
$
114
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
42
  
  
$
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 With an allowance recorded:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
54
  
  
$
54
  
  
$
19
  
  
$
36
  
  
$
1
  

 Retail
  
 
89
  
  
 
89
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
114
  
  
 
3
  

 Office
  
 
47
  
  
 
47
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
49
  
  
 
0
  

 Apartments/Multi-Family
  
 
102
  
  
 
102
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
197
  
  
 
4
  

 Hospitality
  
 
129
  
  
 
129
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
178
  
  
 
0
  

 Other
  
 
92
  
  
 
92
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
100
  
  
 
2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
513
  
  
 
513
  
  
 
120
  
  
 
674
  
  
 
10
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
19
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
0
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
21
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
2
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total with related allowance
  
$
553
  
  
$
553
  
  
$
149
  
  
$
737
  
  
$
12
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Total:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial mortgage loans
  
$
532
  
  
$
614
  
  
$
120
  
  
$
709
  
  
$
11
  

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
19
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
0
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
21
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
2
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
6
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
578
  
  
$
667
  
  
$
149
  
  
$
779
  
  
$
13
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Recorded investment reflects the balance sheet carrying value gross of related allowance. 


(2)
 
Average recorded investment represents the average of the beginning-of-period and all subsequent quarterly end-of-period balances. 


(3)
 
The interest income recognized reflects the related year-to-date income, regardless of the impairment timing. 
  301



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
















 
  
2010
 

 
  
RecordedInvestment(1)
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
RelatedAllowance
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 With no related allowance recorded:
  



  



  




 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 Retail
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Office
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Apartments/multi-family
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Hospitality
  
 
64
  
  
 
64
  
  
 
0
  

 Other
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
64
  
  
 
64
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total with no related allowance
  
$
65
  
  
$
77
  
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 With an allowance recorded:
  



  



  




 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
18
  
  
$
18
  
  
$
18
  

 Retail
  
 
155
  
  
 
155
  
  
 
23
  

 Office
  
 
43
  
  
 
43
  
  
 
10
  

 Apartments/multi-family
  
 
323
  
  
 
323
  
  
 
103
  

 Hospitality
  
 
218
  
  
 
218
  
  
 
89
  

 Other
  
 
95
  
  
 
96
  
  
 
21
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
852
  
  
 
853
  
  
 
264
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
26
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
0
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
29
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
20
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
35
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
16
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total with related allowance
  
$
942
  
  
$
951
  
  
$
300
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Total:
  



  



  




 Commercial mortgage loans
  
$
916
  
  
$
917
  
  
$
264
  

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
26
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
0
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
29
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
20
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
35
  
  
 
50
  
  
 
16
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,007
  
  
$
1,028
  
  
$
300
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Recorded investment reflects the balance sheet carrying value gross of related allowance.    Impaired commercial mortgage and other loans with no allowance for losses are loans in which the fair value of
the collateral or the net present value of the loans’ expected future cash flows equals or exceeds the recorded investment. The average recorded investment in impaired loans with an allowance recorded, before the allowance for losses, was $750
million at December 31, 2010. Net investment income recognized on these loans totaled $35 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. See Note 2 for information regarding the Company’s accounting policies for commercial mortgage and
other loans.    The net carrying value of commercial
and other loans held for sale by the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $514 million and $136 million, respectively. In all these transactions, the Company 
  302



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

pre-arranges that it will sell the loan to an investor. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, all of the Company’s commercial and other loans held for sale were collateralized, with
collateral primarily consisting of office buildings, retail properties, apartment complexes and industrial buildings.   
The following tables set forth the credit quality indicators as of December 31, 2011, based upon the recorded investment gross of
allowance for credit losses.   
































Commercial mortgage loans—Industrial buildings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
627
  
 
$
311
  
 
$
211
  
 
$
254
  
 
$
19
  
 
$
48
  
 
$
1,470
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
299
  
 
 
86
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
246
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
1,065
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
922
  
 
 
287
  
 
 
380
  
 
 
308
  
 
 
373
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
2,375
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
175
  
 
 
86
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
448
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
1,342
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
114
  
 
 
236
  
 
 
456
  

 90%-100%
 
 
19
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
181
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
16
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
125
  
 
 
160
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Industrial
 
$
2,058
  
 
$
770
  
 
$
1,042
  
 
$
1,362
  
 
$
1,000
  
 
$
817
  
 
$
7,049
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








Commercial mortgage loans—Retail
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
1,188
  
 
$
251
  
 
$
523
  
 
$
87
  
 
$
18
  
 
$
3
  
 
$
2,070
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
627
  
 
 
507
  
 
 
590
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
1,829
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
351
  
 
 
539
  
 
 
739
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
2,213
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
289
  
 
 
608
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
962
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
80
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
88
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
67
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Retail
 
$
2,166
  
 
$
1,375
  
 
$
2,159
  
 
$
1,278
  
 
$
245
  
 
$
86
  
 
$
7,309
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
































Commercial mortgage loans—Office
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
1,756
  
 
$
365
  
 
$
181
  
 
$
132
  
 
$
23
  
 
$
31
  
 
$
2,488
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
572
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
1,111
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
612
  
 
 
412
  
 
 
79
  
 
 
460
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
1,662
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
65
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
618
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
744
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
244
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
34
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
108
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Office
 
$
3,005
  
 
$
883
  
 
$
534
  
 
$
1,014
  
 
$
778
  
 
$
177
  
 
$
6,391
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  303



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
































Commercial mortgage loans—Apartments/Multi-Family
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
726
  
 
$
176
  
 
$
272
  
 
$
172
  
 
$
215
  
 
$
61
  
 
$
1,622
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
95
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
257
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
614
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
425
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
341
  
 
 
356
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
1,304
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
107
  
 
 
99
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
729
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
1,258
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
107
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
174
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
108
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
197
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Apartments/Multi-Family
 
$
1,353
  
 
$
324
  
 
$
1,029
  
 
$
1,572
  
 
$
503
  
 
$
496
  
 
$
5,277
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








Commercial mortgage loans—Hospitality
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
143
 
 
$
158
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
115
 
 
$
22
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
438
 

 50%-59.99%
 
 
51
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
57
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
117
 

 60%-69.99%
 
 
0
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
45
 
 
 
350
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
412
 

 70%-79.99%
 
 
6
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
117
 
 
 
61
 
 
 
184
 

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
77
 
 
 
49
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
199
 

 90%-100%
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
55
 

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
79
 
 
 
81
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Hospitality
 
$
200
 
 
$
164
 
 
$
141
 
 
$
523
 
 
$
267
 
 
$
191
 
 
$
1,486
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








Commercial mortgage loans—Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
333
  
 
$
31
  
 
$
6
  
 
$
74
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
446
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
50
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
262
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
111
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
280
  
 
 
295
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
984
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
286
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
202
  
 
 
286
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
787
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
102
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
50
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
74
  
 
 
76
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Other
 
$
780
  
 
$
408
  
 
$
569
  
 
$
683
  
 
$
165
  
 
$
102
  
 
$
2,707
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  304



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
































Agricultural property loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
383
  
 
$
123
  
 
$
340
  
 
$
427
  
 
$
154
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
1,427
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
70
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
240
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
155
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
341
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
38
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Agricultural
 
$
608
  
 
$
248
  
 
$
529
  
 
$
466
  
 
$
154
  
 
$
41
  
 
$
2,046
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







Commercial mortgage and agricultural loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
5,156
  
 
$
1,415
  
 
$
1,533
  
 
$
1,261
  
 
$
452
  
 
$
144
  
 
$
9,961
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
1,764
  
 
 
1,020
  
 
 
1,400
  
 
 
709
  
 
 
253
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
5,238
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
2,576
  
 
 
1,440
  
 
 
2,045
  
 
 
2,254
  
 
 
721
  
 
 
255
  
 
 
9,291
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
639
  
 
 
232
  
 
 
804
  
 
 
2,086
  
 
 
1,298
  
 
 
218
  
 
 
5,277
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
430
  
 
 
235
  
 
 
406
  
 
 
1,255
  

 90%-100%
 
 
19
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
365
  
 
 
554
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
16
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
430
  
 
 
689
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Commercial Mortgage and Agricultural
 
$
10,170
  
 
$
4,172
  
 
$
6,003
  
 
$
6,898
  
 
$
3,112
  
 
$
1,910
  
 
$
32,265
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The following tables set
forth the credit quality indicators as of December 31, 2010, based upon the recorded investment gross of allowance for credit losses.   
































Commercial mortgage loans—Industrial buildings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
622
  
 
$
319
  
 
$
196
  
 
$
191
  
 
$
15
  
 
$
23
  
 
$
1,366
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
364
  
 
 
71
  
 
 
149
  
 
 
186
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
864
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
424
  
 
 
93
  
 
 
495
  
 
 
435
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
115
  
 
 
1,756
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
71
  
 
 
97
  
 
 
528
  
 
 
564
  
 
 
223
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
1,698
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
316
  
 
 
563
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
134
  
 
 
180
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
16
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
149
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Industrial
 
$
1,497
  
 
$
580
  
 
$
1,385
  
 
$
1,519
  
 
$
627
  
 
$
968
  
 
$
6,576
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  305



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
































Commercial mortgage loans—Retail
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
613
  
 
$
328
  
 
$
447
  
 
$
87
  
 
$
31
  
 
$
4
  
 
$
1,510
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
608
  
 
 
158
  
 
 
409
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
154
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,384
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
365
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
450
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
1,604
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
80
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
436
  
 
 
601
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,304
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
103
  
 
 
83
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
282
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
79
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
149
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
225
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Retail
 
$
1,666
  
 
$
940
  
 
$
1,871
  
 
$
1,210
  
 
$
629
  
 
$
72
  
 
$
6,388
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








Commercial mortgage loans—Office
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
1,801
  
 
$
58
  
 
$
310
  
 
$
137
  
 
$
17
  
 
$
27
  
 
$
2,350
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
311
  
 
 
207
  
 
 
221
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
907
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
136
  
 
 
229
  
 
 
122
  
 
 
175
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
734
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
20
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
87
  
 
 
212
  
 
 
596
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
916
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
5
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
415
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
484
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
174
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
297
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
115
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Office
 
$
2,273
  
 
$
506
  
 
$
740
  
 
$
1,162
  
 
$
905
  
 
$
217
  
 
$
5,803
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







Commercial mortgage loans—Apartments/Multi-Family
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
737
  
 
$
209
  
 
$
332
  
 
$
197
  
 
$
271
  
 
$
66
  
 
$
1,812
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
24
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
114
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
404
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
96
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
177
  
 
 
250
  
 
 
100
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
667
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
70
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
226
  
 
 
119
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
664
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
554
  

 90%-100%
 
 
20
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
199
  
 
 
323
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
504
  
 
 
716
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Apartment/Multi-Family
 
$
947
  
 
$
293
  
 
$
820
  
 
$
1,173
  
 
$
933
  
 
$
974
  
 
$
5,140
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  306



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
































Commercial mortgage loans—Hospitality
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
153
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
128
  
 
$
120
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
28
  
 
$
429
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
21
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
21
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
314
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
243
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
249
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
101
  
 
 
249
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
107
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
215
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Hospitality
 
$
174
  
 
$
40
  
 
$
277
  
 
$
578
  
 
$
166
  
 
$
349
  
 
$
1,584
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







Commercial mortgage loans—Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
377
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
14
  
 
$
19
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
411
  

 50%-59.99%
 
 
40
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
138
  

 60%-69.99%
 
 
57
  
 
 
193
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
457
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
874
  

 70%-79.99%
 
 
3
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
194
  
 
 
107
  
 
 
74
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
445
  

 80%-89.99%
 
 
133
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
330
  

 90%-100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
10
  

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
232
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Other
 
$
610
  
 
$
274
  
 
$
315
  
 
$
815
  
 
$
241
  
 
$
185
  
 
$
2,440
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








Agricultural property loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
407
 
 
$
107
 
 
$
349
 
 
$
488
 
 
$
121
 
 
$
5
 
 
$
1,477
 

 50%-59.99%
 
 
38
 
 
 
136
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
218
 

 60%-69.99%
 
 
161
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
28
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
189
 

 70%-79.99%
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
9
 

 80%-89.99%
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 90%-100%
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Greater than 100%
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Agricultural
 
$
606
 
 
$
243
 
 
$
367
 
 
$
514
 
 
$
149
 
 
$
14
 
 
$
1,893
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  307



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
































Commercial mortgage and agricultural loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio—December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Greater than2.0X
 
 
1.8X to 2.0X
 
 
1.5X to <1.8X
 
 
1.2X to <1.5X
 
 
1.0X to <1.2X
 
 
Less than1.0X
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Loan-to-Value Ratio
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 0%-49.99%
 
$
4,710
 
 
$
1,021
 
 
$
1,776
 
 
$
1,239
 
 
$
455
 
 
$
154
 
 
$
9,355
 

 50%-59.99%
 
 
1,406
 
 
 
606
 
 
 
936
 
 
 
604
 
 
 
310
 
 
 
74
 
 
 
3,936
 

 60%-69.99%
 
 
1,239
 
 
 
970
 
 
 
1,333
 
 
 
1,808
 
 
 
569
 
 
 
219
 
 
 
6,138
 

 70%-79.99%
 
 
244
 
 
 
263
 
 
 
1,388
 
 
 
1,953
 
 
 
1,147
 
 
 
290
 
 
 
5,285
 

 80%-89.99%
 
 
138
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
282
 
 
 
885
 
 
 
600
 
 
 
553
 
 
 
2,462
 

 90%-100%
 
 
20
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
47
 
 
 
134
 
 
 
270
 
 
 
513
 
 
 
996
 

 Greater than 100%
 
 
16
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
348
 
 
 
299
 
 
 
976
 
 
 
1,652
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Commercial Mortgage and Agricultural
 
$
7,773
 
 
$
2,876
 
 
$
5,775
 
 
$
6,971
 
 
$
3,650
 
 
$
2,779
 
 
$
29,824
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The following tables provide
an aging of past due commercial mortgage and other loans as of the dates indicated, based upon the recorded investment gross of allowance for credit losses.   
































 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Current
 
  
30-59 DaysPast Due
 
  
60-89 DaysPast Due
 
  
GreaterThan 90Day -Accruing
 
  
GreaterThan 90Day - NotAccruing
 
  
Total PastDue
 
  
TotalCommercialMortgageand otherLoans
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
7,047
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
7,049
  

 Retail
  
 
7,294
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
7,309
  

 Office
  
 
6,369
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
6,391
  

 Apartment/multi-family
  
 
5,207
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
70
  
  
 
70
  
  
 
5,277
  

 Hospitality
  
 
1,486
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,486
  

 Other
  
 
2,657
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
27
  
  
 
50
  
  
 
2,707
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
30,060
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
129
  
  
 
159
  
  
 
30,219
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
2,005
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
41
  
  
 
2,046
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
988
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
1,034
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
174
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
176
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
2,323
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,323
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
35,550
  
  
$
40
  
  
$
19
  
  
$
1
  
  
$
188
  
  
$
248
  
  
$
35,798
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  308



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
































 
  
As of December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Current
 
  
30-59 DaysPast Due
 
  
60-89 DaysPast Due
 
  
GreaterThan 90Day -Accruing
 
  
GreaterThan 90Day - NotAccruing
 
  
Total PastDue
 
  
TotalCommercialMortgageand otherLoans
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
6,576
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
6,576
  

 Retail
  
 
6,298
  
  
 
71
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
90
  
  
 
6,388
  

 Office
  
 
5,774
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
5,803
  

 Apartment/Multi-Family
  
 
4,907
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
185
  
  
 
233
  
  
 
5,140
  

 Hospitality
  
 
1,467
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
96
  
  
 
117
  
  
 
1,584
  

 Other
  
 
2,370
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
70
  
  
 
2,440
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
27,392
  
  
 
154
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
360
  
  
 
539
  
  
 
27,931
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
1,853
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
40
  
  
 
1,893
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
847
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
44
  
  
 
891
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
212
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
223
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
1,468
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,468
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
31,772
  
  
$
174
  
  
$
28
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
432
  
  
$
634
  
  
$
32,406
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   See Note 2 for further
discussion regarding nonaccrual status loans. The following table sets forth commercial mortgage and other loans on nonaccrual status, based upon the recorded investment gross of allowance for credit losses, for the years ended December 31:
  












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  




 Industrial
  
$
54
  
  
$
43
  

 Retail
  
 
72
  
  
 
146
  

 Office
  
 
58
  
  
 
65
  

 Apartments/Multi-Family
  
 
129
  
  
 
410
  

 Hospitality
  
 
169
  
  
 
290
  

 Other
  
 
144
  
  
 
151
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
626
  
  
 
1,105
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
44
  
  
 
39
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
18
  
  
 
22
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
15
  
  
 
50
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
8
  
  
 
35
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
711
  
  
$
1,251
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The following table sets
forth the commercial mortgage and other loans acquired and sold for the year ended December 31, 2011:   




























 
  
CommercialMortgageLoans
 
  
AgriculturalPropertyLoans
 
  
ResidentialPropertyLoans
 
  
OtherCollateralizedLoans
 
  
UncollateralizedLoans
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Acquired(1)
  
$
52
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
219
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
565
  
  
$
838
  

 Sold(2)
  
 
147
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
183
  
  


(1)
 
Reported at purchase price of commercial mortgage and other loans acquired. 


(2)
 
Reported at book value of commercial mortgage and other loans sold. 
  309



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The following tables provide information about commercial mortgage and other loans
involved in a trouble debt restructuring as of the dates indicated. The pre-modification outstanding recorded investment has been adjusted for any partial payoffs, and the table excludes troubled debt restructurings where the Company has received
assets, other than loans, in full satisfaction of the loan. See Note 2 for additional information relating to the accounting for troubled debt restructurings.   




















 
  
Three Months Ended December 31, 2011
 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
AdjustedPre-ModificationOutstandingRecordedInvestment
 
  
Post-ModificationOutstandingRecordedInvestment
 
  
AdjustedPre-ModificationOutstandingRecordedInvestment
 
  
Post-ModificationOutstandingRecordedInvestment
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  



  




 Industrial
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
 

 Retail
  
 
15
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
151
  
  
 
134
 

 Office
  
 
17
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
21
 

 Apartments/Multi-Family
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
36
 

 Hospitality
  
 
55
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
86
  
  
 
75
 

 Other
  
 
35
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
69
  
  
 
55
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total commercial mortgage loans
  
 
122
  
  
 
108
  
  
 
366
  
  
 
321
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Agricultural property loans
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  

 Residential property loans
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
7
  

 Other collateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
8
  

 Uncollateralized loans
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
126
  
  
$
112
  
  
$
383
  
  
$
338
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The amount of payment
defaults during the period on commercial mortgage and other loans that were modified as a troubled debt restructuring within the last 12 months was less than $1 million as of December 31, 2011. 
  As of December 31, 2011, the Company committed to fund
$6 million to borrowers that have been involved in a troubled debt restructuring.    Other Long-term Investments    “Other long-term investments” are comprised as follows at December 31:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Joint ventures and limited partnerships:
  



  




 Real estate-related
  
$
1,182
  
  
$
1,058
  

 Non-real estate-related
  
 
3,304
  
  
 
2,477
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total joint ventures and limited partnerships
  
 
4,486
  
  
 
3,535
  

 Real estate held through direct ownership
  
 
2,460
  
  
 
1,659
  

 Other
  
 
874
  
  
 
977
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other long-term investments
  
$
7,820
  
  
$
6,171
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   In certain investment
structures, the Company’s asset management business invests with other co-investors in an investment fund referred to as a feeder fund. In these structures, the invested capital of several feeder funds is pooled together and used to purchase
ownership interests in another fund, referred to as a master fund. The master fund utilizes this invested capital, and in certain cases other debt financing, to purchase various classes of assets on behalf of its investors. Specialized industry
accounting for investment companies calls for the feeder 
  310



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

fund to reflect its investment in the master fund as a single net asset equal to its proportionate share of the net assets of the master fund, regardless of its level of interest in the master
fund. In cases where the Company consolidates the feeder fund, it retains the feeder fund’s net asset presentation and reports the consolidated feeder fund’s proportionate share of the net assets of the master fund in “Other long-term
investments,” with any unaffiliated investors’ noncontrolling interest in the feeder fund reported in “Other liabilities” or “Noncontrolling interests.” The consolidated feeder funds’ investments in these master
funds, reflected on this net asset basis, totaled $172 million as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010. The unaffiliated interest in the consolidated feeder funds was $2 million and $1 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively,
and the master funds had gross assets of $819 million and $781 million, respectively, and gross liabilities of $565 million and $540 million, respectively, which are not included on the Company’s balance sheet. 
  Net Investment Income 
  Net investment income for the years ended December 31,
was from the following sources:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
$
9,374
  
  
$
8,346
  
  
$
8,182
  

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  
 
140
  
  
 
150
  
  
 
135
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
315
  
  
 
285
  
  
 
302
  

 Trading account assets
  
 
889
  
  
 
822
  
  
 
821
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
1,926
  
  
 
1,887
  
  
 
1,929
  

 Policy loans
  
 
598
  
  
 
577
  
  
 
570
  

 Broker-dealer related receivables
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
(3
) 

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
58
  
  
 
45
  
  
 
121
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
231
  
  
 
152
  
  
 
(203
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross investment income
  
 
13,531
  
  
 
12,264
  
  
 
11,854
  

 Less: investment expenses
  
 
(407
) 
  
 
(399
) 
  
 
(464
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net investment income
  
$
13,124
  
  
$
11,865
  
  
$
11,390
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Carrying value for non-income
producing assets included in fixed maturities and commercial mortgage and other loans totaled $243 million and $21 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. Non-income producing assets represent investments that have not produced income
for the twelve months preceding December 31, 2011.   
Realized Investment Gains (Losses), Net  
Realized investment gains (losses), net, for the years ended December 31, were from the following sources: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities
  
$
230
  
  
$
(244
) 
  
$
(1,204
) 

 Equity securities
  
 
145
  
  
 
185
  
  
 
(875
) 

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
122
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
(602
) 

 Investment real estate
  
 
(20
) 
  
 
1
  
  
 
(48
) 

 Joint ventures and limited partnerships
  
 
26
  
  
 
(41
) 
  
 
(55
) 

 Derivatives(1)
  
 
2,294
  
  
 
1,090
  
  
 
(127
) 

 Other
  
 
34
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
14
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
2,831
  
  
$
1,050
  
  
$
(2,897
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes the offset of hedged items in qualifying effective hedge relationships prior to maturity or termination. 
  Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) 
  Net unrealized investment gains and losses on securities
classified as “available-for-sale” and certain other long-term investments and other assets are included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as a 
  311



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

component of “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” or “AOCI.” Changes in these amounts include reclassification adjustments to exclude from “Other
comprehensive income (loss)” those items that are included as part of “Net income” for a period that had been part of “Other comprehensive income (loss)” in earlier periods. The amounts for the periods indicated below, split
between amounts related to fixed maturity securities on which an OTTI loss has been recognized, and all other net unrealized investment gains and losses, are as follows: 
  Net Unrealized Investment Gains and Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities on
which an OTTI loss has been recognized   




























 
 
Net UnrealizedGains (Losses)on Investments
 
 
DeferredPolicyAcquisitionCosts,DeferredSalesInducements,andValue
ofBusinessAcquired
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits
 
 
Policyholders’Dividends
 
 
DeferredIncomeTax(Liability)Benefit
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)Related To
NetUnrealizedInvestmentGains (Losses)
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  

 Cumulative impact of adoption of new authoritative guidance on January 1,2009
 
 
(1,139
) 
 
 
9
  
 
 
1
  
 



 
 
388
  
 
 
(741
) 

 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period
 
 
529
  
 



 



 



 
 
(190
) 
 
 
339
  

 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income
 
 
1,070
  
 



 



 



 
 
(385
) 
 
 
685
  

 Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(1)
 
 
(1,689
) 
 



 



 



 
 
608
  
 
 
(1,081
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of
business acquired
 



 
 
184
  
 



 



 
 
(66
) 
 
 
118
  

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits
 



 



 
 
1
  
 



 
 
0
  
 
 
1
  

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders’ dividends
 



 



 



 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
$
(1,229
) 
 
$
193
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
355
  
 
$
(679
) 

 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period
 
 
(37
) 
 



 



 



 
 
13
  
 
 
(24
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income
 
 
461
  
 



 



 



 
 
(158
) 
 
 
303
  

 Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(1)
 
 
(44
) 
 



 



 



 
 
16
  
 
 
(28
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of
business acquired
 



 
 
(171
) 
 



 



 
 
61
  
 
 
(110
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits
 



 



 
 
(7
) 
 



 
 
3
  
 
 
(4
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders’ dividends
 



 



 



 
 
334
  
 
 
(116
) 
 
 
218
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
$
(849
) 
 
$
22
  
 
$
(5
) 
 
$
334
  
 
$
174
  
 
$
(324
) 
  312



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




























 
 
Net UnrealizedGains (Losses)on Investments
 
 
DeferredPolicyAcquisitionCosts,DeferredSalesInducements,andValue
ofBusinessAcquired
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits
 
 
Policyholders’Dividends
 
 
DeferredIncomeTax(Liability)Benefit
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)Related To
NetUnrealizedInvestmentGains (Losses)
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period
 
 
(474
) 
 



 



 



 
 
166
  
 
 
(308
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income
 
 
375
  
 



 



 



 
 
(131
) 
 
 
244
  

 Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(1)
 
 
(55
) 
 



 



 



 
 
19
  
 
 
(36
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of
business acquired
 



 
 
(6
) 
 



 



 
 
2
  
 
 
(4
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits
 



 



 
 
19
  
 



 
 
(7
) 
 
 
12
  

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders’ dividends
 



 



 



 
 
132
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
178
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
$
(1,003
) 
 
$
16
  
 
$
14
  
 
$
466
  
 
$
269
  
 
$
(238
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Represents “transfers in” related to the portion of OTTI losses recognized during the period that were not recognized in earnings for securities with no prior
OTTI loss.    All Other Net Unrealized Investment
Gains and Losses in AOCI   




























 
 
Net UnrealizedGains (Losses)on Investments(1)
 
 
DeferredPolicyAcquisitionCosts,DeferredSalesInducements,andValue
ofBusinessAcquired
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits
 
 
Policyholders’Dividends
 
 
DeferredIncomeTax(Liability)Benefit
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)Related To
NetUnrealizedInvestmentGains (Losses)
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
 
$
(11,893
) 
 
$
1,479
  
 
$
(384
) 
 
$
431
  
 
$
3,632
  
 
$
(6,735
) 

 Cumulative impact of the adoption of new authoritative guidance on January 1, 2009
 
 
(322
) 
 
 
15
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
418
  
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
82
  

 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period
 
 
12,361
  
 



 



 



 
 
(4,143
) 
 
 
8,218
  

 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income
 
 
1,050
  
 



 



 



 
 
(378
) 
 
 
672
  

 Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(2)
 
 
1,689
  
 



 



 



 
 
(608
) 
 
 
1,081
  

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of
business acquired
 



 
 
(2,297
) 
 



 



 
 
804
  
 
 
(1,493
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits
 



 



 
 
(129
) 
 



 
 
45
  
 
 
(84
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders’ dividends
 



 



 



 
 
(849
) 
 
 
298
  
 
 
(551
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
$
2,885
  
 
$
(803
) 
 
$
(509
) 
 
$
0
  
 
$
(383
) 
 
$
1,190
  
  313



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




























 
 
Net UnrealizedGains (Losses)on Investments(1)
 
 
DeferredPolicyAcquisitionCosts,DeferredSalesInducements,andValue
ofBusinessAcquired
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits
 
 
Policyholders’Dividends
 
 
DeferredIncomeTax(Liability)Benefit
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)Related To
NetUnrealizedInvestmentGains (Losses)
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period
 
 
6,709
  
 



 



 



 
 
(2,309
) 
 
 
4,400
  

 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income
 
 
(377
) 
 



 



 



 
 
134
  
 
 
(243
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(2)
 
 
44
  
 



 



 



 
 
(14
) 
 
 
30
  

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of
business acquired
 



 
 
(120
) 
 



 



 
 
44
  
 
 
(76
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits
 



 



 
 
(392
) 
 



 
 
140
  
 
 
(252
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders’ dividends
 



 



 



 
 
(2,454
) 
 
 
874
  
 
 
(1,580
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
$
9,261
  
 
$
(923
) 
 
$
(901
) 
 
$
(2,454
) 
 
$
(1,514
) 
 
$
3,469
  

 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period
 
 
7,142
  
 



 



 



 
 
(2,517
) 
 
 
4,625
  

 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income
 
 
(710
) 
 



 



 



 
 
249
  
 
 
(461
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(2)
 
 
55
  
 



 



 



 
 
(19
) 
 
 
36
  

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of
business acquired
 



 
 
(522
) 
 



 



 
 
183
  
 
 
(339
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits
 



 



 
 
(369
) 
 



 
 
129
  
 
 
(240
) 

 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders’ dividends
 



 



 



 
 
(1,865
) 
 
 
648
  
 
 
(1,217
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
$
15,748
  
 
$
(1,445
) 
 
$
(1,270
) 
 
$
(4,319
) 
 
$
(2,841
) 
 
$
5,873
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes cash flow hedges. See Note 21 for information on cash flow hedges. 


(2)
 
Represents “transfers out” related to the portion of OTTI losses recognized during the period that were not recognized in earnings for securities with no
prior OTTI loss.    The table below
presents net unrealized gains (losses) on investments by asset class at December 31:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturity securities on which an OTTI loss has been recognized
  
$
(1,003
) 
  
$
(849
) 
  
$
(1,229
) 

 Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale—all other
  
 
15,227
  
  
 
8,078
  
  
 
2,203
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
613
  
  
 
1,272
  
  
 
789
  

 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges(1)
  
 
(86
) 
  
 
(262
) 
  
 
(317
) 

 Other investments(2)
  
 
(6
) 
  
 
173
  
  
 
210
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net unrealized gains (losses) on investments
  
$
14,745
  
  
$
8,412
  
  
$
1,656
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
See Note 21 for more information on cash flow hedges. 


(2)
 
Includes $107 million of net unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities that were transferred from available-for-sale in 2011. Also includes net unrealized gains
on certain joint ventures that are strategic in nature and are included in “Other assets.” 
  314



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Duration of Gross Unrealized Loss Positions for Fixed Maturities 
  The following table shows the fair value and gross
unrealized losses aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual fixed maturity securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at December 31: 
 




























 
  
2011
 

 
  
Less than twelve months
 
  
Twelve months or more
 
  
Total
 

 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities(1)
  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
870
  
  
$
8
  
  
$
130
  
  
$
10
  
  
$
1,000
  
  
$
18
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
7
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
46
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
2
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
4,017
  
  
 
182
  
  
 
306
  
  
 
27
  
  
 
4,323
  
  
 
209
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
21,419
  
  
 
1,144
  
  
 
9,691
  
  
 
1,969
  
  
 
31,110
  
  
 
3,113
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
917
  
  
 
61
  
  
 
362
  
  
 
47
  
  
 
1,279
  
  
 
108
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
2,746
  
  
 
40
  
  
 
4,134
  
  
 
1,785
  
  
 
6,880
  
  
 
1,825
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
422
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
378
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
800
  
  
 
79
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
30,398
  
  
$
1,454
  
  
$
15,047
  
  
$
3,900
  
  
$
45,445
  
  
$
5,354
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes $706 million of fair value and $98 million of gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2011 on securities classified as held-to-maturity, a portion of
which are not reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income.   




























 
  
2010
 

 
  
Less than twelve months
 
  
Twelve months or more
 
  
Total
 

 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities(1)
  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
3,677
  
  
$
207
  
  
$
422
  
  
$
88
  
  
$
4,099
  
  
$
295
  

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
1,273
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
53
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
1,326
  
  
 
66
  

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
2,599
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
125
  
  
 
19
  
  
 
2,724
  
  
 
95
  

 Corporate securities
  
 
12,385
  
  
 
460
  
  
 
9,982
  
  
 
1,596
  
  
 
22,367
  
  
 
2,056
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
552
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
350
  
  
 
60
  
  
 
902
  
  
 
69
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
1,365
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
5,499
  
  
 
1,667
  
  
 
6,864
  
  
 
1,683
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
897
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
447
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
1,344
  
  
 
72
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
22,748
  
  
$
845
  
  
$
16,878
  
  
$
3,491
  
  
$
39,626
  
  
$
4,336
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes $590 million of fair value and $68 million of gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2010 on securities classified as held-to-maturity, a portion of
which are not reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income.    The gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are composed of $3,535 million and $2,950 million related to high or highest quality securities based on NAIC or equivalent rating and $1,819
million and 
  315



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

$1,386 million related to other than high or highest quality securities based on NAIC or equivalent rating. At December 31, 2011, $3,478 million of the gross unrealized losses represented
declines in value of greater than 20%, $871 million of which had been in that position for less than six months, as compared to $2,238 million at December 31, 2010, that represented declines in value of greater than 20%, $386 million of which
had been in that position for less than six months. At December 31, 2011, the $3,900 million of gross unrealized losses of twelve months or more were concentrated in asset-backed securities, and in the manufacturing, finance, and services
sectors of the Company’s corporate securities. At December 31, 2010, the $3,491 million of gross unrealized losses of twelve months or more were concentrated in asset-backed securities, and in the manufacturing, finance, and services
sectors of the Company’s corporate securities. In accordance with its policy described in Note 2, the Company concluded that an adjustment to earnings for other-than-temporary impairments for these securities was not warranted at
December 31, 2011 and 2010. These conclusions are based on a detailed analysis of the underlying credit and cash flows on each security. The gross unrealized losses are primarily attributable to foreign currency movements, credit spread
widening and increased liquidity discounts. At December 31, 2011, the Company does not intend to sell the securities and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the securities before the anticipated recovery of
its remaining amortized cost basis.    Duration of Gross
Unrealized Loss Positions for Equity Securities    The following table shows the fair value and gross unrealized losses aggregated by length of time that individual equity securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at December 31:
  




























 
  
2011
 

 
  
Less than twelve months
 
  
Twelve months or more
 
  
Total
 

 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
$
2,602
  
  
$
448
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
2,602
  
  
$
448
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




























 
  
2010
 

 
  
Less than twelve months
 
  
Twelve months or more
 
  
Total
 

 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
$
1,098
  
  
$
87
  
  
$
326
  
  
$
34
  
  
$
1,424
  
  
$
121
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   At December 31, 2011,
$236 million of the gross unrealized losses represented declines of greater than 20%, $225 million of which had been in that position for less than six months. At December 31, 2010, $35 million of the gross unrealized losses represented
declines of greater than 20%, $18 million of which had been in that position for less than six months. Included in the December 31, 2010 table above are perpetual preferred securities. Perpetual preferred securities have characteristics of both
debt and equity securities. Since an impairment model similar to fixed maturity securities is applied to these securities, an other-than-temporary impairment has not been recognized on certain perpetual preferred securities that have been in a
continuous unrealized loss position for twelve months or more as of December 31, 2010. In accordance with its policy described in Note 2, the Company concluded that an adjustment for other-than-temporary impairments for these equity securities
was not warranted at December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
Securities Pledged, Restricted Assets and Special Deposits 
  The Company pledges as collateral investment securities it
owns to unaffiliated parties through certain transactions, including securities lending, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, collateralized 
  316



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

borrowings and postings of collateral with derivative counterparties. At December 31, the carrying value of investments pledged to third parties as reported in the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position included the following:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities(1)
  
$
13,070
 
  
$
11,610
 

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
738
 
  
 
276
 

 Other trading account assets
  
 
46
 
  
 
355
 

 Separate account assets
  
 
4,073
 
  
 
4,082
 

 Equity securities
  
 
276
 
  
 
334
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total securities pledged
  
$
18,203
 
  
$
16,657
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes $4 million and $132 million of fixed maturity securities classified as short-term investments at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
   As of December 31, 2011, the
carrying amount of the associated liabilities supported by the pledged collateral was $17,408 million. Of this amount, $6,218 million was “Securities sold under agreements to repurchase,” $4,160 million was “Separate account
liabilities,” $2,973 million was “Cash collateral for loaned securities,” $725 million was “Long-term debt,” $199 million was “Short-term debt,” $1,500 million was “Policyholders’ account balances,”
and $1,633 million was “Other liabilities.” As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount of the associated liabilities supported by the pledged collateral was $16,026 million. Of this amount, $5,885 million was “Securities sold
under agreements to repurchase,” $4,082 million was “Separate account liabilities,” $2,171 million was “Cash collateral for loaned securities,” $725 million was “Long-term debt,” $275 million was “Short-term
debt,” $1,500 million was “Policyholders’ account balances,” and $1,388 million was “Other liabilities.”   
In the normal course of its business activities, the Company accepts collateral that can be sold or repledged. The primary sources of this
collateral are securities in customer accounts and securities purchased under agreements to resell. The fair value of this collateral was approximately $2,258 million and $1,773 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, all of which,
for both periods, had either been sold or repledged.    Assets of $50 million and $88 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were on deposit with governmental authorities or trustees. Additionally, assets carried at $596 million and $694
million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were held in voluntary trusts established primarily to fund guaranteed dividends to certain policyholders and to fund certain employee benefits. Securities restricted as to sale amounted to
$191 million and $638 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These amounts include member and activity-based stock associated with memberships in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and Boston. Restricted cash and securities of
$56 million and $2,917 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were included in “Other assets.” The restricted cash and securities for December 31, 2010 primarily represent funds, associated with the sold Global
Commodities Business, deposited by clients or accruing to clients as a result of trades or contracts.   
5.    VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES 
  In the normal course of its activities,
the Company enters into relationships with various special purpose entities and other entities that are deemed to be variable interest entities (“VIEs”). A VIE is an entity that either (1) has equity investors that lack certain
essential characteristics of a controlling financial interest (including the ability to control activities of the entity, the obligation to absorb the entity’s expected losses and the right to receive the entity’s expected residual
returns) or (2) lacks sufficient equity to finance its own activities without financial support provided by other entities, which in turn would be expected to absorb at least some of the expected losses of the VIE. 
  If the Company determines that it is the VIE’s
“primary beneficiary” it consolidates the VIE. There are currently two models for determining whether or not the Company is the “primary beneficiary” of a VIE. The 
  317



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

first relates to those VIEs that have the characteristics of an investment company and for which certain other conditions are true. These conditions are that (1) the Company does not have
the implicit or explicit obligation to fund losses of the VIE and (2) the VIE is not a securitization entity, asset-backed financing entity or an entity that was formerly considered a qualified special-purpose entity. In this model the Company
is the primary beneficiary if it stands to absorb a majority of the VIE’s expected losses or to receive a majority of the VIE’s expected residual returns and would be required to consolidate the VIE. 
  For all other VIEs, the Company is the primary beneficiary if
the Company has (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the economic performance of the entity and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could be potentially significant to the VIE
or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could be potentially significant. If both conditions are present the Company would be required to consolidate the VIE. 
  Consolidated Variable Interest Entities for which the Company is the
Investment Manager    The Company is the
investment manager of certain asset-backed investment vehicles (commonly referred to as collateralized debt obligations, or “CDOs”) and certain other vehicles for which the Company earns fee income for investment management services,
including certain investment structures which the Company’s asset management business invests with other co-investors in investment funds referred to as feeder funds. The Company sells or syndicates investments through these vehicles,
principally as part of the strategic investing activity of the Company’s asset management businesses. Additionally, the Company may invest in debt or equity securities issued by these vehicles. CDOs raise capital by issuing debt securities, and
use the proceeds to purchase investments, typically interest-bearing financial instruments. The Company analyzes these relationships to determine whether it has (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact
the economic performance of the entity and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could be potentially significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could be potentially significant and thus is the
primary beneficiary. This analysis includes a review of (1) the Company’s rights and responsibilities as investment manager, (2) fees received by the Company and (3) other interests (if any) held by the Company. The Company is
not required to provide, and has not provided, material financial or other support to any VIE for which it is the investment manager.   
The Company has determined that it is the primary beneficiary of certain VIEs for which it is the asset manager, including certain CDOs
and other investment structures, as it meets both conditions listed above. The table below reflects the carrying amount and balance sheet caption in which the assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which the Company is the investment
manager are reported. The assets of these VIE’s are restricted and must be used first to settle liabilities of the VIE. The creditors of these VIEs do not have recourse to the Company in excess of the assets contained within the VIE.
  












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
$
83
  
  
$
49
  

 Other trading account assets
  
 
271
  
  
 
0
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
154
  
  
 
341
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
19
  
  
 
17
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
275
  
  
 
84
  

 Accrued investment income
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  

 Other assets
  
 
17
  
  
 
3
  

 Separate account assets
  
 
0
  
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets of consolidated VIEs
  
$
820
  
  
$
499
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other liabilities
  
$
723
  
  
$
379
  

 Separate account liabilities
  
 
0
  
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs
  
$
723
  
  
$
383
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  318



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The Company also consolidates a VIE whose beneficial interests are wholly-owned by
consolidated subsidiaries. This VIE is not included in the table above and the Company does not currently intend to sell these beneficial interests to third parties. 
  Other Consolidated Variable Interest Entities 
  The Company is the primary beneficiary of certain VIEs in
which the Company has invested, as part of its investment activities. Included among these structured investments are structured investments issued by a VIE that manages yen-denominated investments coupled with cross-currency coupon swap agreements
thereby creating synthetic dual currency investments. The Company’s involvement in the structuring of these investments combined with its economic interest indicates that the Company is the primary beneficiary. The Company has not provided
material financial or other support that was not contractually required to these VIEs. The table below reflects the carrying amount and balance sheet caption in which the assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which the Company is not the
investment manager are reported. These liabilities primarily comprise obligations under debt instruments issued by the VIEs that are non-recourse to the Company. The creditors of each consolidated VIE have recourse only to the assets of that VIE.
  












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
$
129
 
  
$
136
 

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  
 
1,191
 
  
 
1,130
 

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities
  
 
8
 
  
 
9
 

 Other long-term investments
  
 
141
 
  
 
(119
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
0
 
  
 
(2
) 

 Accrued investment income
  
 
5
 
  
 
5
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets of consolidated VIEs
  
$
1,474
 
  
$
1,159
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   In addition, not reflected in
the table above, the Company has created a trust that is a VIE, to facilitate Prudential Insurance’s Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program (“FANIP”). The trust issues medium-term notes secured by funding agreements issued to the
trust by Prudential Insurance with the proceeds of such notes. The trust is the beneficiary of an indemnity agreement with the Company that provides that the Company is responsible for costs related to the notes issued with limited exception. As a
result, the Company has determined that it is the primary beneficiary of the trust, which is therefore consolidated.   
The funding agreements represent an intercompany transaction that is eliminated upon consolidation. However, in recognition of the
security interest in such funding agreements, the trust’s medium-term note liability of $3,197 million and $3,509 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, is classified within “Policyholders’ account balances.”
Creditors of the trust have recourse to Prudential Insurance if the trust fails to make contractual payments on the medium-term notes. The Company has not provided material financial or other support that was not contractually required to the trust.
   Unconsolidated Variable Interest Entities
   The Company has determined that it is
not the primary beneficiary of certain VIEs for which it is the investment manager, including certain CDOs and other investment structures, as it does not have both (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly
impact the economic performance of the entity and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could be potentially significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could be potentially significant. The
Company’s maximum exposure to loss resulting from its relationship with unconsolidated VIEs for which it is the investment manager is limited to its 
  319



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

investment in the VIEs, which was $534 million and $506 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These investments are reflected in “Fixed maturities,
available-for-sale,” “Other trading account assets, at fair value” and “Other long-term investments.” The fair value of assets held within these unconsolidated VIEs was $7,720 million and $8,979 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There are no liabilities associated with these unconsolidated VIEs on the Company’s balance sheet.   
In the normal course of its activities, the Company will invest in joint ventures and limited partnerships. These ventures include hedge
funds, private equity funds and real estate-related funds and may or may not be VIEs. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss on these investments, both VIEs and non-VIEs, is limited to the amount of its investment. The Company has determined
that it is not required to consolidate these entities because either (1) it does not control them or (2) it does not have the obligation to absorb losses of the entities that could be potentially significant to the entities or the right to
receive benefits from the entities that could be potentially significant. The Company classifies these investments as “Other long-term investments” and its maximum exposure to loss associated with these entities was $4,486 million and
$3,535 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.    In addition, in the normal course of its activities, the Company will invest in structured investments including VIEs for which it is not the investment manager. These structured investments typically
invest in fixed income investments and are managed by third parties and include asset-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage-backed securities. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss on these
structured investments, both VIEs and non-VIEs, is limited to the amount of its investment. See Note 4 for details regarding the carrying amounts and classification of these assets. The Company has not provided material financial or other support
that was not contractually required to these structures. The Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these structures due to the fact that it does not control these entities. 
  Included among these structured investments are asset-backed
securities issued by VIEs that manage investments in the European market. In addition to a stated coupon, each investment provides a return based on the VIE’s portfolio of assets and related investment activity. The market value of these VIEs
was approximately $2.6 billion and $5.0 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and these VIEs were financed primarily through the issuance of notes similar to those purchased by the Company. The Company generally accounts for
these investments as available-for-sale fixed maturities containing embedded derivatives that are bifurcated and marked-to-market through “Realized investment gains (losses), net,” based upon the change in value of the underlying
portfolio. The Company’s variable interest in each of these VIEs represents less than 50% of the only class of variable interests issued by the VIE. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss from these interests was $664 million and $754
million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which includes the fair value of the embedded derivatives.   
6.    DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS 
  The balances of and changes in deferred
policy acquisition costs as of and for the years ended December 31, are as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance, beginning of year
  
$
16,435
 
  
$
14,578
 
  
$
15,126
 

 Capitalization of commissions, sales and issue expenses
  
 
3,897
 
  
 
3,091
 
  
 
2,771
 

 Amortization—Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups
  
 
(35
) 
  
 
276
 
  
 
230
 

 Amortization—All other
  
 
(3,257
) 
  
 
(1,713
) 
  
 
(1,724
) 

 Change in unrealized investment gains and losses
  
 
(457
) 
  
 
(294
) 
  
 
(2,000
) 

 Foreign currency translation and other
  
 
207
 
  
 
497
 
  
 
175
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, end of year
  
$
16,790
 
  
$
16,435
 
  
$
14,578
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  320



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
7.    INVESTMENTS IN OPERATING JOINT VENTURES 
  The Company has made investments in
certain joint ventures that are strategic in nature and made other than for the sole purpose of generating investment income. These investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and are included in “Other assets” in
the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The earnings from these investments are included on an after-tax basis in “Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes” in the Company’s Consolidated
Statements of Operations. Investments in operating joint ventures include investments made as part of the Company’s International Insurance segment, and prior to its sale on December 31, 2009, also included the Company’s investment in
Wachovia Securities. The summarized financial information for the Company’s operating joint ventures has been included in the summarized combined financial information for all significant equity method investments shown in Note 4. 
  The following table sets forth information related to the
Company’s investments in operating joint ventures as of and for the years ended December 31:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Investment in operating joint ventures:
  



  



  




 Wachovia Securities
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 

 All other joint ventures(1)
  
 
407
 
  
 
787
 
  
 
857
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
$
407
 
  
$
787
 
  
$
857
 






 Dividends received from investment in:
  



  



  




 Wachovia Securities
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
23
 

 All other joint ventures
  
 
49
 
  
 
47
 
  
 
33
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
$
49
 
  
$
47
 
  
$
56
 






 After-tax equity earnings (losses):
  



  



  




 Wachovia Securities(2)
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
1,483
 

 All other joint ventures
  
 
185
 
  
 
84
 
  
 
40
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
$
185
 
  
$
84
 
  
$
1,523
 
  


(1)
 
Includes $126 million, $459 million and $528 million related to an indirect investment in China Pacific Group as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



(2)
 
Includes pre-tax equity earnings from Wachovia Securities of $2.288 billion, including the gain on the sale of $2.247 billion, and tax expense of $805 million,
including $790 million associated with the gain on the sale, for the year ended December 31, 2009.   
Investments in operating joint ventures   
The Company has made investments in operating joint ventures as part of its International Insurance segment. The Company’s combined
investment in these operating joint ventures includes an indirect investment in China Pacific Group, a Chinese insurance operation. The indirect investment in China Pacific Group includes unrealized changes in market value, which are included in
accumulated other comprehensive income and relate to the market price of China Pacific Group’s publicly traded shares, which began trading on the Shanghai Exchange in 2007 and since the fourth quarter of 2009 are trading on the Hong Kong
exchange. In December 2010, a consortium of investors including the Company sold approximately 16% of its holdings, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $66 million to the Company, and sold approximately 50% of its original holdings in 2011, resulting in
a pre-tax gain of $237 million to the Company. The Company transacts with certain of these operating joint ventures in the normal course of business, on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. For the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized $15 million, $16 million and $15 million, respectively, of asset management fee income from these transactions. 
  Former Investment in Afore XXI, S.A. de C.V. 
  On October 20, 2011, the Company entered into an
agreement to sell its stake in Afore XXI, S.A. de C.V., a private pension fund manager in Mexico, to Banorte, a major bank based in Mexico. The transaction was 
  321



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

completed on December 2, 2011 and resulted in a pre-tax gain of $96 million to the International Insurance segment. This gain is reflected in “Asset management fees and other
income” of the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.    Former Investment in Wachovia Securities   
On December 31, 2009, the Company completed the sale of its minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities (including Wells
Fargo Advisors) to Wells Fargo. For the year ended December 31, 2009, “Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes” includes the associated pre-tax gain on the sale of $2.247 billion. In addition, “General and
administrative expenses” includes certain one-time costs related to the sale of the joint venture interest of $104 million, for pre-tax compensation costs and costs related to increased contributions to the Company’s charitable foundation.
Results related to the joint venture are included in Corporate and Other operations as a divested business.   
8.    VALUE OF BUSINESS ACQUIRED 
  The balances of and changes in VOBA as of
and for the years ended December 31, are as follows:   
















 
  
2011(1)
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance, beginning of year
  
$
484
 
  
$
511
 
  
$
719
 

 Acquisitions
  
 
3,769
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 

 Amortization—Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups
  
 
(23
) 
  
 
(4
) 
  
 
(80
) 

 Amortization—All other
  
 
(555
) 
  
 
(60
) 
  
 
(137
) 

 Change in unrealized investment gains and losses
  
 
(74
) 
  
 
(11
) 
  
 
(13
) 

 Interest(2)
  
 
65
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
27
 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
179
 
  
 
23
 
  
 
(5
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, end of year
  
$
3,845
 
  
$
484
 
  
$
511
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The VOBA balances at December 31, 2011 were $250 million, $29 million, $1,509 million, $1,981 million, and $76 million related to the insurance transactions
associated with the CIGNA, Prudential Annuities Holding Co., Edison Inc., Star Inc., and Aoba Life Insurance Company, LTD. (“Aoba Life”), respectively. The weighted average remaining expected life of VOBA varies by product. The weighted
average remaining expected lives were approximately 16, 4, 8, 7, and 6 years for the VOBA related to CIGNA, Prudential Annuities Holding Co., Edison Inc., Star Inc. and Aoba Life, respectively. 


(2)
 
The interest accrual rates vary by product. The interest rates for 2011 were 7.10%, 4.81%, 1.28% to 2.87%, 1.28% to 2.87% and 2.60% for the VOBA related to CIGNA,
Prudential Annuities Holding Co., Edison Inc., Star Inc. and Aoba Life, respectively. The interest rates for 2010 were 7.00%, 4.97%, and 2.60% for the VOBA related to CIGNA, Prudential Annuities Holding Co., and Aoba Life, respectively. The interest
rates for 2009 were 5.42%, 6.90%, 5.24%, and 2.60% for the VOBA related to Allstate, CIGNA, American Skandia, and Aoba Life, respectively.   
During the first quarter of 2009 the Company recognized impairments of $73 million related to the VOBA associated with the Allstate
acquisition. These impairments are included on the “Amortization—Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups” line in the table above. The impairment recorded in 2009 represented the remaining VOBA balance associated
with the Allstate acquisition. These impairments were reflective of the deterioration in the financial markets, which resulted in additional market depreciation within the separate account assets and corresponding decreases in fee income and overall
expected future earnings for this business. These impairments were determined using discounted present value of future estimated gross profits. Since the VOBA balance was completely impaired for these contracts, it cannot be reestablished for market
value appreciation in subsequent periods. There were no impairments during 2011 and 2010. 
  322



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The following table provides estimated future amortization, net of interest, for the
periods indicated.   








 
  
VOBAAmortization
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2012
  
$
362
 

 2013
  
 
387
 

 2014
  
 
336
 

 2015
  
 
290
 

 2016
  
 
255
 

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
2,215
 


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,845
 


  
  
  
 
  
9.    GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES 
  The changes in the book value of goodwill
by area are as follows:   
































 
 
IndividualAnnuities
 
 
AssetManagement
 
 
Retirement
 
 
InternationalInsurance
 
 
InternationalInvestments
 
 
Real EstateandRelocationServices
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Gross Goodwill
 
$
97
  
 
$
241
  
 
$
444
  
 
$
17
  
 
$
123
  
 
$
117
  
 
$
1,039
  

 Accumulated Impairment Losses
 
 
(97
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(123
) 
 
 
(117
) 
 
 
(337
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Goodwill
 
 
0
  
 
 
241
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
702
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 2009 Activity:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Other(1)
 
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
7
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Gross Goodwill
 
 
97
  
 
 
242
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
117
  
 
 
1,046
  

 Accumulated Impairment Losses
 
 
(97
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(123
) 
 
 
(117
) 
 
 
(337
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Goodwill
 
 
0
  
 
 
242
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
709
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 2010 Activity:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Other(1)
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Gross Goodwill
 
 
97
  
 
 
239
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
117
  
 
 
1,044
  

 Accumulated Impairment Losses
 
 
(97
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(123
) 
 
 
(117
) 
 
 
(337
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Goodwill
 
 
0
  
 
 
239
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
707
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 2011 Activity:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Acquisitions
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
184
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
184
  

 Dispositions Gross Goodwill
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(117
) 
 
 
(117
) 

 Dispositions Accumulated Amortization
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
117
  
 
 
117
  

 Other(1)
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Gross Goodwill
 
 
97
  
 
 
238
  
 
 
444
  
 
 
206
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,108
  

 Accumulated Impairment Losses
 
 
(97
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(123
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(220
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Goodwill
 
$
0
  
 
$
238
  
 
$
444
  
 
$
206
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
888
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Other represents foreign currency translation and purchase price adjustments. 
  323



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually as of December 31 and more
frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, as discussed in further detail in Note 2. 
  The Company performed goodwill impairment testing for all
reporting units that had goodwill at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 and no impairments were needed.   
Other Intangibles   
Other intangible balances at December 31, are as follows:   




























 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
NetCarryingAmount
 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
NetCarryingAmount
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Subject to amortization:
  



  



 



  



  



 




 Mortgage servicing rights
  
$
320
  
  
$
(159
) 
 
$
161
  
  
$
296
  
  
$
(128
) 
 
$
168
  

 Customer relationships
  
 
288
  
  
 
(126
) 
 
 
162
  
  
 
282
  
  
 
(112
) 
 
 
170
  

 Other
  
 
25
  
  
 
(21
) 
 
 
4
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
(22
) 
 
 
7
  

 Not subject to amortization
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
8
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
7
  


  



  



 
  
  
 
  



  



 
  
  
 

 Total
  



  



 
$
335
  
  



  



 
$
352
  


  



  



 
  
  
 
  



  



 
  
  
 
   The fair values of net
mortgage servicing rights were $164 million and $172 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Amortization expense for other intangibles was $50 million, $45 million and $45 million for the years ending December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. Amortization expense for other intangibles is expected to be approximately $47 million in 2012, $44 million in 2013, $39 million in 2014, $35 million in 2015 and $32 million in 2016. The amortization expense amounts listed
above for 2011, 2010 and 2009 do not include impairments recorded for mortgage servicing rights. See the non-recurring fair value measurements section of Note 20 for more information regarding these impairments. 
 
10.    POLICYHOLDERS’ LIABILITIES 
  Future Policy Benefits 
  Future policy benefits at December 31, are as follows:
  












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Life insurance
  
$
131,178
 
  
$
107,320
 

 Individual and group annuities and supplementary contracts
  
 
24,840
 
  
 
19,046
 

 Other contract liabilities
  
 
11,697
 
  
 
5,031
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal future policy benefits excluding unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses
  
 
167,715
 
  
 
131,397
 

 Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses
  
 
2,744
 
  
 
2,477
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total future policy benefits
  
$
170,459
 
  
$
133,874
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Life insurance liabilities
include reserves for death and endowment policy benefits, terminal dividends and certain health benefits. Individual and group annuities and supplementary contracts liabilities include reserves for life contingent immediate annuities and life
contingent group annuities. Other contract liabilities include unearned revenue and certain other reserves for group, annuities and individual life and health products. 
  Future policy benefits for individual participating
traditional life insurance are based on the net level premium method, calculated using the guaranteed mortality and nonforfeiture interest rates which range from 
  324



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

2.5% to 7.5%. Participating insurance represented 5% and 6% of direct individual life insurance in force at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 17%, 24% and 28% of direct
individual life insurance premiums for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    Future policy benefits for individual non-participating traditional life insurance policies, group and individual long-term care policies and individual health insurance policies are generally equal to
the aggregate of (1) the present value of future benefit payments and related expenses, less the present value of future net premiums, and (2) any premium deficiency reserves. Assumptions as to mortality, morbidity and persistency are
based on the Company’s experience, and in certain instances, industry experience, when the basis of the reserve is established. Interest rates used in the determination of the present values range from 1.0% to 15.5%; less than 1% of the
reserves are based on an interest rate in excess of 8%.    Future policy benefits for individual and group annuities and supplementary contracts are generally equal to the aggregate of (1) the present value of expected future payments, and (2) any
premium deficiency reserves. Assumptions as to mortality are based on the Company’s experience, and in certain instances, industry experience, when the basis of the reserve is established. The interest rates used in the determination of the
present values range from 1.0% to 11.9%; less than 1% of the reserves are based on an interest rate in excess of 8%.   
Future policy benefits for other contract liabilities are generally equal to the present value of expected future payments based on the
Company’s experience, except for example, certain group insurance coverages for which future policy benefits are equal to gross unearned premium reserves. The interest rates used in the determination of the present values range from 0.1% to
6.0%.    Premium deficiency reserves are
established, if necessary, when the liability for future policy benefits plus the present value of expected future gross premiums are determined to be insufficient to provide for expected future policy benefits and expenses and to recover any
unamortized policy acquisition costs. Premium deficiency reserves have been recorded for the group single premium annuity business, which consists of limited-payment, long-duration, traditional, and non-participating annuities; structured
settlements; single premium immediate annuities with life contingencies; and for certain individual health policies. Liabilities of $2,447 million and $2,001 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are included in “Future
policy benefits” with respect to these deficiencies, of which $1,432 million and $926 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relate to net unrealized gains on securities classified as available-for-sale. 
  The Company’s liability for future policy benefits is
also inclusive of liabilities for guarantee benefits related to certain nontraditional long-duration life and annuity contracts, which are discussed more fully in Note 11 and are primarily reflected in other contract liabilities in the table above.
   Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses
primarily reflect the Company’s estimate of future disability claim payments and expenses as well as estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported as of the balance sheet dates related to group disability products. Unpaid claim liabilities
are discounted using interest rates ranging from 0% to 6.4%.   
Policyholders’ Account Balances   
Policyholders’ account balances at December 31, are as follows: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Individual annuities
  
$
41,717
 
  
$
24,387
 

 Group annuities
  
 
27,408
 
  
 
23,808
 

 Guaranteed investment contracts and guaranteed interest accounts
  
 
17,441
 
  
 
17,454
 

 Funding agreements
  
 
4,795
 
  
 
5,162
 

 Interest-sensitive life contracts
  
 
23,336
 
  
 
18,065
 

 Dividend accumulation and other
  
 
19,855
 
  
 
17,565
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total policyholders’ account balances
  
$
134,552
 
  
$
106,441
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  325



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Policyholders’ account balances represent an accumulation of account deposits plus
credited interest less withdrawals, expenses and mortality charges, if applicable. These policyholders’ account balances also include provisions for benefits under non-life contingent payout annuities. Included in “Funding agreements”
at December 31, 2011 and 2010, are $3,244 million and $3,592 million, respectively, related to the Company’s FANIP product which is carried at amortized cost, adjusted for the effective portion of changes in fair value of qualifying
derivative financial instruments. For additional details on the FANIP product see Note 5. The interest rates associated with such notes range from 0.5% to 5.5%. Interest crediting rates range from 0% to 10.0% for interest-sensitive life contracts
and from 0% to 13.4% for contracts other than interest-sensitive life. Less than 1% of policyholders’ account balances have interest crediting rates in excess of 8%. 
 
11.    CERTAIN NONTRADITIONAL LONG-DURATION CONTRACTS 
  The Company issues traditional variable
annuity contracts through its separate accounts for which investment income and investment gains and losses accrue directly to, and investment risk is borne by, the contractholder. The Company also issues variable annuity contracts with general and
separate account options where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder a return of no less than (1) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals (“return of net deposits”), (2) total
deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (“minimum return”), or (3) the highest contract value on a specified date minus any withdrawals (“contract value”). These guarantees include
benefits that are payable in the event of death, annuitization or at specified dates during the accumulation period and withdrawal and income benefits payable during specified periods. The Company also issues annuity contracts with market value
adjusted investment options (“MVAs”), which provide for a return of principal plus a fixed rate of return if held-to-maturity, or, alternatively, a “market adjusted value” if surrendered prior to maturity or if funds are
reallocated to other investment options. The market value adjustment may result in a gain or loss to the Company, depending on crediting rates or an indexed rate at surrender, as applicable.    In addition, the Company issues variable life, variable universal life and universal life contracts where the
Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder a death benefit even when there is insufficient value to cover monthly mortality and expense charges, whereas otherwise the contract would typically lapse (“no lapse guarantee”).
Variable life and variable universal life contracts are offered with general and separate account options.   
The assets supporting the variable portion of both traditional variable annuities and certain variable contracts with guarantees are
carried at fair value and reported as “Separate account assets” with an equivalent amount reported as “Separate account liabilities.” Amounts assessed against the contractholders for mortality, administration, and other services
are included within revenue in “Policy charges and fee income” and changes in liabilities for minimum guarantees are generally included in “Policyholders’ benefits.” In 2011, 2010, and 2009 there were no gains or losses on
transfers of assets from the general account to a separate account.    For those guarantees of benefits that are payable in the event of death, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account
balance at the balance sheet date. The Company’s primary risk exposures for these contracts relates to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including equity market returns,
contract lapses and contractholder mortality.    For
guarantees of benefits that are payable at annuitization, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the
contract in excess of the current account balance. The Company’s primary risk exposures for these contracts relates to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including equity
market returns, timing of annuitization, contract lapses and contractholder mortality. 
  326



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
For guarantees of benefits that are payable at withdrawal, the net amount at risk is
generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed withdrawal payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of accumulation
balances, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance minus the current account balance. The Company’s primary risk exposures for these contracts relates to actual deviations from, or changes to,
the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility or contractholder behavior used in the original pricing of these products. 
  The Company’s contracts with guarantees may offer more
than one type of guarantee in each contract; therefore, the amounts listed may not be mutually exclusive. The liabilities related to the net amount at risk are reflected within “Future policy benefits.” As of December 31, 2011 and
2010, the Company had the following guarantees associated with these contracts, by product and guarantee type:   












 
  
December 31, 2011
  
December 31, 2010

 
  
In the Event ofDeath
  
At Annuitization/Accumulation(1)
  
In the Event ofDeath
  
At Annuitization/Accumulation(1)

 
  
($ in millions)

 Variable Annuity Contracts
  

  

  

  








 Return of net deposits
  

  

  

  


 Account value
  
$78,436
  
$       21
  
$69,982
  
$     24

 Net amount at risk
  
$  2,083
  
$         1
  
$  1,132
  
$       6

 Average attained age of contractholders
  
61 years
  
68 years
  
61 years
  
67 years







 Minimum return or contract value
  

  

  

  


 Account value
  
$29,442
  
$86,648
  
$29,743
  
$75,743

 Net amount at risk
  
$  5,704
  
$  6,628
  
$  4,327
  
$  3,047

 Average attained age of contractholders
  
65 years
  
61 years
  
65 years
  
61 years

 Average period remaining until earliest expected annuitization
  
N/A
  
   1 year
  
N/A
  
  2 years
  


(1)
 
Includes income and withdrawal benefits as described herein.   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
UnadjustedValue
 
  
AdjustedValue
 
  
UnadjustedValue
 
  
AdjustedValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Variable Annuity Contracts
  



  



  



  










 Market value adjusted annuities
  



  



  



  




 Account value
  
$
 3,842
 
  
$
 3,933
 
  
$
4,023
 
  
$
4,232
 





 
  
December 31,
 
  
 
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
 
 

  
In the Event of Death
 
  

  
($ in millions)
 
  

 Variable Life, Variable Universal Life and Universal Life Contracts
  



  



  

 No lapse guarantees 
  



  



  

 Separate account value
  
$
2,915
  
  
$
2,771
  
  

 General account value
  
$
4,023
  
  
$
3,532
  
  

 Net amount at risk
  
$
78,947
  
  
$
73,513
  
  

 Average attained age of contractholders
  
 
48 years
  
  
 
47 years
  
  

  327



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Account balances of variable annuity contracts with guarantees were invested in separate
account investment options as follows:   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Equity funds
  
$
49,110
 
  
$
54,775
 

 Bond funds
  
 
42,791
 
  
 
28,064
 

 Balanced funds
  
 
377
 
  
 
314
 

 Money market funds
  
 
7,134
 
  
 
7,932
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
99,412
 
  
$
91,085
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   In addition to the amounts
invested in separate account investment options above, $8,466 million at December 31, 2011 and $8,641 million at December 31, 2010 of account balances of variable annuity contracts with guarantees, inclusive of contracts with MVA features,
were invested in general account investment options. 
  328



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Liabilities For Guarantee Benefits 
  The table below summarizes the changes in general account
liabilities for guarantees on variable contracts. The liabilities for guaranteed minimum death benefits (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefits (“GMIB”) are included in “Future policy benefits” and the related
changes in the liabilities are included in “Policyholders’ benefits.” Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (“GMAB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (“GMWB”), and guaranteed minimum income and withdrawal
benefits (“GMIWB”) features are considered to be bifurcated embedded derivatives and are recorded at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives, including changes in the Company’s own risk of non-performance, along
with any fees attributed or payments made relating to the derivative, are recorded in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” See Note 20 for additional information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of these
embedded derivatives. The liabilities for GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB are included in “Future policy benefits.” As discussed below, the Company maintains a portfolio of derivative investments that serve as a partial hedge of the risks associated
with these products, for which the changes in fair value are also recorded in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” This portfolio of derivative investments does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. 
 




















 
  
GMDB
 
 
GMIB
 
 
GMAB/GMWB/GMIWB
 

 
  
Variable Life,VariableUniversal LifeandUniversal Life
 
 
VariableAnnuity
 
 
VariableAnnuity
 
 
VariableAnnuity
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
$
122
  
 
$
563
  
 
$
259
  
 
$
3,229
  

 Incurred guarantee benefits—Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups(1)
  
 
15
  
 
 
(197
) 
 
 
(94
) 
 
 
0
  

 Incurred guarantee benefits—All other(1)
  
 
47
  
 
 
174
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
(3,174
) 

 Paid guarantee benefits and other
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
(244
) 
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
176
  
 
 
296
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
55
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Incurred guarantee benefits—Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups(1)
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
(116
) 
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
0
  

 Incurred guarantee benefits—All other(1)
  
 
55
  
 
 
137
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
(259
) 

 Paid guarantee benefits and other
  
 
0
  
 
 
(129
) 
 
 
(122
) 
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
202
  
 
 
188
  
 
 
114
  
 
 
(204
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Incurred guarantee benefits—Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups(1)
  
 
8
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
0
  

 Incurred guarantee benefits—All other(1)
  
 
71
  
 
 
147
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
3,061
  

 Paid guarantee benefits
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(113
) 
 
 
(42
) 
 
 
0
  

 Other(2)
  
 
9
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
302
  
 
 
29
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
288
  
 
$
319
  
 
$
405
  
 
$
2,886
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Incurred guarantee benefits include the portion of assessments established as additions to reserves as well as changes in estimates affecting the reserves. Also
includes changes in the fair value of features considered to be derivatives. 


(2)
 
Primarily represents amounts acquired from Star and Edison. Edison activity represents fixed annuity products. 
  The GMDB liability is determined each period end by
estimating the accumulated value of a portion of the total assessments to date less the accumulated value of the death benefits in excess of the account balance. The GMIB liability is determined each period by estimating the accumulated value of a
portion of the total assessments to date less the accumulated value of the projected income benefits in excess of the account balance. The portion of assessments used is chosen such that, at issue (or, in the case of acquired contracts at the
acquisition date) the present value of expected death benefits or expected income benefits in excess of the projected account balance and the portion of the present value of total expected assessments over the lifetime of

  329



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

the contracts are equal. The Company regularly evaluates the estimates used and adjusts the GMDB and GMIB liability balances, with an associated charge or credit to earnings, if actual experience
or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.    The GMAB features provide the contractholder with a guaranteed return of initial account value or an enhanced value if applicable. The most significant of the Company’s GMAB features are the
guaranteed return option (“GRO”) features, which includes an automatic rebalancing element that reduces the Company’s exposure to these guarantees. The GMAB liability is calculated as the present value of future expected payments to
customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature.   
The GMWB features provide the contractholder with a guaranteed remaining balance if the account value is reduced to zero through a
combination of market declines and withdrawals. The guaranteed remaining balance is generally equal to the protected value under the contract, which is initially established as the greater of the account value or cumulative deposits when withdrawals
commence, less cumulative withdrawals. The contractholder also has the option, after a specified time period, to reset the guaranteed remaining balance to the then-current account value, if greater. The GMWB liability is calculated as the present
value of future expected payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature.   
The GMIWB features predominantly present a benefit that provides a contractholder two optional methods to receive guaranteed minimum
payments over time, a “withdrawal” option or an “income” option. The withdrawal option guarantees that, upon the election of such benefit, a contract holder can withdraw an amount each year until the cumulative withdrawals reach
a total guaranteed balance. The guaranteed remaining balance is generally equal to the protected value under the contract, which is initially established as the greater of: (1) the account value on the date of first withdrawal;
(2) cumulative deposits when withdrawals commence, less cumulative withdrawals plus a minimum return; or (3) the highest contract value on a specified date minus any withdrawals. The income option guarantees that a contract holder can,
upon the election of this benefit, withdraw a lesser amount each year for the annuitant’s life based on the total guaranteed balance. The withdrawal or income benefit can be elected by the contract holder upon issuance of an appropriate
deferred variable annuity contract or at any time following contract issue prior to annuitization. Certain GMIWB features include an automatic rebalancing element that reduces the Company’s exposure to these guarantees. The GMIWB liability is
calculated as the present value of future expected payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. 
  As part of its risk management strategy, the Company hedges
or limits its exposure to these risks, excluding those risks that have been deemed suitable to retain and risks that are not able to be hedged, through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element, and
externally purchased hedging instruments, such as equity options and interest rate derivatives. The automatic rebalancing element included in the design of certain optional living benefits transfers assets between certain variable investments
selected by the annuity contractholder and, depending on the benefit feature, a fixed-rate account in the general account or a bond portfolio within the separate accounts. The transfers are based on the static mathematical formula used with the
particular optional benefit which considers a number of factors, including the impact of investment performance of the contractholder’s total account value. In general, negative investment performance may result in transfers to a fixed-rate
account in the general account or a bond portfolio within the separate accounts, and positive investment performance may result in transfers back to contractholder-selected variable investments. Other product design elements utilized for certain
products to manage these risks include asset allocation restrictions and minimum issuance age requirements. For risk management purposes the Company segregates the variable annuity living benefit features into those that include the automatic
rebalancing element, including certain GMIWB riders and certain GMAB riders that feature the GRO policyholder benefits; and those that do not include the automatic rebalancing element, including certain legacy GMIWB, GMWB, GMAB and GMIB riders.
Living benefit riders that include the automatic rebalancing element also include GMDB riders, and as such the GMDB risk in these riders also benefits from the automatic rebalancing element. 
  330



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Sales Inducements 
  The Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over
the anticipated life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize deferred policy acquisition costs. These deferred sales inducements are included in “Other assets.” The Company offers various types of sales
inducements. These inducements include: (1) a bonus whereby the policyholder’s initial account balance is increased by an amount equal to a specified percentage of the customer’s initial deposit, (2) additional credits after a
certain number of years a contract is held and (3) enhanced interest crediting rates that are higher than the normal general account interest rate credited in certain product lines. Changes in deferred sales inducements, reported as
“Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances,” are as follows:   








 
  
SalesInducements
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
$
1,023
 

 Capitalization
  
 
390
 

 Amortization—Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups
  
 
16
 

 Amortization—All other
  
 
(213
) 

 Change in unrealized investment gains and losses
  
 
(99
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
1,117
 


  
  
  
 

 Capitalization
  
 
431
 

 Amortization—Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups
  
 
52
 

 Amortization—All other
  
 
(267
) 

 Change in unrealized investment gains and losses
  
 
15
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,348
 


  
  
  
 

 Capitalization
  
 
359
 

 Amortization—Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups
  
 
(81
) 

 Amortization—All other
  
 
(645
) 

 Change in unrealized investment gains and losses and other
  
 
20
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
1,001
 


  
  
  
 
  
12.    CLOSED BLOCK 
  On the date of demutualization,
Prudential Insurance established a Closed Block for certain individual life insurance policies and annuities issued by Prudential Insurance in the U.S. The recorded assets and liabilities were allocated to the Closed Block at their historical
carrying amounts. The Closed Block forms the principal component of the Closed Block Business. For a discussion of the Closed Block Business see Note 22.   
The policies included in the Closed Block are specified individual life insurance policies and individual annuity contracts that were in
force on the effective date of the Plan of Reorganization and for which Prudential Insurance is currently paying or expects to pay experience-based policy dividends. Assets have been allocated to the Closed Block in an amount that has been
determined to produce cash flows which, together with revenues from policies included in the Closed Block, are expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including provision for payment of benefits,
certain expenses, and taxes and to provide for continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000, assuming experience underlying such scales continues. To the extent that, over time, cash flows from the assets allocated to the
Closed Block and claims and other experience related to the Closed Block are, in the aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the Closed Block was established, total dividends paid to Closed Block policyholders may be greater
than or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed will be available for distribution over time
to Closed Block policyholders and will not be available to stockholders. If the Closed Block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from assets outside of the Closed Block. The Closed Block will
continue in effect as long as any policy in the Closed Block remains in force unless, with the consent of the New Jersey insurance regulator, it is terminated earlier. 
  331



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The excess of Closed Block Liabilities over Closed Block Assets at the date of the
demutualization (adjusted to eliminate the impact of related amounts in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)”) represented the estimated maximum future earnings at that date from the Closed Block expected to result from
operations attributed to the Closed Block after income taxes. In establishing the Closed Block, the Company developed an actuarial calculation of the timing of such maximum future earnings. If actual cumulative earnings of the Closed Block from
inception through the end of any given period are greater than the expected cumulative earnings, only the expected earnings will be recognized in income. Any excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings will represent
undistributed accumulated earnings attributable to policyholders, which are recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. The policyholder dividend obligation represents amounts to be paid to Closed Block policyholders as an additional
policyholder dividend unless otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than originally expected. If the actual cumulative earnings of the Closed Block from its inception through the end of any given period are less
than the expected cumulative earnings of the Closed Block, the Company will recognize only the actual earnings in income. However, the Company may reduce policyholder dividend scales, which would be intended to increase future actual earnings until
the actual cumulative earnings equaled the expected cumulative earnings.    As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized a policyholder dividend obligation of $762 million and $126 million, respectively, to Closed Block policyholders for the excess of actual
cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings. Additionally, accumulated net unrealized investment gains that have arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block have been reflected as a policyholder dividend obligation of
$3,847 million and $2,117 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, to be paid to Closed Block policyholders unless offset by future experience, with an offsetting amount reported in “Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss).” See the table below for changes in the components of the policyholder dividend obligation for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
On December 13, 2011 and December 14, 2010, Prudential Insurance’s Board of Directors approved a continuation of the Closed
Block dividend scales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. On December 8, 2009, Prudential Insurance’s Board of Directors acted to reduce the dividends payable in 2010 on Closed Block policies. This decrease reflected the deterioration in
investment results and resulted in a $98 million reduction of the liability for policyholder dividends recognized in the year ended December 31, 2009. 
  332



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Closed Block Liabilities and Assets designated to the Closed Block at December 31,
as well as maximum future earnings to be recognized from Closed Block Liabilities and Closed Block Assets, are as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Closed Block Liabilities
  



  




 Future policy benefits
  
$
51,424
 
  
$
51,632
 

 Policyholders’ dividends payable
  
 
902
 
  
 
909
 

 Policyholders’ dividend obligation
  
 
4,609
 
  
 
2,243
 

 Policyholders’ account balances
  
 
5,484
 
  
 
5,536
 

 Other Closed Block liabilities
  
 
4,030
 
  
 
4,637
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Closed Block Liabilities
  
 
66,449
 
  
 
64,957
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Closed Block Assets
  



  




 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
42,024
 
  
 
41,044
 

 Other trading account assets, at fair value
  
 
269
 
  
 
150
 

 Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair value
  
 
3,122
 
  
 
3,545
 

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
8,322
 
  
 
7,827
 

 Policy loans
  
 
5,296
 
  
 
5,377
 

 Other long-term investments
  
 
2,080
 
  
 
1,662
 

 Short-term investments
  
 
485
 
  
 
1,119
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investments
  
 
61,598
 
  
 
60,724
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
1,006
 
  
 
345
 

 Accrued investment income
  
 
571
 
  
 
600
 

 Other Closed Block assets
  
 
284
 
  
 
275
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Closed Block Assets
  
 
63,459
 
  
 
61,944
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Excess of reported Closed Block Liabilities over Closed Block Assets
  
 
2,990
 
  
 
3,013
 

 Portion of above representing accumulated other comprehensive income:
  



  




 Net unrealized investment gains (losses)
  
 
3,836
 
  
 
2,092
 

 Allocated to policyholder dividend obligation
  
 
(3,847
) 
  
 
(2,117
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Future earnings to be recognized from Closed Block Assets and Closed Block Liabilities
  
$
2,979
 
  
$
2,988
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Information regarding the
policyholder dividend obligation is as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance, January 1
  
$
2,243
 
  
$
0
 

 Impact from earnings allocable to policyholder dividend obligation
  
 
636
 
  
 
126
 

 Change in net unrealized investment gains (losses) allocated to policyholder dividend obligation
  
 
1,730
 
  
 
2,117
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31
  
$
4,609
 
  
$
2,243
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  333



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Closed Block revenues and benefits and expenses for the years ended December 31,
were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Revenues
  



  



  




 Premiums
  
$
2,918
  
  
$
3,007
  
  
$
3,250
  

 Net investment income
  
 
2,976
  
  
 
2,994
  
  
 
2,907
  

 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
855
  
  
 
804
  
  
 
(1,219
) 

 Other income
  
 
38
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
102
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Closed Block revenues
  
 
6,787
  
  
 
6,843
  
  
 
5,040
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Benefits and Expenses
  



  



  




 Policyholders’ benefits
  
 
3,482
  
  
 
3,512
  
  
 
3,762
  

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances
  
 
139
  
  
 
140
  
  
 
141
  

 Dividends to policyholders
  
 
2,571
  
  
 
2,071
  
  
 
1,222
  

 General and administrative expenses
  
 
519
  
  
 
540
  
  
 
568
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Closed Block benefits and expenses
  
 
6,711
  
  
 
6,263
  
  
 
5,693
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Closed Block revenues, net of Closed Block benefits and expenses, before income taxes and discontinued operations
  
 
76
  
  
 
580
  
  
 
(653
) 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
67
  
  
 
(38
) 
  
 
(63
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Closed Block revenues, net of Closed Block benefits and expenses and income taxes, before discontinued operations
  
 
9
  
  
 
618
  
  
 
(590
) 

 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Closed Block revenues, net of Closed Block benefits and expenses, income taxes and discontinued operations
  
$
9
  
  
$
619
  
  
$
(590
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
13.    REINSURANCE 
  The Company participates in reinsurance
in order to provide additional capacity for future growth, to limit the maximum net loss potential arising from large risks and in acquiring or disposing of businesses. 
  In 2006, the Company acquired the variable annuity business
of The Allstate Corporation (“Allstate”) through a reinsurance transaction. The reinsurance arrangements with Allstate include a coinsurance arrangement associated with the general account liabilities assumed and a modified coinsurance
arrangement associated with the separate account liabilities assumed. The reinsurance payable, which represents the Company’s obligation under the modified coinsurance arrangement, is netted with the reinsurance receivable in the Company’s
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.    In
2004, the Company acquired the retirement business of CIGNA and as a result, entered into various reinsurance arrangements. The Company still has indemnity coinsurance and modified coinsurance without assumption arrangements in effect related to
this acquisition.    Life and disability reinsurance
is accomplished through various plans of reinsurance, primarily yearly renewable term, per person excess and coinsurance. In addition, the Company has reinsured with unaffiliated third parties, 83% of the Closed Block through various modified
coinsurance arrangements. The Company accounts for these modified coinsurance arrangements under the deposit method of accounting. Reinsurance ceded arrangements do not discharge the Company as the primary insurer. Ceded balances would represent a
liability of the Company in the event the reinsurers were unable to meet their obligations to the Company under the terms of the reinsurance agreements. Reinsurance premiums, commissions, expense reimbursements, benefits and reserves related to
reinsured long-duration contracts are accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured contracts using assumptions consistent with those used to account for the underlying contracts. The cost of reinsurance related to short-duration contracts
is accounted for over the reinsurance contract period. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers, for both short-and long-duration reinsurance arrangements, are estimated in a manner consistent with the claim liabilities and policy benefits associated
with the reinsured policies. 
  334



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The tables presented below exclude amounts pertaining to the Company’s discontinued
operations.    Reinsurance amounts included in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations for premiums, policy charges and fees and policyholders’ benefits for the years ended December 31, were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Direct premiums
  
$
25,563
 
  
$
19,360
 
  
$
17,787
 

 Reinsurance assumed
  
 
128
 
  
 
163
 
  
 
90
 

 Reinsurance ceded
  
 
(1,353
) 
  
 
(1,263
) 
  
 
(1,332
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Premiums
  
$
24,338
 
  
$
18,260
 
  
$
16,545
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Direct policy charges and fees
  
$
3,894
 
  
$
3,239
 
  
$
2,777
 

 Reinsurance assumed
  
 
124
 
  
 
140
 
  
 
139
 

 Reinsurance ceded
  
 
(94
) 
  
 
(58
) 
  
 
(83
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Policy charges and fees
  
$
3,924
 
  
$
3,321
 
  
$
2,833
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Direct policyholder benefits
  
$
24,638
 
  
$
19,246
 
  
$
17,565
 

 Reinsurance assumed
  
 
289
 
  
 
286
 
  
 
149
 

 Reinsurance ceded
  
 
(1,313
) 
  
 
(1,247
) 
  
 
(1,368
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Policyholders’ benefits
  
$
23,614
 
  
$
18,285
 
  
$
16,346
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Reinsurance recoverables at
December 31, are as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Individual and group annuities(1)
  
$
722
 
  
$
1,075
 

 Life Insurance
  
 
661
 
  
 
635
 

 Other reinsurance
  
 
148
 
  
 
127
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total reinsurance recoverable
  
$
1,531
 
  
$
1,837
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Primarily represents reinsurance recoverables established under the reinsurance arrangements associated with the acquisition of the retirement business of CIGNA. The
Company has recorded related reinsurance payables of $713 million and $1,068 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
Excluding the reinsurance recoverable associated with the acquisition of the retirement business of CIGNA, four major reinsurance
companies account for approximately 58% of the reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2011. The Company periodically reviews the financial condition of its reinsurers and amounts recoverable therefrom in order to minimize its exposure to loss
from reinsurer insolvencies, recording an allowance when necessary for uncollectible reinsurance.   
14.    SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT 
  Short-term Debt 
  Short-term debt at December 31, is as follows:
  












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Commercial paper
  
$
1,166
 
  
$
1,157
 

 Other notes payable(1)
  
 
209
 
  
 
278
 

 Current portion of long-term debt
  
 
961
 
  
 
547
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total short-term debt(2)
  
$
2,336
 
  
$
1,982
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes collateralized borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York of $199 million and $275 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively,
discussed in more detail below. 


(2)
 
Includes Prudential Financial debt of $1,252 million and $769 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  335



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The weighted average interest rate on outstanding short-term debt, excluding the current
portion of long-term debt was 0.31% and 0.39% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company was in compliance with all covenants related to the above debt. 
  Commercial Paper 
  The Company issues commercial paper under the two programs
described below. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the weighted average maturity of total commercial paper outstanding was 21 and 34 days, respectively.   
Prudential Financial has a commercial paper program with an authorized capacity of $3.0 billion. Prudential Financial commercial paper
borrowings have been generally used to fund the working capital needs of Prudential Financial’s subsidiaries and provide short-term liquidity at Prudential Financial. Prudential Financial’s outstanding commercial paper borrowings were $296
million and $283 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.    Prudential Funding, LLC (“Prudential Funding”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, has a commercial paper program, with an authorized capacity of $7.0 billion. Prudential Funding
commercial paper borrowings have generally served as an additional source of financing to meet the working capital needs of Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries. Prudential Funding also lends to other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial up to
limits agreed with the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. Prudential Funding’s outstanding commercial paper borrowings were $870 million and $874 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Prudential Financial has
issued a subordinated guarantee covering Prudential Funding’s domestic commercial paper program.   
Federal Home Loan Bank of New York   
Prudential Insurance is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”). Membership allows Prudential Insurance
access to the FHLBNY’s financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. FHLBNY borrowings and funding agreements are
collateralized by qualifying mortgage-related assets or U.S. Treasury securities, the fair value of which must be maintained at certain specified levels relative to outstanding borrowings, depending on the type of asset pledged. FHLBNY membership
requires Prudential Insurance to own member stock and borrowings require the purchase of activity-based stock in an amount equal to 4.5% of outstanding borrowings. Under FHLBNY guidelines, if Prudential Insurance’s financial strength ratings
decline below A/A2/A Stable by S&P/Moody’s/Fitch, respectively, and the FHLBNY does not receive written assurances from the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance (“NJDOBI”) regarding Prudential Insurance’s solvency,
new borrowings from the FHLBNY would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. Currently there are no restrictions on the term of borrowings from the FHLBNY. All FHLBNY stock purchased by Prudential Insurance is classified as restricted general
account investments within “Other long-term investments,” and the carrying value of these investments was $173 million and $177 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  NJDOBI permits Prudential Insurance to pledge collateral to
the FHLBNY in an amount of up to 5% of its prior year-end statutory net admitted assets, excluding separate account assets. Based on Prudential Insurance’s statutory net admitted assets as of December 31, 2010, the 5% limitation equates to
a maximum amount of pledged assets of $7.4 billion and an estimated maximum borrowing capacity (after taking into account required collateralization levels and purchases of activity-based stock) of approximately $6.1 billion. Nevertheless, FHLBNY
borrowings are subject to the FHLBNY’s discretion and to the availability of qualifying assets at Prudential Insurance.   
As of December 31, 2011, Prudential Insurance had pledged qualifying assets with a fair value of $2.8 billion, which supported
outstanding collateralized advances of $0.9 billion and collateralized funding agreements of $1.5 billion. The fair value of qualifying assets that were available to Prudential Insurance but not pledged amounted to $5.6 billion as of
December 31, 2011. 
  336



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
As of December 31, 2011, $199 million of the FHLBNY outstanding advances is
reflected in “Short-term debt” and matures in December 2012 and the remaining $725 million is in “Long-term debt” and matures in December 2015. The funding agreements issued to the FHLBNY, which are reflected in
“Policyholders’ account balances,” have priority claim status above debt holders of Prudential Insurance.   
Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston   
Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company (“PRIAC”) is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston
(“FHLBB”). Membership allows PRIAC access to collateralized advances which will be classified in “Short-term debt” or “Long-term debt,” depending on the maturity date of the obligation. PRIAC’s membership in FHLBB
requires the ownership of member stock and borrowings from FHLBB require the purchase of activity-based stock in an amount between 3.0% and 4.5% of outstanding borrowings depending on the maturity date of the obligation. As of December 31,
2011, PRIAC had no advances outstanding under the FHLBB facility.    The Connecticut Department of Insurance (“CTDOI”) permits PRIAC to pledge up to $2.6 billion in qualifying assets to secure FHLBB borrowings through December 31, 2011. PRIAC must seek
re-approval from CTDOI prior to borrowing additional funds after that date. Based on available eligible assets as of December 31, 2011, PRIAC had an estimated maximum borrowing capacity, after taking into consideration required
collateralization levels and required purchases of activity-based FHLBB stock, of approximately $1.2 billion.   
Credit Facilities   
As of December 31, 2011, Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding maintained an aggregate of $3,750 million of revolving credit
facilities, which includes a $2,000 million five-year credit facility that has Prudential Financial as borrower and a $1,750 million three-year credit facility that has both Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding as borrowers. These credit
facilities were entered into in December 2011 and replaced the previously-existing $3,928 million of credit facilities. There were no outstanding borrowings under these credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. 
  Each of the facilities is available to the applicable
borrowers up to the aggregate committed credit and may be used for general corporate purposes, including as backup liquidity for the Company’s commercial paper programs discussed above. Prudential Financial expects that it may borrow under the
five-year credit facility from time to time to fund its working capital needs and those of its subsidiaries. In addition, up to $300 million of the five-year facility may be drawn in the form of standby letters of credit that can be used to meet the
Company’s operating needs.    The credit
facilities contain representations and warranties, covenants and events of default that are customary for facilities of this type; however, borrowings under the facilities are not contingent on the Company’s credit ratings nor subject to
material adverse change clauses. Borrowings under the credit facilities are conditioned on the continued satisfaction of other customary conditions, including the maintenance at all times of consolidated net worth, relating to the Company’s
Financial Services Businesses only, of at least $21.25 billion, which for this purpose is calculated as U.S. GAAP equity, excluding “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” and excluding equity of noncontrolling interests. Under the
applicable credit agreements, the required minimum level of consolidated net worth will be reduced automatically in the future by an amount equal to 85 percent of the amount of any reduction, on an after-tax basis, in the total U.S. GAAP equity
attributable to the Company’s Financial Services Businesses, resulting from the Company’s expected retrospective application of FASB’s amended authoritative guidance regarding the deferral of costs relating to the acquisition of new
or renewal insurance contracts.    As of
December 31, 2011, the consolidated net worth of the Company’s Financial Services Businesses exceeded the minimum amount required to borrow under the credit facilities. 
  337



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
In addition to the above credit facilities, the Company had access to $860 million of
certain other lines of credit at December 31, 2011, of which $815 million was related to its real estate separate accounts activities. At December 31, 2011, $30 million of these credit facilities were used. The Company also has access to
uncommitted lines of credit from financial institutions.   
Long-term Debt   
Long-term debt at December 31, is as follows:   
















 
  
MaturityDates
 
 Rate
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
 
 
 
  
(in millions)
 

 Prudential Holdings, LLC notes (the “IHC debt”):
  

 

  



  




 Series A
  
2017(1)
 
(2)
  
$
333
  
  
$
333
  

 Series B
  
2023(1)
 
7.245%
  
 
777
  
  
 
777
  

 Series C
  
2023(1)
 
8.695%
  
 
640
  
  
 
640
  

 Fixed-rate notes:
  

 

  



  




 Surplus notes subject to set-off arrangements
  
2021
 
4.99%-5.22%
  
 
500
  
  
 
0
  

 Surplus notes
  
2015-2025
 
5.36%-8.30%
  
 
940
  
  
 
942
  

 Other fixed-rate notes(3)
  
2012-2041
 
2.21%-11.31%
  
 
16,353
  
  
 
15,879
  

 Floating-rate notes:
  

 

  



  




 Surplus notes
  
2016-2052
 
(4)
  
 
3,200
  
  
 
3,200
  

 Yen-denominated notes
  
(5)
 
(6)
  
 
520
  
  
 
0
  

 Other floating-rate notes
  
2012-2020
 
(7)
  
 
340
  
  
 
363
  

 Junior subordinated notes
  
2068
 
8.88%-9.00%
  
 
1,519
  
  
 
1,519
  


  

 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  

 

  
 
25,122
  
  
 
23,653
  


  

 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Less: assets under set-off arrangements(8)
  

 

  
 
500
  
  
 
0
  


  

 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt(9)
  

 

  
$
24,622
  
  
$
23,653
  


  

 

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Annual scheduled repayments of principal for the Series A and Series C notes begin in 2013. Annual scheduled repayments of principal for the Series B notes begin in
2018. 


(2)
 
The interest rate on the Series A notes is a floating rate equal to LIBOR plus 0.875% per year. The interest rate ranged from 1.1% to 1.4% for both 2011 and 2010.



(3)
 
Includes collateralized borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York of $725 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010. These borrowings are discussed in
more detail above. 


(4)
 
The interest rate on the floating rate Surplus notes ranged from 0.5% to 3.6% in 2011 and 0.5% to 3.7% in 2010. 


(5)
 
The yen-denominated notes include $80 million of perpetual debt that has no stated maturity. Maturities on the remaining debt ranges from 2014 to 2026.



(6)
 
The interest rates on the yen-denominated notes are based on euro/yen LIBOR. Interest rates ranged from 0.8% to 1.7% in 2011. 


(7)
 
The interest rates on the other floating rate notes are based on LIBOR and the U.S. Consumer Price Index. Interest rates ranged from 1.8% to 6.6% in 2011 and 0.0% to
5.5% in 2010. 


(8)
 
Assets under set-off arrangements represent a reduction in the amount of fixed-rate surplus notes included in long-term debt, relating to an arrangement where valid
rights of set-off exist and it is the intent of both parties to settle on a net basis under legally enforceable arrangements. 


(9)
 
Includes Prudential Financial debt of $17,300 million and $16,841 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company was in
compliance with all debt covenants related to the borrowings in the table above. 
  338



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The following table presents the Company’s contractual maturities of its long-term
debt as of December 31, 2011:   








 
  
Long-term Debt
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Calendar Year:
  




 2013
  
$
1,825
 

 2014
  
 
2,064
 

 2015
  
 
3,159
 

 2016
  
 
1,502
 

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
16,072
 


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
24,622
 


  
  
  
 
   Surplus Notes
   The fixed-rate surplus notes issued by
Prudential Insurance are subordinated to other Prudential Insurance borrowings and policyholder obligations, and the payment of interest and principal may only be made with the prior approval of the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance of the State
of New Jersey (the “Commissioner”). The Commissioner could prohibit the payment of the interest and principal on the surplus notes if certain statutory capital requirements are not met. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company met
these statutory capital requirements.    During
2011, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance entered into agreements providing for the issuance and sale of up to $1 billion of ten-year fixed rate surplus notes in order to finance reserves required under Regulation XXX. At December 31, 2011,
$500 million of surplus notes were outstanding under this facility. Under the agreements, the subsidiary issuer received debt securities, with a principal amount equal to the surplus notes issued, which are redeemable under certain circumstances,
including upon the occurrence of specified stress events affecting the subsidiary issuer. Because valid rights of set-off exist, interest and principal payments on the surplus notes and on the debt securities are settled on a net basis, and the
surplus notes are reflected in the Company’s total consolidated borrowings on a net basis. Prudential Financial has agreed to make capital contributions to the subsidiary issuer in order to reimburse it for investment losses in excess of
specified amounts.    In September 2009,
Prudential Insurance issued in a private placement $500 million of surplus notes due September 2019 with an interest rate of 5.36% per annum. The surplus notes are exchangeable at the option of the holder, in whole but not in part, for shares
of Prudential Financial Common Stock beginning in September 2014, or earlier upon a fundamental business combination involving Prudential Financial or a continuing payment default. The initial exchange rate for the surplus notes is 10.1235 shares of
Common Stock per each $1,000 principal amount of surplus notes, which represents an initial exchange price per share of Common Stock of $98.78; however, the exchange rate is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. The exchange rate is also
subject to a make-whole decrease in the event of an exchange prior to maturity (except upon a fundamental business combination or a continuing payment default), that will result in a reduction in the number of shares issued upon exchange (per $1,000
principal amount of surplus notes) determined by dividing a prescribed cash reduction value (which will decline over the life of the surplus notes, from $102.62 for an exercise on September 18, 2014 to zero for an exercise at maturity) by the
price of the Common Stock at the time of exchange. In addition, the exchange rate is subject to a customary make-whole increase in connection with an exchange of the surplus notes upon a fundamental business combination where 10% or more of the
consideration in that business combination consists of cash, other property or securities that are not listed on a U.S. national securities exchange.   
These exchangeable surplus notes are not redeemable by Prudential Insurance prior to maturity, except in connection with a fundamental
business combination involving Prudential Financial, in which case the surplus 
  339



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

notes will be redeemable by Prudential Insurance, subject to the noteholders’ right to exchange the surplus notes instead, at par or, if greater, a make-whole redemption price. The surplus
notes are subordinated to all other Prudential Insurance borrowings and policyholder obligations, except for other surplus notes of Prudential Insurance (including those currently outstanding), with which the surplus notes rank pari passu.
Payments of interest and principal on the surplus notes may only be made with the prior approval of the Commissioner.   
During 2007, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance issued $500 million of 45-year floating-rate surplus notes to an unaffiliated financial
institution. Surplus notes issued under this facility are subordinated to policyholder obligations, and the payment of interest and principal on them may only be made by the issuer with the prior approval of the Arizona Department of Insurance.
Concurrent with the issuance of these surplus notes, Prudential Financial entered into a credit derivative that will require Prudential Financial to make certain payments in the event of deterioration in the value of the surplus notes. As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the credit derivative was a liability of $77 million and $26 million, respectively, with no requirement to pledge collateral.   
During 2006, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance entered into a surplus note purchase agreement with an unaffiliated financial
institution that provides for the issuance of up to $3,000 million of ten-year floating-rate surplus notes. At both December 31, 2011 and 2010, $2,700 million were outstanding under this agreement. Concurrent with the issuance of each surplus
note, Prudential Financial enters into arrangements with the buyer, which are accounted for as derivative instruments that may result in payments by, or to, Prudential Financial over the term of the surplus notes, to the extent there are significant
changes in the value of the surplus notes. Surplus notes issued under this facility are subordinated to policyholder obligations, and the payment of interest and principal on them may only be made by the issuer with the prior approval of the Arizona
Department of Insurance. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, these derivative instruments had no material value.   
Junior Subordinated Notes   
In June and July 2008, Prudential Financial issued $600 million of 8.875% fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated notes to
institutional investors and $920 million of 9% fixed-rate junior subordinated notes to retail investors. Both issuances are considered hybrid capital securities, which receive enhanced equity treatment from the rating agencies. Both series of notes
have a scheduled maturity of June 15, 2038 and a final maturity of June 15, 2068. Prudential Financial is required to use commercially reasonable efforts, subject to market disruption events, to raise sufficient proceeds from the issuance
of specified qualifying capital securities, which include hybrid capital securities, to repay the principal of the notes at their scheduled maturity. For the institutional notes, interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 8.875% until
June 15, 2018, from which date interest is payable quarterly at a floating rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 5.00%. Prudential Financial may redeem the institutional notes, subject to the terms of the replacement capital covenant
(“RCC”), as discussed below, in whole or in part, on or after June 15, 2018 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest or prior to June 15, 2018 at a make-whole price. Prudential Financial may redeem the retail
notes, subject to the terms of the RCC as discussed below, on or after June 15, 2013, in whole or in part, at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest or prior to June 15, 2013, in whole, at a make-whole price. Both
series of notes may also be redeemed in whole upon the occurrence of certain defined events. Prudential Financial has the right to defer interest payments on either or both series of notes for a period up to ten years, during which time interest
will be compounded. If Prudential Financial were to exercise its right to defer interest it will be required, commencing on the earlier of (i) the first interest payment date on which current interest is paid after the deferral period or
(ii) the fifth anniversary of the deferral period, to issue specified alternative payment securities, which include but are not limited to Common Stock, to satisfy its obligation with respect to the deferred interest. In connection with the
issuance of both series of notes, Prudential Financial entered into a RCC for the benefit of holders of the Company’s 6.625% Senior Notes due 2037. Under the RCC, Prudential Financial agreed that it will not repay, redeem, defease, or purchase
these junior subordinated notes prior to June 15, 2048, unless it has received proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement capital securities, which include but are not limited to hybrid capital securities as well as Common Stock. The
RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including acceleration due to an event of default. 
  340



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Medium-term Notes    Prudential Financial maintains a Medium-term Notes, Series D program under its shelf registration statement
with an authorized issuance capacity of $20 billion. As of December 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of Medium-term notes was $14.1 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion from December 31, 2010, resulting primarily from $1.5 billion of
issuances presented in the below table, partially offset by a maturity of $0.4 billion.   














 Issue Date
  
Face Value
 
  
Interest Rate
 
 
Maturity Date

 
  
(in millions)
 
  
 
 
 
 

 May 12, 2011
  
$
500
 
  
 
3.000
% 
 
May 12, 2016

 May 12, 2011
  
$
300
 
  
 
5.625
% 
 
May 12, 2041

 November 16, 2011
  
$
400
 
  
 
4.500
% 
 
November 16, 2021

 November 16, 2011
  
$
325
 
  
 
5.800
% 
 
November 16, 2041
   Retail Medium-term Notes
   Prudential Financial
also maintains a retail medium-term notes program, including the InterNotes® program, under its shelf
registration statement with an authorized issuance capacity of $5.0 billion. As of December 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of retail notes was $2.6 billion, a decrease of $154 million from December 31, 2010, resulting primarily from
maturities and redemptions at the request of the Company.    Star and Edison Businesses Acquisition    On February 1, 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses from AIG. In conjunction with this acquisition, the Company assumed ¥47.8 billion of long-term debt,
of which ¥32.5 billion and ¥5.3 billion are scheduled to mature in 2014 and 2026, respectively, and ¥10 billion of debt has no stated maturity date. The carrying value of the debt at December 31, 2011, was $520 million. The Star and
Edison Businesses hold $79 million of the Company’s medium-term notes. As a result, the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses by the Company resulted in a $79 million reduction of the Company’s consolidated long-term debt.
   Other 
  In order to modify exposure to interest rate and currency
exchange rate movements, the Company utilizes derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, in conjunction with some of its debt issues. The impact of these derivative instruments are not reflected in the rates presented in the tables
above. For those derivative instruments that qualify for hedge accounting treatment, interest expense was increased by $12 million, by $5 million, and by $13 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. See Note
21 for additional information on the Company’s use of derivative instruments.    Interest expense for short-term and long-term debt was $1,315 million, $1,224 million and $1,168 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This includes interest
expense of $17 million, $39 million and $93 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reported in “Net investment income.” 
  Included in “Policyholders’ account balances”
are additional debt obligations of the Company. See Notes 5 and 10 for further discussion.    Prudential Holdings, LLC Notes    On December 18, 2001, the date of demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC (“PHLLC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial, issued $1,750 million in senior secured notes (the
“IHC debt”). PHLLC owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance and does not have any operating businesses of its own. 
  341



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

The IHC debt represents senior secured obligations of PHLLC with limited recourse; neither Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance nor any other affiliate of PHLLC is an obligor or guarantor
on the IHC debt. The IHC debt is collateralized by 13.8% of the outstanding common stock of Prudential Insurance and other items specified in the indenture, primarily the “Debt Service Coverage Account” (the “DSCA”) discussed
below.    PHLLC’s ability to meet its
obligations under the IHC debt is dependent principally upon sufficient available funds being generated by the Closed Block Business and the ability of Prudential Insurance, the sole direct subsidiary of PHLLC, to dividend such funds to PHLLC. The
payment of scheduled principal and interest on the Series A notes and the Series B notes is insured by a financial guarantee insurance policy. The payment of principal and interest on the Series C notes is not insured. The IHC debt is redeemable
prior to its stated maturity at the option of PHLLC and, in the event of certain circumstances, the IHC debt bond insurer can require PHLLC to redeem the IHC debt. 
  Net proceeds from the IHC debt amounted to $1,727 million, of
which, $1,218 million was distributed to Prudential Financial through a dividend on the date of demutualization for use in the Financial Services Businesses. In addition, $72 million was used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund
a portion of the financial guarantee insurance premium related to the IHC debt. The remainder of the net proceeds was deposited to a restricted account within PHLLC, referred to as the DSCA, and constitutes collateral for the IHC debt. The balance
in the DSCA was $764 million as of December 31, 2011.    Summarized consolidated financial data for Prudential Holdings, LLC is presented below.   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position:
  



  




 Total assets
  
$
401,559
  
  
$
374,655
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
380,644
  
  
$
354,409
  

 Total member’s equity
  
 
20,906
  
  
 
20,223
  

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
9
  
  
 
23
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total equity
  
 
20,915
  
  
 
20,246
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
401,559
  
  
$
374,655
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Consolidated Statements of Operations:
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Total revenues
  
$
25,239
 
  
$
23,959
 
  
$
20,223
 

 Total benefits and expenses
  
 
24,229
 
  
 
21,300
 
  
 
19,934
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint
ventures
  
 
1,010
 
  
 
2,659
 
  
 
289
 

 Net income
  
 
801
 
  
 
1,955
 
  
 
2,241
 

 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
(13
) 
  
 
1
 
  
 
1
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Prudential Holdings, LLC.
  
$
814
 
  
$
1,954
 
  
$
2,240
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows:
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Cash flows from operating activities
  
$
3,465
 
  
$
1,492
 
  
$
3,065
 

 Cash flows from (used in) investing activities
  
 
(4,741
) 
  
 
(3,684
) 
  
 
5,375
 

 Cash flows used in financing activities
  
 
2,278
 
  
 
(1,367
) 
  
 
(9,389
) 

 Effect of foreign exchange in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(15
) 
  
 
(28
) 
  
 
9
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
$
987
 
  
$
(3,587
) 
  
$
(940
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  342



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Prudential Financial is a holding company and is a legal entity separate and distinct
from its subsidiaries. The rights of Prudential Financial to participate in any distribution of assets of any subsidiary, including upon its liquidation or reorganization, are subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to
the extent that Prudential Financial may itself be a creditor of that subsidiary and its claims are recognized. PHLLC and its subsidiaries have entered into covenants and arrangements with third parties in connection with the issuance of the IHC
debt which are intended to confirm their separate, “bankruptcy-remote” status, by assuring that the assets of PHLLC and its subsidiaries are not available to creditors of Prudential Financial or its other subsidiaries, except and to the
extent that Prudential Financial and its other subsidiaries are, as shareholders or creditors of PHLLC and its subsidiaries, or would be, entitled to those assets. 
  At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with
all IHC debt covenants.   
15.    EQUITY 
  The Company has outstanding two classes
of common stock: the Common Stock and the Class B Stock. The changes in the number of shares issued, held in treasury and outstanding are as follows for the periods indicated:   




















 
  
Common Stock
 
 
Class B Stock
 

 
  
Issued
 
  
Held InTreasury
 
 
Outstanding
 
 
Issued andOutstanding
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
  
 
604.9
 
  
 
183.6
 
 
 
421.3
 
 
 
2.0
 

 Common Stock issued(2)
  
 
36.9
 
  
 
0.0
 
 
 
36.9
 
 
 
0.0
 

 Common Stock acquired
  
 
0.0
 
  
 
0.0
 
 
 
0.0
 
 
 
0.0
 

 Stock-based compensation programs(1)
  
 
0.0
 
  
 
(3.9
) 
 
 
3.9
 
 
 
0.0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
  
 
641.8
 
  
 
179.7
 
 
 
462.1
 
 
 
2.0
 

 Common Stock issued(3)
  
 
18.3
 
  
 
0.0
 
 
 
18.3
 
 
 
0.0
 

 Common Stock acquired
  
 
0.0
 
  
 
0.0
 
 
 
0.0
 
 
 
0.0
 

 Stock-based compensation programs(1)
  
 
0.0
 
  
 
(3.4
) 
 
 
3.4
 
 
 
0.0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
  
 
660.1
 
  
 
176.3
 
 
 
483.8
 
 
 
2.0
 

 Common Stock issued
  
 
0.0
 
  
 
0.0
 
 
 
0.0
 
 
 
0.0
 

 Common Stock acquired
  
 
0.0
 
  
 
19.8
 
 
 
(19.8
) 
 
 
0.0
 

 Stock-based compensation programs(1)
  
 
0.0
 
  
 
(4.0
) 
 
 
4.0
 
 
 
0.0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
  
 
660.1
 
  
 
192.1
 
 
 
468.0
 
 
 
2.0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Represents net shares issued from treasury pursuant to the Company’s stock-based compensation program as discussed in Note 17. 


(2)
 
In June 2009, the Company issued 36,858,975 shares of Common Stock in a public offering at a price of $39.00 per share for net proceeds of $1.391 billion.



(3)
 
In November 2010, the Company issued 18,348,624 shares of Common Stock in a public offering at a price of $54.50 per share for net proceeds of $970 million.
   Common Stock and Class B Stock
   On the date of demutualization,
Prudential Financial completed an initial public offering of its Common Stock at an initial public offering price of $27.50 per share. The shares of Common Stock issued were in addition to shares of Common Stock the Company distributed to
policyholders as part of the demutualization. The Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PRU.” Also on the date of demutualization, Prudential Financial completed the sale, through a private placement, of
2.0 million shares of Class B Stock at a price of $87.50 per share. The Class B Stock is a separate class of common stock which is not publicly traded. The Common Stock reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Class
B Stock reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. 
  343



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Holders of Common Stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the
Financial Services Businesses and holders of the Class B Stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the Closed Block Business and holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment
in the Company.    In the event of a liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company, holders of Common Stock and holders of Class B Stock would be entitled to receive a proportionate share of the net assets of the Company that remain after paying all liabilities and the liquidation
preferences of any preferred stock.    Common Stock Held in
Treasury    Common Stock held in treasury
is accounted for at average cost. Gains resulting from the reissuance of “Common Stock held in treasury” are credited to “Additional paid-in capital.” Losses resulting from the reissuance of “Common Stock held in
treasury” are charged first to “Additional paid-in capital” to the extent the Company has previously recorded gains on treasury share transactions, then to “Retained earnings.” 
  In June 2011, Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors
authorized the Company to repurchase at management’s discretion up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock through June 2012. The timing and amount of any share repurchases will be determined by management based on market conditions and
other considerations, and the repurchases may be effected in the open market, through derivative, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Exchange Act. Numerous
factors could affect the timing and amount of any repurchases under the share repurchase program, including increased capital needs of the Company’s businesses due to opportunities for growth and acquisitions, as well as adverse market
conditions. During 2011, the Company acquired 19.8 million shares of its Common Stock under this authorization at a total cost of $999.5 million.   
The timing and amount of repurchases under these authorizations were determined by management based upon market conditions and other
considerations, with repurchases effected in the open market, through derivative, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through prearranged trading plans complying with Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Exchange Act. 
  Stock Conversion Rights of the Class B Stock 
  Prudential Financial may, at its option, at any time,
exchange all outstanding shares of Class B Stock into such number of shares of Common Stock as have an aggregate average market value equal to 120% of the appraised fair market value of the outstanding shares of Class B Stock. 
  Holders of Class B Stock will be permitted to convert their
shares of Class B Stock into such number of shares of Common Stock as have an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the appraised fair market value of the outstanding shares of Class B Stock (1) in the holder’s sole discretion,
in the year 2016 or at any time thereafter, and (2) at any time in the event that (a) the Class B Stock will no longer be treated as equity of Prudential Financial for federal income tax purposes or (b) the New Jersey Department of
Banking and Insurance amends, alters, changes or modifies the regulation of the Closed Block, the Closed Block Business, the Class B Stock or the IHC debt in a manner that materially adversely affects the “CB Distributable Cash Flow”;
provided, however, that in no event may a holder of Class B Stock convert shares of Class B Stock to the extent such holder immediately upon such conversion, together with its affiliates, would be the beneficial owner (as defined under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of in excess of 9.9% of the total outstanding voting power of Prudential Financial’s voting securities. In the event a holder of shares of Class B Stock requests to convert shares pursuant to clause
(2)(a) in the preceding sentence, Prudential Financial may elect, instead of effecting such conversion, to increase the Target Dividend Amount to $12.6875 per share per annum retroactively from the time of issuance of the Class B Stock.

  344



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Dividends 
  The principal sources of funds available to Prudential
Financial, the parent holding company, are dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries, and cash and short-term investments. The primary uses of funds at Prudential Financial include servicing its debt and the payment of
declared shareholder dividends, operating expenses and capital contributions and obligations to its subsidiaries.   
The regulated insurance and various other subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on their payment of dividends and other
transfers of funds to Prudential Financial. With respect to Prudential Insurance, New Jersey insurance law provides that, except in the case of extraordinary dividends (as described below), all dividends or other distributions paid by Prudential
Insurance may be paid only from unassigned surplus, as determined pursuant to statutory accounting principles, less unrealized investment gains and losses and revaluation of assets as of the prior calendar year-end. As of December 31, 2011,
Prudential Insurance’s unassigned surplus was $5,070 million, and it recorded applicable adjustments for cumulative unrealized investment gains of $2,184 million. Prudential Insurance must give prior notification to the New Jersey Department of
Banking and Insurance (the “Department”) of its intent to pay any dividend or distribution. Also, if any dividend, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10%
of Prudential Insurance’s statutory surplus as of the preceding December 31 ($8,160 million as of December 31, 2011) or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations excluding realized investment gains and losses for the twelve
month period ending on the preceding December 31, ($584 million for the year ended December 31, 2011), the dividend is considered to be an “extraordinary dividend” and the prior approval of the Department is required for the
payment of the dividend.    The laws regulating
dividends of Prudential Financial’s other insurance subsidiaries domiciled in other states and foreign jurisdictions are similar, but not identical, to New Jersey’s. Further, as a result of Gibraltar Life’s reorganization in 2001, in
addition to regulatory restrictions, certain other restrictions precluded Gibraltar Life from paying common stock dividends to Prudential Financial. However, the Company anticipates that following the merger of Gibraltar, Star and Edison, the merged
entity will be able to pay common stock dividends to Prudential Financial, subject to legal and regulatory restrictions.   
The declaration and payment of dividends on the Common Stock depends primarily upon the financial condition, results of operations, cash
requirements, future prospects and other factors relating to the Financial Services Businesses. Furthermore, dividends on the Common Stock are limited to both the amount that is legally available for payment under New Jersey corporate law if the
Financial Services Businesses were treated as a separate corporation thereunder and the amount that is legally available for payment under New Jersey corporate law on a consolidated basis after taking into account dividends on the Class B Stock.
   The declaration and payment of dividends on the
Class B Stock depends upon the financial performance of the Closed Block Business and, as the Closed Block matures, the holders of the Class B Stock will receive the surplus of the Closed Block Business no longer required to support the Closed Block
for regulatory purposes. Dividends on the Class B Stock are payable in an aggregate amount per year at least equal to the lesser of (1) a Target Dividend Amount of $19.25 million or (2) the CB Distributable Cash Flow for such year, which
is a measure of the net cash flows of the Closed Block Business. Notwithstanding this formula, as with any common stock, Prudential Financial retains the flexibility to suspend dividends on the Class B Stock; however, if CB Distributable Cash Flow
exists and Prudential Financial chooses not to pay dividends on the Class B Stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the CB Distributable Cash Flow or the Target Dividend Amount for any period, then cash dividends cannot be paid
on the Common Stock with respect to such period.    Preferred
Stock    Prudential Financial adopted a
shareholder rights plan (the “rights plan”) under which each outstanding share of Common Stock was coupled with a shareholder right. The rights plan was not applicable to any Class B Stock. Each right initially entitled the holder to
purchase one one-thousandth of a share of a series of Prudential 
  345



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

Financial preferred stock upon payment of the exercise price. At the time of the demutualization, the Board of Directors of Prudential Financial determined that the initial exercise price per
right was $110, subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in the rights plan. There was no preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The rights plan expired on December 18, 2011. 
  Comprehensive Income 
  The components of comprehensive income (loss) for the years
ended December 31, are as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
3,738
  
 
$
3,206
  
 
$
3,090
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes:
  



 



 




 Change in foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
233
  
 
 
486
  
 
 
292
  

 Change in net unrealized investments gains (losses)(1)
  
 
2,490
  
 
 
2,634
  
 
 
7,905
  

 Change in pension and postretirement unrecognized net periodic benefit (cost)
  
 
(182
) 
 
 
316
  
 
 
(645
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax expense (benefit) of $1,312, $1,597, $3,707
  
 
2,541
  
 
 
3,436
  
 
 
7,552
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
6,279
  
 
 
6,642
  
 
 
10,642
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
(28
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
41
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.
  
$
6,251
  
 
$
6,616
  
 
$
10,683
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes cash flow hedges. See Note 21 for information on cash flow hedges. See Note 4 for additional information regarding unrealized investment gains (losses),
including the split between amounts related to fixed maturity securities on which an other-than-temporary impairment loss has been recognized, and all other unrealized investment gains (losses). 
  The balance of and changes in each component of
“Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.” for the years ended December 31, are as follows (net of taxes):   




















 
  
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)Attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.
 

 
  
Foreign CurrencyTranslationAdjustment
 
  
Net UnrealizedInvestment Gains(Losses)(1)
 
 
Pension andPostretirementUnrecognized NetPeriodic Benefit(Cost)
 
 
Total AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
  
$
375
  
  
$
(6,735
) 
 
$
(983
) 
 
$
(7,343
) 

 Change in component during year
  
 
299
  
  
 
7,905
  
 
 
(645
) 
 
 
7,559
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Impact of adoption of guidance for other-than- temporary impairments of debt securities(2)
  
 
0
  
  
 
(659
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(659
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
  
 
674
  
  
 
511
  
 
 
(1,628
) 
 
 
(443
) 

 Change in component during year
  
 
471
  
  
 
2,634
  
 
 
316
  
 
 
3,421
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
  
 
1,145
  
  
 
3,145
  
 
 
(1,312
) 
 
 
2,978
  

 Change in component during year
  
 
277
  
  
 
2,490
  
 
 
(182
) 
 
 
2,585
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
  
$
1,422
  
  
$
5,635
  
 
$
(1,494
) 
 
$
5,563
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes cash flow hedges. See Note 21 for information on cash flow hedges. See Note 4 for additional information regarding unrealized investment gains (losses),
including the split between amounts related to fixed maturity securities on which an other-than-temporary impairment loss has been recognized, and all other unrealized investment gains (losses). 


(2)
 
See Note 2 for additional information on the adoption of guidance for other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities. 
  346



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Statutory Net Income and Surplus    Prudential Financial’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to prepare statutory financial statements
in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the insurance department of the state of domicile. Statutory accounting practices primarily differ from U.S. GAAP by charging policy acquisition costs to expense as
incurred, establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different actuarial assumptions as well as valuing investments and certain assets and accounting for deferred taxes on a different basis. Statutory net income (loss) of Prudential
Insurance amounted to $826 million, $1,623 million and $1,101 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Statutory capital and surplus of Prudential Insurance amounted to $8,160 million and $8,364 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
All of the Company’s international insurance operations also prepare financial statements in accordance with local regulatory
requirements. The regulatory authorities in these international jurisdictions generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements. All of the international insurance operations have surplus levels that exceed the local minimum
requirements.   
16.    EARNINGS PER SHARE 
  The Company has outstanding two separate
classes of common stock. The Common Stock reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Class B Stock reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. Accordingly, earnings per share is calculated separately for each of
these two classes of common stock.    Net income for
the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the respective businesses based on the Company’s methodology for the
allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in
force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of the businesses.
   The direct equity adjustments modify the earnings
available to each of the classes of common stock for earnings per share purposes. 
  347



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Common Stock 
  A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the
basic and diluted per share computations for the years ended December 31, is as follows:   








































 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
Income
 
 
WeightedAverageShares
 
 
PerShareAmount
 
 
Income
 
 
WeightedAverageShares
 
 
PerShareAmount
 
 
Income
 
 
WeightedAverageShares
 
 
PerShareAmount
 

 
 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 

 Basic earnings per share
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses
 
$
3,568
  
 



 



 
$
2,693
  
 



 



 
$
3,396
  
 



 




 Direct equity adjustment
 
 
24
  
 



 



 
 
36
  
 



 



 
 
43
  
 



 




 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
72
  
 



 



 
 
11
  
 



 



 
 
(34
) 
 



 




 Less: Earnings allocated to participating unvested share-based payment awards
 
 
47
  
 



 



 
 
35
  
 



 



 
 
39
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Income from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses available to holders of Common Stock after
direct equity adjustment
 
$
3,473
  
 
 
480.2
  
 
$
7.23
  
 
$
2,683
  
 
 
466.8
  
 
$
5.75
  
 
$
3,434
  
 
 
444.6
  
 
$
7.72
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of dilutive securities and compensation programs
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Add: Earnings allocated to participating unvested share-based payment awards—Basic
 
$
47
  
 



 



 
$
35
  
 



 



 
$
39
  
 



 




 Less: Earnings allocated to participating unvested share-based payment awards—Diluted
 
 
46
  
 



 



 
 
35
  
 



 



 
 
39
  
 



 




 Stock options
 



 
 
2.9
  
 



 



 
 
3.0
  
 



 



 
 
1.6
  
 




 Deferred and long-term compensation programs
 



 
 
0.5
  
 



 



 
 
0.5
  
 



 



 
 
0.6
  
 




 Exchangeable Surplus Notes
 
 
17
  
 
 
5.1
  
 



 
 
17
  
 
 
5.1
  
 



 
 
5
  
 
 
1.4
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Diluted earnings per share
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses available to holders of Common Stock after
direct equity adjustment
 
$
3,491
  
 
 
488.7
  
 
$
7.14
  
 
$
2,700
  
 
 
475.4
  
 
$
5.68
  
 
$
3,439
  
 
 
448.2
  
 
$
7.67
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Unvested share-based payment
awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are participating securities and included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Under this method, earnings of the Financial Services Businesses attributable
to Prudential Financial, Inc. are allocated between Common Stock and the participating awards, as if the awards were a second class of stock. Undistributed earnings allocated to participating unvested share-based payment awards for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was based on 6.5 million, 6.1 million and 5.0 million of such awards, respectively, weighted for the period they were outstanding. The computation of earnings per share of Common Stock excludes
the dilutive impact of participating unvested share-based awards based on the application of the two-class method.   
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 10.8 million options, 10.5 million options and 13.2 million
options, respectively, weighted for the portion of the period they were outstanding, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options, based on application of the treasury stock method, were antidilutive. These
antidilutive options had a weighted average exercise price of $73.01 per share, $71.67 per share and $64.80 per share for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  348



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
In September 2009, the Company issued $500 million of surplus notes with an interest
rate of 5.36% per annum which are exchangeable at the option of the note holders for shares of Common Stock. The exchange rate used in the diluted earnings per share calculation for the surplus notes is 10.1235 shares of Common Stock per each
$1,000 principal amount of surplus notes. In calculating diluted earnings per share under the if-converted method, the potential shares that would be issued assuming a hypothetical exchange, weighted for the period the notes are outstanding, is
added to the denominator, and interest expense, net of tax, is added to the numerator, if the overall effect is dilutive. See Note 14 for additional information regarding the exchangeable surplus notes. 
  Class B Stock 
  Income (loss) from continuing operations per share of Class
B Stock for the years ended December 31, are presented below. There are no potentially dilutive shares associated with the Class B Stock.   








































 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
Income
 
 
WeightedAverageShares
 
 
PerShareAmount
 
 
Income
 
 
WeightedAverageShares
 
 
PerShareAmount
 
 
Income
 
 
WeightedAverageShares
 
 
PerShareAmount
 

 
 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 

 Basic earnings per share
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Closed Block Business
 
$
135
  
 



 



 
$
480
  
 



 



 
$
(287
) 
 



 




 Less: Direct equity adjustment
 
 
24
  
 



 



 
 
36
  
 



 



 
 
43
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Closed Block Business available to holders of Class B Stock after
direct equity adjustment
 
$
111
  
 
 
2.0
  
 
$
55.50
  
 
$
444
  
 
 
2.0
  
 
$
222.00
  
 
$
(330
) 
 
 
2.0
  
 
$
(165.00
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
17.    SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 
  Omnibus Incentive Plan 
  In March 2003, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted
the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (as subsequently amended and restated, the “Omnibus Plan”). Upon adoption of the Omnibus Plan, the Prudential Financial, Inc. Stock Option Plan previously adopted by the Company on
January 9, 2001 (the “Option Plan”) was merged into the Omnibus Plan. The nature of stock based awards provided under the Omnibus Plan are stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock shares, restricted stock units,
stock settled performance shares, and cash settled performance units. Dividend equivalents are generally provided on restricted stock shares and restricted stock units outstanding as of the record date. Dividend equivalents are generally accrued on
target performance shares and units outstanding as of the record date. These dividend equivalents are paid only on the shares and units released up to a maximum of the target number of shares and units awarded. Generally, the requisite service
period is the vesting period.    As of
December 31, 2011, 22,119,775 authorized shares remain available for grant under the Omnibus Plan including previously authorized but unissued shares under the Option Plan. 
  Compensation Costs 
  Compensation cost for employee stock options is based on the
fair values estimated on the grant date, while compensation cost for non-employee stock options is re-estimated at each period-end through the vesting date, using the approach and assumptions described below. Compensation cost for restricted stock
units and performance shares and units granted to employees is measured by the share price of the underlying Common Stock at the date of grant. Compensation cost for restricted stock shares and restricted stock units granted to non-employees is
measured by the share price as of the balance sheet date for unvested shares and the share price at the vesting date for vested shares. 
  349



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The fair value of each stock option award is estimated using a binomial option-pricing
model on the date of grant for stock options issued to employees and the balance sheet date or vesting date for stock options issued to non-employees. The weighted average grant date assumptions used in the binomial option valuation model are as
follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Expected volatility
  
 
39.86
% 
 
 
44.41
% 
 
 
48.96
% 

 Expected dividend yield
  
 
2.00
% 
 
 
1.10
% 
 
 
1.10
% 

 Expected term
  
 
5.28 years
  
 
 
5.10 years
  
 
 
4.85 years
  

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.48
% 
 
 
2.34
% 
 
 
1.76
% 
   Expected volatilities are
based on historical volatility of the Company’s Common Stock and implied volatilities from traded options on the Company’s Common Stock. The Company uses historical data and expectations of future exercise patterns to estimate option
exercises and employee terminations within the valuation model. The expected term of options granted represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods within the expected term of the
option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.    The following chart summarizes the compensation cost recognized and the related income tax benefit for stock options, restricted stock shares, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance
units for the years ended December 31:   




























 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
Total CompensationCost Recognized
 
 
IncomeTaxBenefit
 
 
Total CompensationCost Recognized
 
 
IncomeTaxBenefit
 
 
Total CompensationCost Recognized
 
 
IncomeTaxBenefit
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Employee stock options
 
$
44
 
 
$
16
 
 
$
39
 
 
$
14
 
 
$
40
 
 
$
14
 

 Non-employee stock options
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 

 Employee restricted stock shares, and restricted stock units
 
 
83
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
80
 
 
 
29
 
 
 
83
 
 
 
30
 

 Employee performance shares and units.
 
 
14
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
29
 
 
 
10
 

 Non-employee restricted stock shares and restricted stock units
 
 
1
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
142
 
 
$
51
 
 
$
135
 
 
$
49
 
 
$
153
 
 
$
55
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Compensation costs for all
stock based compensation plans capitalized in deferred acquisition costs for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were de minimis.   
Stock Options   
Each stock option granted has an exercise price no less than the fair market value of the Company’s Common Stock on the date of grant
and has a maximum term of 10 years. Generally, one third of the option grant vests in each of the first three years. Participants are employees and non-employees (i.e., statutory agents who perform services for the Company and participating
subsidiaries). 
  350



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
A summary of the status of the Company’s employee and non-employee stock option
grants is as follows:   




















 
 
Employee Stock Options
 
 
Non-employee Stock Options
 

 
 
Shares
 
 
Weighted AverageExercise Price
 
 
Shares
 
 
Weighted AverageExercise Price
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2008
 
 
16,879,169
  
 
$
57.87
  
 
 
454,859
  
 
$
52.76
  

 Granted
 
 
3,370,226
  
 
 
25.48
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Exercised
 
 
(636,869
) 
 
 
31.70
  
 
 
(11,580
) 
 
 
27.77
  

 Forfeited
 
 
(77,980
) 
 
 
59.81
  
 
 
(5,368
) 
 
 
76.30
  

 Expired
 
 
(241,382
) 
 
 
48.60
  
 
 
(10,019
) 
 
 
45.36
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding at December 31, 2009
 
 
19,293,164
  
 
 
53.18
  
 
 
427,892
  
 
 
53.31
  

 Granted
 
 
1,991,469
  
 
 
48.55
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Exercised
 
 
(1,435,898
) 
 
 
33.24
  
 
 
(29,532
) 
 
 
30.27
  

 Forfeited
 
 
(96,872
) 
 
 
41.39
  
 
 
(1,404
) 
 
 
75.36
  

 Expired
 
 
(214,573
) 
 
 
60.94
  
 
 
(7,920
) 
 
 
40.06
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
 
 
19,537,290
  
 
 
54.15
  
 
 
389,036
  
 
 
55.25
  

 Granted
 
 
2,252,768
  
 
 
63.91
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Exercised
 
 
(1,999,391
) 
 
 
33.65
  
 
 
(100,635
) 
 
 
30.38
  

 Forfeited
 
 
(98,286
) 
 
 
48.86
  
 
 
(969
) 
 
 
71.07
  

 Expired
 
 
(357,059
) 
 
 
65.81
  
 
 
(16,444
) 
 
 
54.13
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
19,335,322
  
 
$
57.22
  
 
 
270,988
  
 
$
64.50
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
 
 
19,130,778
  
 
$
57.18
  
 
 
270,988
  
 
$
64.50
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
 
 
14,599,465
  
 
$
59.15
  
 
 
270,988
  
 
$
64.50
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



   The weighted average grant
date fair value of employee stock options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $20.21, $18.00, and $9.83, respectively.   
The total intrinsic value (i.e., market price of the stock less the option exercise price) of employee stock options exercised during the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $49 million, $35 million, and $11 million, respectively.   
The total intrinsic value of non-employee options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $3 million,
$1 million, and $0 million, respectively.    The
weighted average remaining contractual term and the aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2011 is as follows:   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Employee Stock Options
 
  
Non-employee Stock Options
 

 
  
Weighted AverageRemainingContractual Term
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic Value
 
  
Weighted AverageRemainingContractual Term
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic Value
 

 
  
(in years)
 
  
(in millions)
 
  
(in years)
 
  
(in millions)
 

 Outstanding
  
 
5.01
  
  
$
109
  
  
 
3.92
  
  
$
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Vested and expected to vest
  
 
4.96
  
  
$
109
  
  
 
3.92
  
  
$
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable
  
 
4.03
  
  
$
80
  
  
 
3.92
  
  
$
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Restricted Stock Shares,
Restricted Stock Units, Performance Share Awards, and Performance Unit Awards    A restricted stock share represents a grant of Common Stock to employee and non-employee participants that is subject to certain transfer restrictions and forfeiture provisions for a specified period of
time. A restricted 
  351



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

stock unit is an unfunded, unsecured right to receive a share of Common Stock at the end of a specified period of time, which is also subject to forfeiture and transfer restrictions. Generally,
the restrictions on restricted stock shares and restricted stock units will lapse on the third anniversary of the date of grant. Restricted stock shares subject to the transfer restrictions and forfeiture provisions are considered nonvested shares
and are not reflected as outstanding shares until the restrictions expire. Performance shares and performance units are awards denominated in Common Stock. The number of units is determined over the performance period, and may be adjusted based on
the satisfaction of certain performance goals. Performance share awards are payable in Common Stock. Performance unit awards are payable in cash.   
A summary of the Company’s employee restricted stock shares, restricted stock units and performance shares and performance unit
awards is as follows:   




























 
 
RestrictedStockShares
 
 
WeightedAverageGrantDate FairValue
 
 
RestrictedStockUnits
 
 
WeightedAverageGrantDate FairValue
 
 
PerformanceShare andPerformanceUnit Awards(1)
 
 
WeightedAverageGrantDate FairValue
 

 Restricted at December 31, 2008
 
 
4,690
  
 
$
44.33
  
 
 
2,864,742
  
 
$
76.87
  
 
 
862,519
  
 
$
78.28
  

 Granted
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,655,941
  
 
 
25.61
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Forfeited
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(118,236
) 
 
 
46.20
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Performance adjustment(2)
 



 



 



 



 
 
(55,953
) 
 
 
76.15
  

 Released
 
 
(4,690
) 
 
 
44.33
  
 
 
(1,208,434
) 
 
 
76.00
  
 
 
(234,814
) 
 
 
76.15
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Restricted at December 31, 2009
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,194,013
  
 
 
41.69
  
 
 
571,752
  
 
 
79.36
  

 Granted
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,801,337
  
 
 
48.56
  
 
 
316,988
  
 
 
58.71
  

 Forfeited
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(128,870
) 
 
 
37.10
  
 
 
(3,062
) 
 
 
58.71
  

 Performance adjustment(2)
 



 



 



 



 
 
62,571
  
 
 
91.73
  

 Released
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(799,202
) 
 
 
85.70
  
 
 
(325,051
) 
 
 
91.73
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Restricted at December 31, 2010
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
6,067,278
  
 
 
38.03
  
 
 
623,198
  
 
 
63.74
  

 Granted(3)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,599,673
  
 
 
63.39
  
 
 
301,204
  
 
 
50.12
  

 Forfeited
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(334,754
) 
 
 
49.40
  
 
 
(18,118
) 
 
 
60.87
  

 Performance adjustment(2)
 



 



 



 



 
 
(219,808
) 
 
 
68.84
  

 Released
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,090,419
) 
 
 
58.35
  
 
 
(93,100
) 
 
 
68.04
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Restricted at December 31, 2011(3)
 
 
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
 
6,241,778
  
 
$
40.37
  
 
 
593,376
  
 
$
50.12
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



  


(1)
 
Performance share and performance unit awards reflect the target awarded, reduced for cancellations and releases to date. The actual number of units to be awarded at
the end of each performance period will range between 0% and 150% of the target for awards granted in 2010 and 2011, based upon a measure of the reported performance for the Company’s Financial Services Businesses relative to stated goals.
There were no performance shares granted in 2009. 


(2)
 
Represents the change in shares issued based upon the attainment of performance goals for the Company’s Financial Services Businesses. 


(3)
 
For performance share and performance unit awards issued after 1/1/2010, the grant date is the same as the date the grant vests. The features of the grant are such that
a mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions of the award between the employee and employer have not been reached until the grant is vested. Consequently, the weighted average grant date fair value as of 12/31/2011 is the value as of the
Balance Sheet date.    The fair market
value of employee restricted stock, restricted units and performance share and unit awards released for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $75 million, $56 million and $34 million, respectively. 
  352



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
A summary of the Company’s non-employee restricted stock units is as follows:
  












 
  
RestrictedStockUnits
 
  
WeightedAverageBalance SheetDate FairValue
 

 Restricted at December 31, 2008
  
 
95,338
 
  
$
30.26
 

 Granted
  
 
33,902
 
  




 Forfeited
  
 
(4,312
) 
  




 Released
  
 
(77,768
) 
  





  
  
  
 
  




 Restricted at December 31, 2009
  
 
47,160
 
  
 
49.76
 

 Granted
  
 
30,711
 
  




 Forfeited
  
 
(2,351
) 
  




 Released
  
 
(6,729
) 
  





  
  
  
 
  




 Restricted at December 31, 2010
  
 
68,791
 
  
 
58.71
 

 Granted
  
 
20,020
 
  




 Forfeited
  
 
(5,568
) 
  




 Released
  
 
(6,859
) 
  





  
  
  
 
  




 Restricted at December 31, 2011
  
 
76,384
 
  
$
50.12
 


  
  
  
 
  



   The fair market value of
non-employee share awards released for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0 million, $0 million and $2 million, respectively.   
The number of employee and non-employee restricted stock shares, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units expected
to vest at December 31, 2011 is 6,424,898.   
Unrecognized Compensation Cost   
Unrecognized compensation cost for employee stock options as of December 31, 2011 was $21 million with a weighted average recognition
period of 1.64 years. Unrecognized compensation cost for employee restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units as of December 31, 2011 was $73 million with a weighted average recognition period of
1.78 years.    Unrecognized compensation cost for
non-employee stock options as of December 31, 2011 is zero as the options are fully expensed. Unrecognized compensation cost for non-employee restricted stock units as of December 31, 2011 was $1 million with a weighted average recognition
period of 1.57 years.    Tax Benefits Realized
   The tax benefit realized for exercises
of employee and non-employee stock options during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $18 million, $14 million and $2 million, respectively. 
  The tax benefit realized upon vesting of restricted stock
shares, restricted stock units, and performance shares for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $26 million, $18 million and $12 million, respectively. 
  Stock Purchase Plan 
  At the Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of the Company
held on June 7, 2005, the shareholders approved the Prudential Financial, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The plan is a qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan under Section 423 of the Code. Under the plan, eligible participants may
purchase shares based upon 
  353



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

quarterly offering periods at an amount equal to the lesser of (1) 85% of the closing market price of the Common Stock on the first day of the quarterly offering period, or (2) 85% of
the closing market price of the Common Stock on the last day of the quarterly offering period. Participant contributions will be limited to the lower of 10% of eligible earnings or $25,000. Participants are employees and non-employees (i.e.,
statutory agents who perform services for the Company and participating subsidiaries).    Compensation cost for employees is recognized for each three-month period and is based on the grant date fair value of the discount received under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. This fair value is
estimated using the 15% discount off of the grant date share price, plus the value of three month call and put options on shares at the grant date share price, less the value of forgone interest. Compensation costs recognized for employees under the
Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $12 million, $12 million and $17 million, respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value for employee shares recognized in
compensation cost for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $12.87, $13.06, and $10.05, respectively.   
Compensation cost for non-employees is recognized for each three-month period and is based on the fair value of shares at the purchase
date less the price the participant pays for the shares. Compensation costs recognized for non-employees under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1 million, $1 million and
$2 million, respectively. The weighted average fair value for non-employee shares recognized in compensation cost for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $8.44, $10.88 and $13.92 respectively. 
  Tax benefits are only recorded in the event of a
disqualifying disposition. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, tax benefits realized upon disqualifying dispositions for both employees and non-employees were de minimis. 
  During the year ended December 31, 2011, 1,117,395
shares were purchased under the plan, including those shares purchased in January 2011 related to the October 1 to December 31, 2010 offering period. During the year ended December 31, 2010, 1,092,676 shares were purchased under the
plan, including those shares purchased in January 2010 related to the October 1 to December 31, 2009 offering period. During the year ended December 31, 2009, 2,103,950 shares were purchased under the plan, including those shares
purchased in January 2009 related to October 1 to December 31 2008 offering period. As of December 31, 2011, 20,803,744 authorized shares remain available for future issuance under the plan. 
  Settlement of Awards 
  The Company’s policy is to issue shares from Common
Stock held in treasury upon exercise of employee and non-employee stock options, the release of restricted stock shares, restricted stock units, and performance shares, as well as for purchases under the stock purchase plan. Performance units will
be settled in cash in the future.    As of
December 31, 2011, the Company has not settled any equity instruments granted under share-based payment arrangements in cash.   
18.    EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
  Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
   The Company has funded and non-funded
non-contributory defined benefit pension plans, which cover substantially all of its employees. For some employees, benefits are based on final average earnings and length of service, while benefits for other employees are based on an account
balance that takes into consideration age, service and earnings during their career. 
  354



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for its retired
employees, their beneficiaries and covered dependents (“other postretirement benefits”). The health care plan is contributory; the life insurance plan is non-contributory. Substantially all of the Company’s U.S. employees may become
eligible to receive other postretirement benefits if they retire after age 55 with at least 10 years of service or under certain circumstances after age 50 with at least 20 years of continuous service. The Company has elected to amortize its
transition obligation for other postretirement benefits over 20 years.    Prepaid benefits costs and accrued benefit liabilities are included in “Other assets” and “Other liabilities,” respectively, in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. The status of these plans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, is summarized below:   




















 
  
Pension Benefits
 
  
OtherPostretirementBenefits

 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Change in benefit obligation
  



  



  



  




 Benefit obligation at the beginning of period
  
$
(9,198
) 
  
$
(8,855
) 
  
$
(2,129
) 
  
$
(2,131
) 

 Acquisition/Divestiture
  
 
(800
) 
  
 
20
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
0
  

 Service cost
  
 
(218
) 
  
 
(178
) 
  
 
(11
) 
  
 
(11
) 

 Interest cost
  
 
(486
) 
  
 
(469
) 
  
 
(110
) 
  
 
(113
) 

 Acquisition/Divestiture
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
(26
) 
  
 
(23
) 

 Medicare Part D subsidy receipts
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
(11
) 
  
 
(20
) 

 Early retirement reinsurance program receipts.
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
(14
) 
  
 
0
  

 Amendments
  
 
72
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Actuarial gains/(losses), net
  
 
(1,047
) 
  
 
(225
) 
  
 
(184
) 
  
 
(42
) 

 Settlements
  
 
30
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Curtailments
  
 
22
  
  
 
16
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Special termination benefits
  
 
(4
) 
  
 
(2
) 
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
612
  
  
 
547
  
  
 
210
  
  
 
214
  

 Foreign currency changes and other
  
 
(96
) 
  
 
(52
) 
  
 
(5
) 
  
 
(3
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of period
  
$
(11,113
) 
  
$
(9,198
) 
  
$
(2,277
) 
  
$
(2,129
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Change in plan assets
  



  



  



  




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period
  
$
10,533
  
  
$
9,591
  
  
$
1,495
  
  
$
1,519
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
1,616
  
  
 
1,368
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
152
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
255
  
  
 
128
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
15
  

 Plan participants’ contributions
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
23
  

 Early retirement reinsurance program receipts.
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
0
  

 Disbursement for settlements
  
 
(30
) 
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(612
) 
  
 
(547
) 
  
 
(210
) 
  
 
(214
) 

 Acquisition/Divestiture
  
 
53
  
  
 
(3
) 
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Foreign currency changes and other
  
 
(3
) 
  
 
(4
) 
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of period
  
$
11,812
  
  
$
10,533
  
  
$
1,344
  
  
$
1,495
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  



  



  



  




 Funded status at end of period
  
$
699
  
  
$
1,335
  
  
$
(933
) 
  
$
(634
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in the Statements of Financial Position
  



  



  



  




 Prepaid benefit cost
  
$
3,389
  
  
$
3,219
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  

 Accrued benefit liability
  
 
(2,690
) 
  
 
(1,884
) 
  
 
(933
) 
  
 
(634
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net amount recognized
  
$
699
  
  
$
1,335
  
  
$
(933
) 
  
$
(634
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Items recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” not yet recognized as a component of net periodic
(benefit) cost:
  



  



  



  




 Transition obligation
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
1
  
  
$
1
  

 Prior service cost
  
 
(9
) 
  
 
87
  
  
 
(42
) 
  
 
(54
) 

 Net actuarial loss
  
 
1,549
  
  
 
1,445
  
  
 
861
  
  
 
622
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net amount not recognized
  
$
1,540
  
  
$
1,532
  
  
$
820
  
  
$
569
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
$
(10,616
) 
  
$
(8,769
) 
  
$
(2,277
) 
  
$
(2,129
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  355



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
In addition to the plan assets above, the Company in 2007 established an irrevocable
trust, commonly referred to as a “rabbi trust,” for the purpose of holding assets of the Company to be used to satisfy its obligations with respect to certain non-qualified retirement plans ($834 million and $860 million benefit obligation
at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively). Assets held in the rabbi trust are available to the general creditors of the Company in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy. The Company may from time to time in its discretion make contributions
to the trust to fund accrued benefits payable to participants in one or more of the plans, and, in the case of a change in control of the Company, as defined in the trust agreement, the Company will be required to make contributions to the trust to
fund the accrued benefits, vested and unvested, payable on a pretax basis to participants in the plans. The Company made a discretionary payment of $95 million to the trust in 2010. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the assets in the trust had
a carrying value of $404 million and $390 million, respectively.    The Company also maintains a separate rabbi trust established at the time of the combination of its retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia for the purpose of holding
assets of the Company to be used to satisfy its obligations with respect to certain non-qualified retirement plans ($78 million and $74 million benefit obligation at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively), as well as certain cash-based
deferred compensation arrangements. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the assets in the trust had a carrying value of $134 million and $124 million, respectively. 
  Pension benefits for foreign plans comprised 19% and 13% of
the ending benefit obligation for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Foreign pension plans comprised 3% and 2% of the ending fair value of plan assets for 2011 and 2010. There are no material foreign postretirement plans. 
  Information for pension plans with a projected benefit
obligation in excess of plan assets   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
2,785
 
  
$
2,096
 

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
95
 
  
 
212
 
   Information for pension
plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
$
2,582
 
  
$
1,951
 

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
77
 
  
 
196
 
   There were no purchases of
annuity contracts in 2011 and 2010 from Prudential Insurance. The approximate future annual benefit payment payable by Prudential Insurance for all annuity contracts was $18 million and $20 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.    There were pension plan amendments
in 2011. The benefit obligation for pension benefits decreased by $72 million for changes in benefit structures for certain Japanese plans. There were no pension plan amendments in 2010. There were no postretirement plan amendments in 2011 and 2010.

  356



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 
  Net periodic (benefit) cost included in “General and
administrative expenses” in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, includes the following components:   




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
  
Other PostretirementBenefits
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Service cost
  
$
218
  
  
$
178
  
  
$
163
  
  
$
11
  
  
$
11
  
  
$
10
  

 Interest cost
  
 
486
  
  
 
469
  
  
 
462
  
  
 
110
  
  
 
113
  
  
 
116
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(719
) 
  
 
(744
) 
  
 
(728
) 
  
 
(98
) 
  
 
(107
) 
  
 
(106
) 

 Amortization of transition obligation
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
23
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
(12
) 
  
 
(12
) 
  
 
(11
) 

 Amortization of actuarial (gain) loss, net
  
 
40
  
  
 
41
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
41
  

 Settlements
  
 
5
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Curtailments
  
 
(18
) 
  
 
(6
) 
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Special termination benefits
  
 
4
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net periodic (benefit) cost(1)
  
$
39
  
  
$
(36
) 
  
$
(44
) 
  
$
48
  
  
$
45
  
  
$
51
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Includes net periodic (benefit) cost for pensions of ($18) million, ($4) million and $5 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, that have been classified as
discontinued operations.    Certain
employees were provided special termination benefits under non-qualified plans in the form of unreduced early retirement benefits as a result of their involuntary termination. 
  Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
  The amounts recorded in “Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)” as of the end of the period, which have not yet been recognized as a component of net periodic (benefit) cost, and the related changes in these items during the period that are recognized in “Other
Comprehensive Income” are as follows:   




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Other PostretirementBenefits
 

 
  
TransitionObligation
 
  
PriorServiceCost
 
 
NetActuarial (Gain)Loss
 
 
TransitionObligation
 
 
PriorServiceCost
 
 
NetActuarial (Gain)Loss
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
  
$
0
  
  
$
109
  
 
$
1,881
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
(65
) 
 
$
663
  

 Amortization for the period
  
 
0
  
  
 
(24
) 
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
12
  
 
 
(39
) 

 Deferrals for the period
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(399
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3
) 

 Impact of foreign currency changes and other
  
 
0
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
  
 
0
  
  
 
87
  
 
 
1,445
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
(54
) 
 
 
622
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amortization for the period
  
 
0
  
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
(40
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
(36
) 

 Deferrals for the period
  
 
0
  
  
 
(72
) 
 
 
150
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
277
  

 Impact of foreign currency changes and other
  
 
0
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
  
$
0
  
  
$
(9
) 
 
$
1,549
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
(42
) 
 
$
861
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  357



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The amounts included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)”
expected to be recognized as components of net periodic (benefit) cost in 2012 are as follows:   












 
  
PensionBenefits
 
  
OtherPostretirementBenefits
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Amortization of transition obligation
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
13
 
  
 
(12
) 

 Amortization of actuarial (gain) loss, net
  
 
108
 
  
 
54
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
121
  
  
$
42
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The Company’s
assumptions related to the calculation of the domestic benefit obligation (end of period) and the determination of net periodic (benefit) cost (beginning of period) are presented in the table below: 
 




























 
  
Pension Benefits
 
 
Other Postretirement Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted-average assumptions
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Discount rate (beginning of period)
  
 
5.60
% 
 
 
5.75
% 
 
 
6.00
% 
 
 
5.35
% 
 
 
5.50
% 
 
 
6.00
% 

 Discount rate (end of period)
  
 
4.85
% 
 
 
5.60
% 
 
 
5.75
% 
 
 
4.60
% 
 
 
5.35
% 
 
 
5.50
% 

 Rate of increase in compensation levels (beginning of period)
  
 
4.50
% 
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  

 Rate of increase in compensation levels (end of period)
  
 
4.50
% 
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  

 Expected return on plan assets (beginning of period)
  
 
7.00
% 
 
 
7.50
% 
 
 
7.50
% 
 
 
7.00
% 
 
 
7.50
% 
 
 
8.00
% 

 Health care cost trend rates (beginning of period)
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
5.00-7.50
% 
 
 
5.00-7.50
% 
 
 
5.00-8.00
% 

 Health care cost trend rates (end of period)
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
5.00-7.50
% 
 
 
5.00-7.50
% 
 
 
5.00-7.50
% 

 For 2011, 2010 and 2009, the ultimate health care cost trend rate after gradual decrease until: 2017, 2015, 2014 (beginning of
period)
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 

 For 2011, 2010 and 2009, the ultimate health care cost trend rate after gradual decrease until: 2017, 2017, 2015, (end of
period)
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
5.00
% 
   The domestic discount rate
used to value the pension and postretirement obligations at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 is based upon the value of a portfolio of Aa investments whose cash flows would be available to pay the benefit obligation’s cash
flows when due. The portfolio is selected from a compilation of approximately 550 Aa-rated bonds across the full range of maturities. Since yields can vary widely at each maturity point, the Company generally avoids using the highest and lowest
yielding bonds at the maturity points, so as to avoid relying on bonds that might be mispriced or misrated. This refinement process generally results in having a distribution from the 10th to 90th percentile. The Aa portfolio is then selected and,
accordingly, its value is a measure of the benefit obligation at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. A single equivalent discount rate is calculated to equate the value of the Aa portfolio to the cash flows for the benefit obligation.
The result is rounded to the nearest 5 basis points and the benefit obligation is recalculated using the rounded discount rate.   
The pension and postretirement expected long-term rates of return on plan assets for 2011 were determined based upon an approach that
considered an expectation of the allocation of plan assets during the measurement period of 2011. Expected returns are estimated by asset class as noted in the discussion of investment policies and strategies below. Expected returns on asset classes
are developed using a building-block approach that is forward looking and are not strictly based upon historical returns. The building blocks for equity returns include inflation, real return, a term premium, an equity risk premium, capital
appreciation, effect of active management, expenses and the effect of rebalancing. The building blocks for fixed maturity returns include inflation, real return, a term premium, credit spread, capital appreciation, effect of active management,
expenses and the effect of rebalancing. 
  358



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The Company applied the same approach to the determination of the expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets in 2012. The expected long-term rate of return for 2012 is 6.75% and 7.00% for pension and postretirement, respectively.   
The Company, with respect to its domestic qualified pension benefits, uses market related value to determine the components of net
periodic (benefit) cost. Market related value is a measure of asset value that reflects the difference between actual and expected return on assets over a five-year period. 
  The assumptions for foreign pension plans are based on local
markets. There are no material foreign postretirement plans.    Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plan. A one-percentage point increase and decrease in assumed health care cost trend rates would
have the following effects:   








 
  
Other PostretirementBenefits
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 One percentage point increase
  




 Increase in total service and interest costs
  
$
10
 

 Increase in postretirement benefit obligation
  
 
199
 




 One percentage point decrease
  




 Decrease in total service and interest costs
  
$
7
 

 Decrease in postretirement benefit obligation
  
 
139
 
   Plan Assets 
  The investment goal of the domestic pension plan assets is
to generate an above benchmark return on a diversified portfolio of stocks, bonds and other investments, while meeting the cash requirements for a pension obligation that includes a traditional formula principally representing payments to annuitants
and a cash balance formula that allows lump sum payments and annuity payments. The pension plan risk management practices include guidelines for asset concentration, credit rating and liquidity. The pension plan does not invest in leveraged
derivatives. Derivatives such as futures contracts are used to reduce transaction costs and change asset concentration, while interest rate swaps are used to adjust duration. 
  The investment goal of the domestic postretirement plan
assets is to generate an above benchmark return on a diversified portfolio of stocks, bonds, and other investments, while meeting the cash requirements for the postretirement obligation that includes a medical benefit including prescription drugs, a
dental benefit, and a life benefit. The postretirement plans risk management practices include guidelines for asset concentration, credit rating, liquidity, and tax efficiency. The postretirement plan does not invest in leveraged derivatives.
Derivatives such as futures contracts are used to reduce transaction costs and change asset concentration, while interest rate swaps are used to adjust duration. 
  359



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The plan fiduciaries for the Company’s pension and postretirement plans have
developed guidelines for asset allocations reflecting a percentage of total assets by asset class, which are reviewed on an annual basis. Asset allocation targets as of December 31, 2011 are as follows: 
 




















 
  
Pension
 
 
Postretirement
 

 
  
Minimum
 
 
Maximum
 
 
Minimum
 
 
Maximum
 

 Asset Category
  



 



 



 




 U.S. Equities
  
 
3
% 
 
 
14
% 
 
 
39
% 
 
 
51
% 

 International Equities
  
 
2
% 
 
 
14
% 
 
 
1
% 
 
 
8
% 

 Fixed Maturities
  
 
58
% 
 
 
74
% 
 
 
0
% 
 
 
51
% 

 Short-term Investments
  
 
0
% 
 
 
13
% 
 
 
0
% 
 
 
55
% 

 Real Estate
  
 
1
% 
 
 
8
% 
 
 
0
% 
 
 
0
% 

 Other
  
 
0
% 
 
 
12
% 
 
 
0
% 
 
 
0
% 
   To implement the investment
strategy, plan assets are invested in funds that primarily invest in securities that correspond to one of the asset categories under the investment guidelines. However, at any point in time, some of the assets in a fund may be of a different nature
than the specified asset category.    Assets held
with Prudential Insurance are in either pooled separate accounts or single client separate accounts. Pooled separate accounts hold assets for multiple investors. Each investor owns a “unit of account.” Single client separate accounts hold
assets for only one investor, the domestic qualified pension plan and each security in the fund is treated as individually owned. Assets held with a bank are either in common/collective trusts or single client trusts. Common or collective trusts
hold assets for more than one investor. Each investor owns a “unit of account.” Single client trusts hold assets for only one investor, the domestic qualified pension plan and each security in the fund is treated as individually owned.
   There were no investments in Prudential Financial
Common Stock as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 for either the pension or postretirement plans. Pension plan assets of $8,262 million and $6,944 million are included in the Company’s separate account assets and liabilities
as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.    The authoritative guidance around fair value established a framework for measuring fair value. Fair value is disclosed using a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used
to measure fair value, as described in Note 20.   
The following describes the valuation methodologies used for pension and postretirement plans assets measured at fair value. 
  Insurance Company Pooled Separate Accounts, Common or
Collective Trusts, and United Kingdom Insurance Pooled Funds—Insurance company pooled separate accounts are invested via group annuity contracts issued by Prudential Insurance. Assets are represented by a “unit of account.” The
redemption value of those units is based on a per unit value whose value is the result of the accumulated values of underlying investments. The underlying investments are valued in accordance with the corresponding valuation method for the
investments held.    Equities—See Note
20 for a discussion of the valuation methodologies for equity securities.    U.S. Government Securities (both Federal and State & Other), Non–U.S. Government Securities, and Corporate Debt—See Note 20 for a discussion of the valuation methodologies
for fixed maturity securities.    Interest Rate
Swaps—See Note 20 for a discussion of the valuation methodologies for derivative instruments. 
  360



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Guaranteed Investment Contract—The value is based on contract cash flows and
available market rates for similar investments.   
Registered Investment Companies (Mutual Funds)—Securities are priced at the net asset value (“NAV”) of shares.
   Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Investment of
Securities Lending Collateral—This value is the contractual position relative to the investment of securities lending collateral.   
Real Estate—The values are determined through an independent appraisal process. The estimate of fair value is based on three
approaches; (1) current cost of reproducing the property less deterioration and functional/economic obsolescence; (2) discounting a series of income streams and reversion at a specific yield or by directly capitalizing a single year income
estimate by an appropriate factor; and (3) value indicated by recent sales of comparable properties in the market. Each approach requires the exercise of subjective judgment.     Short-term Investments—Securities are valued initially at cost and thereafter adjusted for
amortization of any discount or premium (i.e., amortized cost). Amortized Cost approximates fair value.    
Partnerships—The value of interests owned in partnerships is based on valuations of the underlying investments that include
private placements, structured debt, real estate, equities, fixed maturities, commodities and other investments.   
Structured Debt (Gateway Recovery Trust)—The value is based primarily on unobservable inputs including probability weighted
cash flows and reinvestment yield assumptions.   
Hedge Funds—The value of interests in hedge funds is based on the underlying investments that include equities, debt and other
investments.    Variable Life Insurance
Policies—These assets are held in group and individual variable life insurance policies issued by Prudential Insurance. Group policies are invested in Insurance Company Pooled Separate Accounts. Individual policies are invested in
Registered Investment Companies (Mutual Funds). The value of interest in these policies is the cash surrender value of the policies based on the underlying investments. 
  361



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Pension plan asset allocations in accordance with the investment guidelines are as
follows:   




















 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
 
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 U.S. Equities:
  



  



 



  




 Pooled separate accounts(1)
  
$
0
  
  
$
900
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
900
  

 Common/collective trusts(1)
  
 
0
  
  
 
54
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
54
  


  



  



 



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



  
 
954
  

 International Equities:
  



  



 



  




 Pooled separate accounts(2)
  
 
0
  
  
 
33
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
33
  

 Common/collective trusts(3)
  
 
0
  
  
 
186
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
186
  

 United Kingdom insurance pooled funds(4)
  
 
0
  
  
 
68
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
68
  


  



  



 



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



  
 
287
  







 Fixed Maturities:
  



  



 



  




 Pooled separate accounts(5)
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,006
  
 
 
20
  
  
 
1,026
  

 Common/collective trusts(6)
  
 
0
  
  
 
358
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
358
  

 U.S. government securities (federal):
  



  



 



  




 Mortgage-backed
  
 
0
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
4
  

 Other U.S. government securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
2,031
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
2,031
  

 U.S. government securities (state & other)
  
 
0
  
  
 
653
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
653
  

 Non-U.S. government securities
  
 
0
  
  
 
25
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
25
  

 United Kingdom insurance pooled funds(7)
  
 
0
  
  
 
176
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
176
  

 Corporate Debt:
  



  



 



  




 Corporate bonds(8)
  
 
0
  
  
 
3,712
  
 
 
12
  
  
 
3,724
  

 Asset-backed
  
 
0
  
  
 
17
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
17
  

 Collateralized Mortgage Obligations(CMO)(9)
  
 
0
  
  
 
639
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
639
  

 Interest rate swaps (Notional amount: $559)
  
 
0
  
  
 
(21
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(21
) 

 Guaranteed investment contract
  
 
0
  
  
 
18
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
18
  

 Other(10)
  
 
46
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
62
  
  
 
110
  

 Unrealized gain (loss) on investment of securities lending collateral(11)
  
 
0
  
  
 
(141
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(141
) 


  



  



 



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



  
 
8,619
  







 Short-term Investments:
  



  



 



  




 Pooled separate accounts
  
 
0
  
  
 
293
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
293
  

 United Kingdom insurance pooled funds
  
 
0
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
6
  


  



  



 



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



  
 
299
  







 Real Estate:
  



  



 



  




 Pooled separate accounts(12)
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
318
  
  
 
318
  

 Partnerships
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
105
  
  
 
105
  


  



  



 



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



  
 
423
  







 Other:
  



  



 



  




 Structured debt (Gateway Recovery Trust)
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Partnerships
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
552
  
  
 
552
  

 Hedge funds
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
678
  
  
 
678
  


  



  



 



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



  
 
1,230
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
46
  
  
$
10,019
  
 
$
1,747
  
  
$
11,812
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  362



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




















 
  
As of December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
 
Level 3
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 U.S. Equities:
  



  



 



 




 Pooled separate accounts(1)
  
$
0
 
  
$
922
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
922
 

 Common/collective trusts(1)
  
 
0
 
  
 
35
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
35
 

 Other(10)
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



 
 
957
 

 International Equities:
  



  



 



 




 Pooled separate accounts(2)
  
 
0
 
  
 
24
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
24
 

 Common/collective trusts(3)
  
 
0
 
  
 
191
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
191
 

 United Kingdom insurance pooled funds(4)
  
 
0
 
  
 
77
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
77
 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



 
 
292
 







 Fixed Maturities:
  



  



 



 




 Pooled separate accounts(5)
  
 
0
 
  
 
996
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
996
 

 Common/collective trusts(6)
  
 
0
 
  
 
290
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
290
 

 U.S. government securities (federal):
  



  



 



 




 Mortgage-backed
  
 
0
 
  
 
4
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
4
 

 Other U.S. government securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
1,806
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
1,806
 

 U.S. government securities (state & other)
  
 
0
 
  
 
533
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
533
 

 Non-U.S. government securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
24
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
24
 

 United Kingdom insurance pooled funds(7)
  
 
0
 
  
 
104
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
104
 

 Corporate Debt:
  



  



 



 




 Corporate bonds(8)
  
 
0
 
  
 
3,043
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
3,053
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
0
 
  
 
20
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
20
 

 Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (CMO)(9)
  
 
0
 
  
 
739
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
739
 

 Interest rate swaps (Notional amount: $412)
  
 
0
 
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(23
) 

 Guaranteed investment contract
  
 
0
 
  
 
17
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
17
 

 Other(10)
  
 
101
 
  
 
9
 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
102
 

 Unrealized gain (loss) on investment of securities lending collateral(13)
  
 
0
 
  
 
(123
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(123
) 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



 
 
7,542
 

 Short-term Investments:
  



  



 



 




 Pooled separate accounts
  
 
0
 
  
 
32
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
32
 

 United Kingdom insurance pooled funds
  
 
0
 
  
 
5
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
5
 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



 
 
37
 







 Real Estate:
  



  



 



 




 Pooled separate accounts(12)
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
216
 
 
 
216
 

 Partnerships
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
42
 
 
 
42
 

 Other
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



 
 
258
 







 Other:
  



  



 



 




 Structured debt (Gateway Recovery Trust)
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
658
 
 
 
658
 

 Partnerships
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
219
 
 
 
219
 

 Hedge fund
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
570
 
 
 
570
 


  



  



 



 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



 



 
 
1,447
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
101
 
  
$
8,725
 
 
$
1,707
 
 
$
10,533
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
These categories invest in U.S. equity funds whose objective is to track or outperform various indexes. 


(2)
 
This category invests in a large cap international equity funds whose objective is to track an index. 


(3)
 
This category invests in international equity funds, primarily large cap, whose objective is to outperform various indexes. 


(4)
 
This category invests in an international equity fund whose objective is to track an index. 


(5)
 
This category invests in bond funds, primarily highly rated private placement securities. 


(6)
 
This category invests in bond funds, primarily highly rated public securities whose objective is to outperform an index. 


(7)
 
This category invests in bond funds, primarily highly rated corporate securities. 
  363



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 


(8)
 
This category invests in highly rated corporate securities. 


(9)
 
This category invests in highly rated Collateralized Mortgage Obligations. 


(10)
 
Primarily cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, payables and receivables, and open future contract positions (including fixed income collateral).



(11)
 
The contractual net value of the investment of securities lending collateral invested in primarily short-term bond funds is $1,289 million and the liability for
securities lending collateral is $1,430 million. 


(12)
 
This category invests in commercial real estate and real estate securities funds, whose objective is to outperform an index 


(13)
 
The contractual net value of the investment of securities lending collateral invested in primarily short-term bond funds is $1,295 million and the liability for
securities lending collateral is $1,418 million.   
Changes in Fair Value of Level 3 Pension Assets   




















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
 
FixedMaturities–PooledSeparateAccounts
 
 
FixedMaturities–CorporateDebt–
CorporateBonds
 
 
FixedMaturities–Other

 
 
Real 
Estate–PooledSeparateAccounts
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
 
$
0
 
 
$
10
 
 
$
(8
) 
 
$
216
 

 Actual Return on Assets:
 



 



 




 Relating to assets still held at the reporting date
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
39
 

 Relating to assets sold during the period
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
16
 

 Purchases, sales and settlements
 
 
20
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
70
 
 
 
47
 

 Transfers in and /or out of Level 3
 
 
0
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
 
$
20
 
 
$
12
 
 
$
62
 
 
$
318
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Real Estate–Partnerships
 
 
Other–StructuredDebt

 
 
Other–Partnerships
 
 
Other–HedgeFund
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
 
$
42
 
 
$
658
 
 
$
219
 
 
$
570
 

 Actual Return on Assets:
 



 



 




 Relating to assets still held at the reporting date
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
(20
) 

 Relating to assets sold during the period
 
 
0
 
 
 
44
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
2
 

 Purchases, sales and settlements
 
 
63
 
 
 
(702
) 
 
 
300
 
 
 
126
 

 Transfers in and /or out of Level 3
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
 
$
105
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
552
 
 
$
678
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
 
FixedMaturities–CorporateDebt
 –CorporateBonds
 
 
FixedMaturities–CorporateDebt–CMO
 
 
FixedMaturities–Other
 
 
Real 
Estate–PooledSeparateAccounts
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
 
$
1
 
 
$
2
 
 
$
120
 
 
$
187
 

 Actual Return on Assets:
 



 



 




 Relating to assets still held at the reporting date
 
 
1
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
42
 

 Relating to assets sold during the period
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(2
) 

 Purchases, sales and settlements
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(128
) 
 
 
(11
) 

 Transfers in and /or out of Level 3
 
 
8
 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
 
$
10
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
(8
) 
 
$
216
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  364



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Real Estate–Partnerships
 
 
Other–StructuredDebt
 
 
Other–Partnerships
 
 
Other–HedgeFund
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
 
$
48
 
 
$
572
 
 
$
280
 
 
$
218
 

 Actual Return on Assets:
 



 



 




 Relating to assets still held at the reporting date
 
 
4
 
 
 
86
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
44
 

 Relating to assets sold during the period
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases, sales and settlements
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
200
 

 Transfers in and /or out of Level 3
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(108
) 
 
 
108
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
 
$
42
 
 
$
658
 
 
$
219
 
 
$
570
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Postretirement plan asset
allocations in accordance with the investment guidelines are as follows:   




















 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 U.S. Equities:
  



  



  



  




 Variable Life Insurance Policies(1)
  
$
0
 
  
$
439
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
439
 

 Common trusts(2)
  
 
0
 
  
 
85
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
85
 

 Equities
  
 
96
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
96
 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



  



  
 
620
 







 International Equities:
  



  



  



  




 Variable Life Insurance Policies(3)
  
 
0
 
  
 
44
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
44
 

 Common trusts(4)
  
 
0
 
  
 
15
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
15
 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



  



  
 
59
 







 Fixed Maturities:
  



  



  



  




 Common trusts(5)
  
 
0
 
  
 
27
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
27
 

 U.S. government securities (federal):
  



  



  



  




 Mortgage-Backed
  
 
0
 
  
 
12
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
12
 

 Other U.S. government securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
101
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
101
 

 U.S. government securities (state & other)
  
 
0
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
3
 

 Non-U.S. government securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
3
 

 Corporate Debt:
  



  



  



  




 Corporate bonds(6)
  
 
0
 
  
 
284
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
286
 

 Asset-Backed
  
 
0
 
  
 
62
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
62
 

 Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (CMO)(7)
  
 
0
 
  
 
144
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
144
 

 Interest rate swaps (Notional amount: $560)
  
 
0
 
  
 
(4
) 
  
 
0
 
  
 
(4
) 

 Other(8)
  
 
8
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
10
 

 Unrealized gain (loss) on investment of securities lending collateral(9)
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



  



  
 
644
 







 Short-term Investments:
  



  



  



  




 Variable Life Insurance Policies
  
 
0
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
1
 

 Registered investment companies
  
 
20
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
20
 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



  



  
 
21
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
124
 
  
$
1,216
 
  
$
4
 
  
$
1,344
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  365



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




















 
  
As of December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 U.S. Equities:
  



  



  



  




 Variable Life Insurance Policies:
  



  



  



  




 Pooled separate accounts(11)
  
$
0
 
  
$
449
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
449
 

 Registered investment companies
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 

 Common trusts(2)
  
 
0
 
  
 
88
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
88
 

 Equities
  
 
102
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
102
 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



  



  
 
639
 







 International Equities:
  



  



  



  




 Variable Life Insurance Policies
  



  



  



  




 Pooled separate accounts(3)
  
 
0
 
  
 
51
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
51
 

 Common trusts(4)
  
 
0
 
  
 
17
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
17
 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



  



  
 
68
 







 Fixed Maturities:
  



  



  



  




 Common trusts(5)
  
 
0
 
  
 
23
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
23
 

 U.S. government securities (federal):
  



  



  



  




 Mortgage-Backed
  
 
0
 
  
 
13
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
13
 

 Other U.S. government securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
157
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
157
 

 U.S. government securities (state & other)
  
 
0
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
2
 

 Non-U.S. government securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
3
 

 Corporate Debt:
  



  



  



  




 Corporate bonds(6)
  
 
0
 
  
 
281
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
283
 

 Asset-Backed
  
 
0
 
  
 
73
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
73
 

 Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (CMO)(7)
  
 
0
 
  
 
201
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
201
 

 Interest rate swaps (Notional amount: $322)
  
 
0
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
3
 

 Other(8)
  
 
10
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
14
 

 Unrealized gain (loss) on investment of securities lending collateral(10)
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



  



  
 
772
 







 Short-term Investments:
  



  



  



  




 Variable Life Insurance Policies
  



  



  



  




 Pooled separate accounts
  
 
0
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
1
 

 Registered investment companies
  
 
15
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
15
 


  



  



  



  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  



  



  



  
 
16
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
127
 
  
$
1,362
 
  
$
6
 
  
$
1,495
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
This category invests in U.S. equity funds, primarily large cap equities whose objective is to track an index via pooled separate accounts and registered investment
companies. 


(2)
 
This category invests in U.S. equity funds, primarily large cap equities. 


(3)
 
This category invests in international equity funds, primarily large cap international equities whose objective is to track an index. 


(4)
 
This category fund invests in large cap international equity fund whose objective is to outperform an index. 


(5)
 
This category invests in U.S. bonds funds. 


(6)
 
This category invests in highly rated corporate bonds. 


(7)
 
This category invests in highly rated Collateralized Mortgage Obligations. 


(8)
 
Cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, payables and receivables and open future contract positions (including fixed income collateral).



(9)
 
In 2011 the contractual net value of the investment of securities lending collateral invested in primarily short-term bond funds is $78 million and the liability for
securities lending collateral is $78 million. 


(10)
 
In 2010 the contractual net value of the investment of securities lending collateral invested in primarily short-term bond funds is $30 million and the liability for
securities lending collateral is $30 million. 


(11)
 
This category invests in U.S. equity funds, primarily large cap equities whose objective is to track an index. 
  366



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Changes in Fair Value of Level 3 Postretirement Assets 
 












 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
FixedMaturities–Corporate Debt–CorporateBonds
 
  
FixedMaturities–Other
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
2
 
  
$
4
 

 Actual Return on Assets:
  



  




 Relating to assets still held at the reporting date
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 

 Relating to assets sold during the period
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 

 Purchases, sales and settlements
  
 
0
 
  
 
(2
) 

 Transfers in and /or out of Level 3
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
2
 
  
$
2
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FixedMaturities–
Corporate Debt–CorporateBonds
 
  
FixedMaturities–Corporate Debt–CMO
 
 
FixedMaturities–Other
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
1
 
  
$
2
 
 
$
12
 

 Actual Return on Assets:
  



  



 




 Relating to assets still held at the reporting date
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Relating to assets sold during the period
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases, sales and settlements
  
 
1
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
(8
) 

 Transfers in and /or out of Level 3
  
 
0
 
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
2
 
  
$
0
 
 
$
4
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   A summary of pension and
postretirement plan asset allocation as of the year ended December 31, are as follows:   




















 
  
Pension Percentage of Plan Assets
 
 
Postretirement Percentage of PlanAssets
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Asset Category
  



 



 



 




 U.S. Equities
  
 
8
% 
 
 
9
% 
 
 
46
% 
 
 
43
% 

 International Equities
  
 
2
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
4
  

 Fixed Maturities
  
 
73
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
52
  

 Short-term Investments
  
 
2
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
1
  

 Real Estate
  
 
4
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Other
  
 
11
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  367



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The expected benefit payments for the Company’s pension and postretirement plans,
as well as the expected Medicare Part D subsidy receipts related to the Company’s postretirement plan, for the years indicated are as follows:   
















 
  
PensionBenefits
 
  
OtherPostretirementBenefits
 
  
OtherPostretirementBenefits–MedicarePart D SubsidyReceipts
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2012
  
$
718
 
  
$
195
 
  
$
19
 

 2013
  
 
648
 
  
 
196
 
  
 
20
 

 2014
  
 
658
 
  
 
195
 
  
 
21
 

 2015
  
 
662
 
  
 
193
 
  
 
21
 

 2016
  
 
670
 
  
 
192
 
  
 
22
 

 2017-2021
  
 
3,494
 
  
 
930
 
  
 
112
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
6,850
 
  
$
1,901
 
  
$
215
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The Company anticipates that
it will make cash contributions in 2012 of approximately $480 million to the pension plans and approximately $10 million to the postretirement plans.   
Postemployment Benefits   
The Company accrues postemployment benefits for income continuance and health and life benefits provided to former or inactive employees
who are not retirees. The net accumulated liability for these benefits at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $34 million and $33 million, respectively, and is included in “Other liabilities.” 
  Other Employee Benefits 
  The Company sponsors voluntary savings plans for employees
(401(k) plans). The plans provide for salary reduction contributions by employees and matching contributions by the Company of up to 4% of annual salary. The matching contributions by the Company included in “General and administrative
expenses” were $54 million, $52 million and $53 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  368



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
19.    INCOME TAXES 
  The components of income tax expense
(benefit) for the years ended December 31, were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Current tax expense (benefit)
  



 



 




 U.S.
  
$
73
  
 
$
(728
) 
 
$
(52
) 

 State and local
  
 
2
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
7
  

 Foreign
  
 
372
  
 
 
348
  
 
 
(71
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
447
  
 
 
(368
) 
 
 
(116
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax expense (benefit)
  



 



 




 U.S.
  
 
748
  
 
 
1,289
  
 
 
(619
) 

 State and local
  
 
9
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
(7
) 

 Foreign
  
 
395
  
 
 
341
  
 
 
680
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,152
  
 
 
1,671
  
 
 
54
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense (benefit) on continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
 
1,599
  
 
 
1,303
  
 
 
(62
) 

 Income tax expense on equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
 
79
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
807
  

 Income tax expense on discontinued operations
  
 
18
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
100
  

 Income tax expense (benefit) reported in equity related to:
  



 



 




 Other comprehensive income
  
 
1,312
  
 
 
1,597
  
 
 
3,352
  

 Impact on Company’s investment in Wachovia Securities due to addition of A.G. Edwards business
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(59
) 

 Stock-based compensation programs
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
22
  

 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
355
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income taxes
  
$
2,989
  
 
$
2,974
  
 
$
4,515
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The Company’s income
(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures includes income (loss) from domestic and foreign operations, for the years ended December 31, as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Domestic operations
  
$
1,793
 
  
$
2,410
 
  
$
(218
) 

 Foreign operations
  
$
3,324
 
  
$
1,982
 
  
$
1,742
 
   The Company’s actual
income tax expense on continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for the years ended December 31, differs from the expected amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% to income from
continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for the following reasons:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Expected federal income tax expense
  
$
1,791
 
 
$
1,537
 
 
$
533
 

 Reversal of acquisition opening balance sheet deferred tax items
  
 
252
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
6
 

 Non-taxable investment income
  
 
(247
) 
 
 
(214
) 
 
 
(177
) 

 Uncertain tax positions and interest
  
 
(57
) 
 
 
9
 
 
 
(286
) 

 Low income housing and other tax credits
  
 
(45
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
(68
) 

 Change in tax rate
  
 
29
 
 
 
69
 
 
 
0
 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
8
 
 
 
29
 
 
 
0
 

 Other
  
 
(132
) 
 
 
(75
) 
 
 
(70
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense (benefit) on continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
1,599
 
 
$
1,303
 
 
$
(62
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  369



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Total income tax expense includes additional tax expense related to the utilization of
deferred tax assets recorded in the Statement of Financial Position as of the acquisition date for Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (“PGFL”) and the Star and Edison Businesses. The balance of additional tax
expense to be recognized in the future related to the utilization of opening balance sheet deferred tax assets is as follows:   
















 
  
PGFL
 
 
Star andEdisonBusinesses
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Opening balance sheet deferred tax assets after valuation allowance that will result in additional tax expense
  
$
42
 
 
$
678
 
 
$
720
 

 Additional tax expense recognized in the Statement of Operations:
  



 



 




 2009
  
 
6
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
6
 

 2010
  
 
6
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
6
 

 2011
  
 
(28
) 
 
 
283
 
 
 
255
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
283
 
 
 
267
 

 Additional tax expense (benefit) recognized in Other Comprehensive Income
  
 
17
 
 
 
(47
) 
 
 
(30
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Additional tax expense to be recognized in future periods
  
$
41
 
 
$
442
 
 
$
483
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   Deferred tax assets and
liabilities at December 31, resulted from the items listed in the following table:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Deferred tax assets
  



 




 Insurance reserves
  
$
1,883
 
 
$
624
 

 Policyholders’ dividends
  
 
1,817
 
 
 
938
 

 Net operating and capital loss carryforwards
  
 
1,108
 
 
 
719
 

 Employee benefits
  
 
582
 
 
 
321
 

 Other
  
 
871
 
 
 
239
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets before valuation allowance
  
 
6,261
 
 
 
2,841
 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(393
) 
 
 
(386
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets after valuation allowance
  
 
5,868
 
 
 
2,455
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities
  



 




 Net unrealized investment gains
  
 
4,794
 
 
 
2,807
 

 Deferred policy acquisition costs
  
 
4,378
 
 
 
4,474
 

 Investments
  
 
2,155
 
 
 
337
 

 Unremitted foreign earnings
  
 
1,368
 
 
 
579
 

 Value of business acquired
  
 
1,225
 
 
 
308
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities
  
 
13,920
 
 
 
8,505
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax liability
  
$
(8,052
) 
 
$
(6,050
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The application of U.S. GAAP
requires the Company to evaluate the recoverability of deferred tax assets and establish a valuation allowance if necessary to reduce the deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not expected to be realized. Considerable judgment is
required in determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, and if so, the amount of such valuation allowance. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance the Company considers many factors, including: (1) the nature of the
deferred tax assets and liabilities; (2) whether they are ordinary or capital; (3) in which tax jurisdictions they were generated and the timing of their reversal; (4) taxable income in prior carryback years as well as projected
taxable earnings exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; (5) the length of time that carryovers can be utilized in the various taxing jurisdictions; (6) any unique tax rules that would impact the utilization of the
deferred tax assets; and (7) any tax planning strategies that the Company would employ to avoid a tax benefit from expiring unused. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax
assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized. 
  370



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
A valuation allowance has been recorded related to tax benefits associated with state
and local and foreign deferred tax assets. Adjustments to the valuation allowance are made to reflect changes in management’s assessment of the amount of the deferred tax asset that is realizable. The valuation allowance includes amounts
recorded in connection with deferred tax assets at December 31, as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Valuation allowance related to state and local deferred tax assets
  
$
357
 
  
$
297
 

 Valuation allowance related to foreign operations deferred tax assets
  
$
36
 
  
$
89
 
   The following table sets
forth the federal, state and foreign operating and capital loss carryforwards for tax purposes, at December 31:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Federal net operating and capital loss carryforwards(1)
  
$
1,112
 
  
$
812
 

 State net operating and capital loss carryforwards(2)
  
$
6,106
 
  
$
5,330
 

 Foreign operating loss carryforwards(3)
  
$
1,241
 
  
$
405
 
  


(1)
 
Expires between 2020 and 2031. 


(2)
 
Expires between 2012 and 2031. 


(3)
 
$1,208 million expires between 2014 and 2020 and $33 million has an unlimited carryforward.    The Company does not provide U.S. income taxes on unremitted foreign earnings of its non-U.S. operations, other
than its operations in Japan and certain operations in India, Germany, and Taiwan. In 2009, the Company sold its investment in its Mexican subsidiaries Prudential Financial Operadora de Sociedades de Inversion S.A. de C.V., Prudential Bank, S.A.
Institucion de Banca, and Prudential Consultoria, S. De R.L. de C.V. Consequently, their earnings were no longer considered permanently reinvested and the Company recognized an income tax expense of $6 million related to the sale in “Income
from discontinued operations, net of taxes.” In addition, in 2009, the Company determined, due to the then pending sale, that the earnings from certain of its Korean investment management subsidiaries would be repatriated to the U.S.
Accordingly, earnings from those Korean investment management subsidiaries were not considered permanently reinvested and the Company recognized an income tax expense of $66 million associated with the expected repatriation of those earnings in
“Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes.” During 2010, the Company made no material changes with respect to its repatriation assumptions. In 2011 the Company sold various foreign entities that were a part of the global
commodities group and the relocation business. Consequently, their earnings were no longer considered permanently reinvested and the Company recognized an income tax expense of $6 million related to the sale of global commodities group in
“Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes” and income tax benefit of $11 million related to the sale of the relocation business.   
The following table sets forth the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, where the Company assumes permanent reinvestment, for
which U.S. deferred taxes have not been provided, as of the periods indicated. Determining the tax liability that would arise if these earnings were remitted is not practicable.   
















 
  
At December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries (assuming permanent reinvestment)
  
$
2,145
 
  
$
2,050
 
  
$
1,710
 

  371



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The Company’s unrecognized tax benefits for the periods indicated are as follows:
  
















 
  
Unrecognizedtax benefitsprior to 2002
 
 
Unrecognizedtax benefits2002 andforward
 
 
Totalunrecognizedtax benefitsall years
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Amounts as of December 31, 2008
  
$
387
 
 
$
288
 
 
$
675
 

 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits taken in prior period
  
 
0
 
 
 
31
 
 
 
31
 

 (Decreases) in unrecognized tax benefits taken in prior period
  
 
(21
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(47
) 

 Settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
0
 
 
 
65
 
 
 
65
 

 (Decreases) in unrecognized tax benefits as a result of lapse of the applicable statute of limitations
  
 
(214
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(214
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts as of December 31, 2009
  
 
152
 
 
 
358
 
 
 
510
 

 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits taken in prior period
  
 
0
 
 
 
44
 
 
 
44
 

 (Decreases) in unrecognized tax benefits taken in prior period
  
 
0
 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
) 

 Settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts as of December 31, 2010
  
 
152
 
 
 
400
 
 
 
552
 

 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits taken in prior period
  
 
0
 
 
 
96
 
 
 
96
 

 (Decreases) in unrecognized tax benefits taken in prior period
  
 
(152
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(152
) 

 Settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
0
 
 
 
(406
) 
 
 
(406
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts as of December 31, 2011
  
$
0
 
 
$
90
 
 
$
90
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective rate as of December 31,
2009
  
$
152
 
 
$
109
 
 
$
261
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective rate as of December 31,
2010
  
$
152
 
 
$
109
 
 
$
261
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective rate as of December 31,
2011
  
$
0
 
 
$
38
 
 
$
38
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The Company classifies all
interest and penalties related to tax uncertainties as income tax expense (benefit). The amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements for tax-related interest and penalties for the years ended December 31, are as follows:
  
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Interest and penalties recognized in the consolidated statements of operations
  
$
13
 
  
$
7
 
  
$
(70
) 

 Interest and penalties recognized in liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position
  
$
28
 
  
$
72
 
  
$
65
 
   The Company’s liability
for income taxes includes the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and interest that relate to tax years still subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or other taxing authorities. The completion of review or the
expiration of the Federal statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to the liability for income taxes. The Federal statute of limitations for the 2002 tax year expired on April 30, 2009. The Federal statute
of limitations for the 2003 tax year expired on July 31, 2009. The Federal statute of limitations for the 2004 through 2007 tax years will expire in June 2012, unless extended. Tax years 2008 through 2010 are still open for IRS examination.
   During 2004 through 2006, the Company entered
into two transactions that involved, among other things, the payment of foreign income taxes that were credited against the Company’s U.S. tax liability. On May 23, 2011, the IRS issued notices of proposed adjustments disallowing the
foreign tax credits claimed and related transaction expenses. The total amount of the proposed adjustments for the transactions was approximately $200 million of tax and penalties. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company reached agreement
with the IRS on the resolution of the proposed foreign tax credits disallowance. The impact to the 2011 results attributable to the 
  372



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

settlement was an increase to tax expense of approximately $93 million. The settlement of the foreign tax credit transactions for 2004 through 2006 marked the conclusion of the IRS audits for
those years. As a result, all unrecognized tax positions plus interest relating to tax years prior to 2007 were recognized in 2011. As such, 2011 benefited from a reduction to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $70 million, including the
impact from the foreign tax credit disallowance.   
The Company does not anticipate any significant changes within the next 12 months to its total unrecognized tax benefits related to tax
years for which the statute of limitations has not expired.    The dividends received deduction (“DRD”) reduces the amount of dividend income subject to U.S. tax and is the primary component of the non-taxable investment income shown in the table above,
and, as such, is a significant component of the difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. The DRD for the current period was estimated using information from 2010, current year results, and
was adjusted to take into account the current year’s equity market performance. The actual current year DRD can vary from the estimate based on factors such as, but not limited to, changes in the amount of dividends received that are eligible
for the DRD, changes in the amount of distributions received from mutual fund investments, changes in the account balances of variable life and annuity contracts, and the Company’s taxable income before the DRD. 
  In August 2007, the IRS released Revenue Ruling 2007-54,
which included, among other items, guidance on the methodology to be followed in calculating the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. In September 2007, the IRS released Revenue Ruling 2007-61. Revenue Ruling 2007-61
suspended Revenue Ruling 2007-54 and informed taxpayers that the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS intend to address through new guidance the issues considered in Revenue Ruling 2007-54, including the methodology to be followed in determining the
DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. On February 13, 2012, the Obama Administration released the “General Explanations of the Administration’s Revenue Proposals.” One proposal would change the method used
to determine the amount of the DRD. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through guidance or legislation, could increase actual tax expense and reduce the Company’s consolidated
net income. These activities had no impact on the Company’s 2009, 2010 or 2011 results.    In December 2006, the IRS completed all fieldwork with respect to its examination of the consolidated federal income tax returns for tax years 2002 and 2003. The final report was initially submitted to
the Joint Committee on Taxation for their review in April 2007. The final report was resubmitted in March 2008 and again in April 2008. The Joint Committee returned the report to the IRS for additional review of an industry issue regarding the
methodology for calculating the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The IRS completed its review of the issue and proposed an adjustment with respect to the calculation of the DRD. In order to expedite receipt of an income
tax refund related to the 2002 and 2003 tax years, the Company agreed to such adjustment. The report, with the adjustment to the DRD, was submitted to the Joint Committee on Taxation in October 2008. The Company was advised on January 2, 2009
that the Joint Committee completed its consideration of the report and took no exception to the conclusions reached by the IRS. Accordingly, the final report was processed and a $157 million refund was received in February 2009. The Company believed
that its return position with respect to the calculation of the DRD was technically correct. Therefore, the Company filed protective refund claims on October 1, 2009 to recover the taxes associated with the agreed upon adjustment. The IRS
issued an Industry Director Directive (“IDD”) in May 2010 stating that the methodology for calculating the DRD set forth in Revenue Ruling 2007-54 should not be followed. The IDD also confirmed that the IRS guidance issued before Revenue
Ruling 2007-54, which guidance the Company relied upon in calculating its DRD, should be used to determine the DRD. The Company has received a refund of approximately $3 million pursuant to the protective refund claims. These activities had no
impact on the Company’s 2009, 2010 or 2011 results.    For tax years 2007 through 2011, the Company is participating in the IRS’s Compliance Assurance Program (“CAP”). Under CAP, the IRS assigns an examination team to review completed
transactions contemporaneously 
  373



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

during these tax years in order to reach agreement with the Company on how they should be reported in the tax returns. If disagreements arise, accelerated resolutions programs are available to
resolve the disagreements in a timely manner before the tax returns are filed. It is management’s expectation this program will shorten the time period between the filing of the Company’s federal income tax returns and the IRS’s
completion of its examination of the returns.    The
Company’s affiliates in Japan file separate tax returns and are subject to audits by the local taxing authority. The general statute of limitations is five years from when the return is filed. During 2009, the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau
(“TRTB”) concluded a routine tax audit of the tax returns of Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. for its tax years ended March 31, 2004 to March 31, 2008. During 2011 the TRTB concluded a routine tax audit of the tax returns
of Edison Life Insurance Company Ltd. for its tax years ended March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010. These activities had no material impact on the Company’s 2009, 2010 or 2011 results. 
  The Company’s affiliates in South Korea file separate
tax returns and are subject to audits by the local taxing authority. The general statute of limitations is five years from when the return is filed. During 2009, a local district office in the South Korean tax authority concluded a routine tax audit
of the local taxes for tax years ended March 31, 2004 through March 31, 2007 of Prudential Life Insurance Company of Korea, Ltd. (“POK”). During 2010, South Korea’s National Tax Service concluded a general tax audit of
POK’s tax years ended March 31, 2006 to March 31, 2010. These activities had no material impact on the Company’s 2009, 2010 or 2011 results.   
On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was modified by the Health
Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 signed into law on March 30, 2010, (together, the “Healthcare Act”). The federal government provides a subsidy to companies that provide certain retiree prescription drug benefits (the
“Medicare Part D subsidy”), including the Company. The Medicare Part D subsidy was previously provided tax-free. However, as currently adopted, the Healthcare Act includes a provision that would reduce the tax deductibility of retiree
health care costs to the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received. In effect, this provision of the Healthcare Act makes the Medicare Part D subsidy taxable beginning in 2013. Therefore, the Company incurred a charge in 2010 for the reduction
of deferred tax assets of $94 million, which reduces net income and is reflected in “Income tax expense (benefit).”   
20.    FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
  Fair Value Measurement—Fair
value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The authoritative guidance around fair value established a framework
for measuring fair value that includes a hierarchy used to classify the inputs used in measuring fair value. The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques into three levels. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair
value measurement falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: 
  Level 1—Fair value is based on unadjusted quoted
prices in active markets that are accessible to the Company for identical assets or liabilities. These generally provide the most reliable evidence and are used to measure fair value whenever available. Active markets are defined as having the
following characteristics for the measured asset/liability: (i) many transactions, (ii) current prices, (iii) price quotes not varying substantially among market makers, (iv) narrow bid/ask spreads and (v) most information
publicly available. The Company’s Level 1 assets and liabilities primarily include certain cash equivalents and short-term investments, equity securities and derivative contracts that are traded in an active exchange market. Prices are obtained
from readily available sources for market transactions involving identical assets or liabilities.    Level 2—Fair value is based on significant inputs, other than Level 1 inputs, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of
the asset or liability through 
  374



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

corroboration with observable market data. Level 2 inputs include quoted market prices in active markets for similar assets and liabilities, quoted market prices in markets that are not active
for identical or similar assets or liabilities and other market observable inputs. The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities include: fixed maturities (corporate public and private bonds, most government securities, certain asset-backed and
mortgage-backed securities, etc.), certain equity securities (mutual funds, which do not actively trade and are priced based on a net asset value) and commercial mortgage loans, short-term investments and certain cash equivalents (primarily
commercial paper), and certain over-the-counter derivatives. Valuations are generally obtained from third party pricing services for identical or comparable assets or liabilities or through the use of valuation methodologies using observable market
inputs. Prices from services are validated through comparison to trade data and internal estimates of current fair value, generally developed using market observable inputs and economic indicators. 
  Level 3—Fair value is based on at least one or
more significant unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. These inputs reflect the Company’s assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. The Company’s Level 3 assets and liabilities
primarily include: certain private fixed maturities and equity securities, certain manually priced public equity securities and fixed maturities, certain highly structured over-the-counter derivative contracts, certain commercial mortgage loans,
certain consolidated real estate funds for which the Company is the general partner, and embedded derivatives resulting from certain products with guaranteed benefits. Prices are determined using valuation methodologies such as option pricing
models, discounted cash flow models and other similar techniques. Non-binding broker quotes, which are utilized when pricing service information is not available, are reviewed for reasonableness based on the Company’s understanding of the
market, and are generally considered Level 3. Under certain conditions, based on its observations of transactions in active markets, the Company may conclude the prices received from independent third party pricing services or brokers are not
reasonable or reflective of market activity. In those instances, the Company may choose to over-ride the third party pricing information or quotes received and apply internally-developed values to the related assets or liabilities. To the extent the
internally-developed valuations use significant unobservable inputs, they are classified as Level 3. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, these over-rides on a net basis were not material.    Assets and Liabilities by Hierarchy Level—The tables below present the balances of assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of the dates indicated.   
























 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Netting(1)
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available for sale:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
0
 
  
$
15,038
 
  
$
66
 
  
$
        
  
  
$
15,104
 

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
 
  
 
3,055
 
  
 
0
 
  



  
 
3,055
 

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
 
  
 
76,962
 
  
 
25
 
  



  
 
76,987
 

 Corporate securities
  
 
12
 
  
 
125,411
 
  
 
1,450
 
  



  
 
126,873
 

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
8,165
 
  
 
2,528
 
  



  
 
10,693
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
11,935
 
  
 
145
 
  



  
 
12,080
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
9,840
 
  
 
16
 
  



  
 
9,856
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
12
 
  
 
250,406
 
  
 
4,230
 
  



  
 
254,648
 

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
 
  
 
177
 
  
 
9
 
  



  
 
186
 

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
 
  
 
284
 
  
 
0
 
  



  
 
284
 

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
 
  
 
655
 
  
 
0
 
  



  
 
655
 

 Corporate securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
10,927
 
  
 
109
 
  



  
 
11,036
 

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
1,010
 
  
 
357
 
  



  
 
1,367
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
2,226
 
  
 
21
 
  



  
 
2,247
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
1,842
 
  
 
2
 
  



  
 
1,844
 

 Equity securities
  
 
769
 
  
 
122
 
  
 
20
 
  



  
 
911
 

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
684
 
  
 
267
 
  
 
0
 
  



  
 
951
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
1,453
 
  
 
17,510
 
  
 
518
 
  



  
 
19,481
 
  375



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
























 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
 
Level 3
 
  
Netting(1)
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Other trading account assets:
  



  



 



  



 




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
 
  
 
31
 
 
 
0
 
  



 
 
31
 

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
  



 
 
0
 

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
2
 
  
 
45
 
 
 
0
 
  



 
 
47
 

 Corporate securities
  
 
14
 
  
 
502
 
 
 
39
 
  



 
 
555
 

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
593
 
 
 
59
 
  



 
 
652
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
96
 
 
 
14
 
  



 
 
110
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
94
 
 
 
2
 
  



 
 
96
 

 Equity securities
  
 
305
 
  
 
40
 
 
 
1,276
 
  



 
 
1,621
 

 All other (2)
  
 
15
 
  
 
13,547
 
 
 
93
 
  
 
(11,222
) 
 
 
2,433
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
336
 
  
 
14,948
 
 
 
1,483
 
  
 
(11,222
) 
 
 
5,545
 

 Equity securities, available for sale
  
 
5,004
 
  
 
2,171
 
 
 
360
 
  



 
 
7,535
 

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
0
 
  
 
514
 
 
 
86
 
  



 
 
600
 

 Other long-term investments
  
 
193
 
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
1,110
 
  



 
 
1,292
 

 Short-term investments
  
 
5,506
 
  
 
3,254
 
 
 
0
 
  



 
 
8,760
 

 Cash equivalents
  
 
2,667
 
  
 
6,762
 
 
 
0
 
  



 
 
9,429
 

 Other assets
  
 
3
 
  
 
86
 
 
 
9
 
  



 
 
98
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal excluding separate account assets
  
 
15,174
 
  
 
295,640
 
 
 
7,796
 
  
 
(11,222
) 
 
 
307,388
 

 Separate account assets (3)
  
 
40,319
 
  
 
158,703
 
 
 
19,358
 
  



 
 
218,380
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
55,493
 
  
$
454,343
 
 
$
27,154
 
  
$
(11,222
) 
 
$
525,768
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Future policy benefits
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 
 
$
2,886
 
  
$
 
  
 
$
2,886
 

 Other liabilities
  
 
0
 
  
 
8,013
 
 
 
285
 
  
 
(7,854
) 
 
 
444
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
0
 
  
$
8,013
 
 
$
3,171
 
  
$
(7,854
) 
 
$
3,330
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
























 
  
As of December 31, 2010(4)
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Netting(1)
 
  
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
$
0
 
  
$
11,298
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
        
  
  
$
11,298
 

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
 
  
 
2,231
 
  
 
0
 
  



  
 
2,231
 

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
 
  
 
50,212
 
  
 
27
 
  



  
 
50,239
 

 Corporate securities
  
 
5
 
  
 
97,025
 
  
 
1,187
 
  



  
 
98,217
 

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
9,238
 
  
 
1,753
 
  



  
 
10,991
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
11,907
 
  
 
130
 
  



  
 
12,037
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
9,947
 
  
 
23
 
  



  
 
9,970
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
5
 
  
 
191,858
 
  
 
3,120
 
  



  
 
194,983
 

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities:
  



  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
 
  
 
266
 
  
 
0
 
  



  
 
266
 

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
0
 
  
 
182
 
  
 
0
 
  



  
 
182
 

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
0
 
  
 
569
 
  
 
0
 
  



  
 
569
 

 Corporate securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
10,036
 
  
 
82
 
  



  
 
10,118
 

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
804
 
  
 
226
 
  



  
 
1,030
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
2,402
 
  
 
5
 
  



  
 
2,407
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
1,345
 
  
 
18
 
  



  
 
1,363
 

 Equity securities
  
 
935
 
  
 
200
 
  
 
4
 
  



  
 
1,139
 

 Short-term investments and cash equivalents
  
 
606
 
  
 
91
 
  
 
0
 
  



  
 
697
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
1,541
 
  
 
15,895
 
  
 
335
 
  



  
 
17,771
 

  376



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
























 
  
As of December 31, 2010(4)
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
 
Netting(1)
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Other trading account assets:
  



  



  



 



 




 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies
  
 
0
 
  
 
96
 
  
 
0
 
 



 
 
96
 

 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions
  
 
118
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 



 
 
118
 

 Foreign government bonds
  
 
1
 
  
 
24
 
  
 
0
 
 



 
 
25
 

 Corporate securities
  
 
14
 
  
 
269
 
  
 
35
 
 



 
 
318
 

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
607
 
  
 
54
 
 



 
 
661
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
84
 
  
 
19
 
 



 
 
103
 

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
0
 
  
 
163
 
  
 
18
 
 



 
 
181
 

 Equity securities
  
 
393
 
  
 
142
 
  
 
26
 
 



 
 
561
 

 All other (2)
  
 
33
 
  
 
7,899
 
  
 
134
 
 
 
(5,904
) 
 
 
2,162
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
559
 
  
 
9,284
 
  
 
286
 
 
 
(5,904
) 
 
 
4,225
 

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
4,458
 
  
 
2,928
 
  
 
355
 
 



 
 
7,741
 

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
  
 
0
 
  
 
136
 
  
 
212
 
 



 
 
348
 

 Other long-term investments
  
 
37
 
  
 
129
 
  
 
768
 
 



 
 
934
 

 Short-term investments
  
 
3,307
 
  
 
1,669
 
  
 
0
 
 



 
 
4,976
 

 Cash equivalents
  
 
2,475
 
  
 
6,661
 
  
 
0
 
 



 
 
9,136
 

 Other assets
  
 
2,785
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
9
 
 



 
 
2,794
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal excluding separate account assets
  
 
15,167
 
  
 
228,560
 
  
 
5,085
 
 
 
(5,904
) 
 
 
242,908
 

 Separate account assets (3)
  
 
43,273
 
  
 
148,711
 
  
 
15,792
 
 



 
 
207,776
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
58,440
 
  
$
377,271
 
  
$
20,877
 
 
$
(5,904
) 
 
$
450,684
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Future policy benefits
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
(204
) 
 
$
 
  
 
$
(204
) 

 Other liabilities
  
 
1
 
  
 
6,736
 
  
 
3
 
 
 
(5,712
) 
 
 
1,028
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
1
 
  
$
6,736
 
  
$
(201
) 
 
$
(5,712
) 
 
$
824
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
“Netting” amounts represent cash collateral of $3,369 million and $192 million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 and the impact of
offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty. 


(2)
 
Primarily represents derivative assets. 


(3)
 
Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the
customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by the Company with respect to certain accounts. Separate account assets classified as Level 3 consist primarily of real estate and real estate investment funds. Separate account liabilities
are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 


(4)
 
Includes reclassifications to conform to current period presentation. 
  The methods and assumptions the Company uses to estimate the
fair value of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below. Information regarding separate account assets is excluded as the risk associated with these assets is primarily borne by the Company’s
customers and policyholders.    Fixed Maturity
Securities—The fair values of the Company’s public fixed maturity securities are generally based on prices obtained from independent pricing services. Prices from pricing services are sourced from multiple vendors, and a vendor
hierarchy is maintained by asset type based on historical pricing experience and vendor expertise. The Company generally receives prices from multiple pricing services for each security, but ultimately uses the price from the pricing service highest
in the vendor hierarchy based on the respective asset type. To validate reasonableness, prices are reviewed by internal asset managers through comparison with directly observed recent market trades and internal estimates of current fair value,
developed using market observable inputs and economic indicators. Consistent with the fair value hierarchy described above, securities with validated quotes from pricing services are generally reflected within Level 2, as they are primarily based on
observable pricing for similar assets and/or other market observable inputs. If the pricing information received from third party pricing services is not reflective of market activity or other inputs observable in the market, the

  377



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

Company may challenge the price through a formal process with the pricing service. If the pricing service updates the price to be more consistent in comparison to the presented market
observations, the security remains within Level 2.   
If the Company ultimately concludes that pricing information received from the independent pricing service is not reflective of market
activity, non-binding broker quotes are used, if available. If the Company concludes the values from both pricing services and brokers are not reflective of market activity, it may over-ride the information from the pricing service or broker with an
internally-developed valuation. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 over-rides on a net basis were not material. Internally-developed valuations or non-binding broker quotes are also used to determine fair value in circumstances where vendor
pricing is not available. These estimates may use significant unobservable inputs, which reflect the Company’s own assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset. Circumstances where observable market data are
not available may include events such as market illiquidity and credit events related to the security. Pricing service over-rides, internally-developed valuations and non-binding broker quotes are generally included in Level 3 in the fair value
hierarchy.    The fair value of private fixed
maturities, which are primarily comprised of investments in private placement securities, originated by internal private asset managers, are primarily determined using a discounted cash flow model. In certain cases these models primarily use
observable inputs with a discount rate based upon the average of spread surveys collected from private market intermediaries who are active in both primary and secondary transactions, taking into account, among other factors, the credit quality and
industry sector of the issuer and the reduced liquidity associated with private placements. Generally, these securities have been reflected within Level 2. For certain private fixed maturities, the discounted cash flow model may also incorporate
significant unobservable inputs, which reflect the Company’s own assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset. To the extent management determines that such unobservable inputs are not significant to the price
of a security, a Level 2 classification is made. Otherwise, a Level 3 classification is used.    Private fixed maturities also include debt investments in funds that, in addition to a stated coupon, pay a return based upon the results of the underlying portfolios. The fair values of these securities
are determined by reference to the funds’ net asset value (“NAV”). Since the NAV at which the funds trade can be observed by redemption and subscription transactions between third parties, the fair values of these investments have
been reflected within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.    Trading Account Assets—Trading account assets (including trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities) consist primarily of public corporate bonds, treasuries, equity securities and
derivatives whose fair values are determined consistent with similar instruments described above under “Fixed Maturity Securities” and below under “Equity Securities” and “Derivative Instruments.” 
  Equity Securities—Equity securities consist
principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly traded companies, perpetual preferred stock, privately traded securities, as well as common stock mutual fund shares. The fair values of most publicly traded equity securities are
based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets and are classified within Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Estimated fair values for most privately traded equity securities are determined using valuation and discounted cash
flow models that require a substantial level of judgment. In determining the fair value of certain privately traded equity securities the discounted cash flow model may also use unobservable inputs, which reflect the Company’s assumptions about
the inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset. Most privately traded equity securities are classified within Level 3. The fair values of common stock mutual fund shares that transact regularly (but do not trade in active markets
because they are not publicly available) are based on transaction prices of identical fund shares and are classified within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The fair values of preferred equity securities are based on prices obtained from
independent pricing services. These prices are then validated for reasonableness against recently traded market prices. Accordingly, these securities are generally classified within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Fair values of perpetual
preferred stock based on observable market inputs are 
  378



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

classified within Level 2. However, when prices from independent pricing services are based on non-binding broker quotes as the directly observable market inputs become unavailable, the fair
values of perpetual preferred stock are classified as Level 3.    Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans—The fair value of commercial mortgage loans held for investment (i.e., interim portfolio) and accounted for using the Fair Value Option are determined based
on the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the appropriate U.S. Treasury rate, adjusted for the current market spread for similar quality loans. The quality ratings for these loans, a primary determinant of the appropriate
credit spread and a significant component of the pricing input, are based on internally-developed methodology. As a result, these loans are included in Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.    The fair value of loans held for sale (i.e., agency-backed loans) and accounted for using the Fair Value Option
is determined utilizing pricing indicators from the whole loan market, where investors are committed to purchase these loans at a pre-determined price, which is considered the principal exit market for these loans. The Company has evaluated the
valuation inputs used for these assets, including the existence of pre-determined exit prices, the terms of the loans, prevailing interest rates and credit risk, and deemed that the primary pricing inputs are Level 2 inputs in the fair value
hierarchy.    Other Long-Term
Investments—Other long-term investments include limited partnerships which are consolidated because the Company is either deemed to exercise control or considered the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. These entities are
considered investment companies and follow specialized industry accounting whereby their assets are carried at fair value. The investments held by these entities include various feeder fund investments in underlying master funds (whose underlying
holdings generally include public fixed maturities, equity securities and mutual funds), as well as wholly-owned real estate held within other investment funds. The fair value of the feeder fund investments in master funds are generally determined
by reference to the investments in the underlying master funds.    The fair value of investments in funds holding publicly traded equity securities are generally based on quoted prices in active markets for identical investments and are therefore reflected as Level 1.
The fair value of investments in funds holding public fixed maturities and mutual funds are generally based on validated quotes from pricing services or observable data as described above, and are reflected in Level 2. The fair value of investments
in funds that are subject to significant liquidity restrictions are reflected in Level 3.    The fair value of fund investments, where the fair value option has been elected, is primarily determined by the fund managers. Since the valuations may be based on unobservable market inputs and cannot
be validated by the Company, these investments have been included within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.   
The fair value of real estate held in consolidated investment funds is determined through an independent appraisal process. The appraisals
generally utilize a discounted cash flow model, following an income approach that incorporates various assumptions including rental revenue, operating expenses and discount rates. The cash flow approach is supplemented with replacement cost
estimates and comparable recent sales data when available. These appraisals and the related assumptions are updated at least annually, and incorporate historical property experience and any observable market data, including any market transactions.
Since many of the assumptions utilized are unobservable and are considered to be significant inputs to the valuation, the real estate investments within other long-term investments have been reflected within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
   Derivative
Instruments—Derivatives are recorded at fair value either as assets, within “Other trading account assets,” or “Other long-term investments,” or as liabilities, within “Other liabilities,” except for
embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host contract. The fair values of derivative contracts are determined based on quoted prices in active exchanges or through the use of valuation models. The fair values of derivative
contracts can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, credit spreads, market volatility, expected returns, non-performance risk, liquidity and other factors.

  379



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

Liquidity valuation adjustments are made to reflect the cost of exiting significant risk positions, and consider the bid-ask spread, maturity, complexity, and other specific attributes of the
underlying derivative position.    The
Company’s exchange-traded futures and options include treasury futures, eurodollar futures, commodity futures, eurodollar options and commodity options. Exchange-traded futures and options are valued using quoted prices in active markets and
are classified within Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.    The majority of the Company’s derivative positions are traded in the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative market and are classified within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. OTC
derivatives classified within Level 2 are valued using models generally accepted in the financial services industry that use actively quoted or observable market input values from external market data providers, third-party pricing vendors and/or
recent trading activity. The fair values of most OTC derivatives, including interest rate and cross currency swaps, currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, commodity forward contracts, single name credit default swaps, loan commitments held for
sale and to-be-announced (or TBA) forward contracts on highly rated mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government sponsored entities are determined using discounted cash flow models. The fair values of European style option contracts are
determined using Black-Scholes option pricing models. These models’ key inputs include the contractual terms of the respective contract, along with significant observable inputs, including interest rates, currency rates, credit spreads, equity
prices, index dividend yields, non-performance risk, volatility and other factors.    OTC derivative contracts are executed under master netting agreements with counterparties with a Credit Support Annex, which is a bilateral ratings-sensitive agreement that requires collateral postings at
established credit threshold levels. These agreements protect the interests of the Company and its counterparties, should either party suffer a credit rating deterioration. The vast majority of the Company’s derivative agreements are with
highly rated major international financial institutions. To reflect the market’s perception of its own and the counterparty’s non-performance risk, the Company incorporates additional spreads over London Interbank Offered Rate
(“LIBOR”) into the discount rate used in determining the fair value of OTC derivative assets and liabilities. The additional credit spread over LIBOR rates is determined taking into consideration publicly available information relating to
the financial strength of the Company. The Company adjusts these credit spreads to remove any illiquidity risk premium, which is subject to a floor based on a percentage of the credit spread. However, the non-performance risk adjustment is applied
only to the uncollateralized portion of the OTC derivative assets and liabilities, after consideration of the impacts of two-way collateral posting. Most OTC derivative contract inputs have bid and ask prices that are actively quoted or can be
readily obtained from external market data providers. The Company’s policy is to use mid-market pricing in determining its best estimate of fair value.   
Derivatives classified as Level 3 include first-to-default credit basket swaps, look-back equity options and other structured products.
These derivatives are valued based upon models with some significant unobservable market inputs or inputs from less actively traded markets. The fair values of first-to-default credit basket swaps are derived from relevant observable inputs (e.g.,
individual credit default spreads, interest rates and recovery rates), and unobservable model-specific input values such as correlation between different credits within the same basket. Look-back equity options and other structured options and
derivatives are valued using simulation models such as the Monte Carlo and other techniques. The input values for look-back equity options are derived from observable market indices (e.g., interest rates, dividend yields and equity indices), and
unobservable model-specific input values including certain volatility parameters. Level 3 methodologies are validated through periodic comparison of the Company’s fair values to broker-dealer values. 
  Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments—Cash
equivalents and short-term investments include money market instruments, commercial paper and other highly liquid debt instruments. Money market instruments are generally valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible
for identical assets and are primarily classified as Level 1. The remaining instruments in the Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments category are typically not traded in active markets; however, their fair values are based on market observable
inputs and, accordingly, these investments have been classified within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 
  380



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Other Assets and Other Liabilities—Other assets carried at fair value as of
December 31, 2010 include U.S. Treasury bills held within the Company’s former global commodities business whose fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible to the Company for identical assets or
liabilities. As a result, they are reported in the Level 1 hierarchy. Other Liabilities as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, include derivative instruments for which fair values are determined as described above under
“Derivative Instruments.”    Future
Policy Benefits—The liability for future policy benefits includes general account liabilities for guarantees on variable annuity contracts, including guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (“GMAB”), guaranteed minimum
withdrawal benefits (“GMWB”) and guaranteed minimum income and withdrawal benefits (“GMIWB”), accounted for as embedded derivatives. The fair values of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB liabilities are calculated as the present value of
future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. This methodology could result in either a liability or contra-liability balance, given changing capital
market conditions and various policyholder behavior assumptions. Since there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated using internally-developed models with option pricing techniques. The
models are based on a risk neutral valuation framework and incorporate premiums for risks inherent in valuation techniques, inputs, and the general uncertainty around the timing and amount of future cash flows. The determination of these risk
premiums requires the use of management judgment.   
The Company is also required to incorporate the market-perceived risk of its own non-performance (“NPR”) in the valuation of the
embedded derivatives associated with its optional living benefit features. Since insurance liabilities are senior to debt, the Company believes that reflecting the financial strength ratings of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries in the
valuation of the liability or contra-liability appropriately takes into takes into consideration its NPR. To reflect NPR, the Company incorporates an additional credit spread over LIBOR rates into the discount rate used in the valuations of the
embedded derivatives associated with its optional living benefit features. The additional credit spread over LIBOR rates is determined taking into consideration publicly available information relating to the financial strength of the Company’s
insurance subsidiaries, as indicated by the credit spreads associated with funding agreements issued by these subsidiaries. The Company adjusts these credit spreads to remove any illiquidity risk premium, which is subject to a floor based on a
percentage of the credit spread. The additional credit spread over LIBOR rates incorporated into the discount rate as of December 31, 2011 generally ranged from 150 to 250 basis points for the portion of the interest rate curve most relevant to
these liabilities. This additional spread is applied at an individual contract level and only to those individual living benefit contracts in a liability position and not to those in a contra-liability position. 
  Other significant inputs to the valuation models for
the embedded derivatives associated with the optional living benefit features of the Company’s variable annuity products include capital market assumptions, such as interest rate and implied volatility assumptions, as well as various
policyholder behavior assumptions that are actuarially determined, including lapse rates, benefit utilization rates, mortality rates and withdrawal rates. These assumptions are reviewed at least annually, and updated based upon historical experience
and give consideration to any observable market data, including market transactions such as acquisitions and reinsurance transactions. Since many of the assumptions utilized in the valuation of the embedded derivatives associated with the
Company’s optional living benefit features are unobservable and are considered to be significant inputs to the liability valuation, the liability included in future policy benefits has been reflected within Level 3 in the fair value
hierarchy.    As of December 31, 2011,
the value of the embedded derivatives associated with the optional living benefit features of the Individual Annuities segment, before NPR, was a net liability of $8,341 million. This net liability was comprised of $8,555 million of individual
living benefit contracts in a liability position, net of $214 million of individual living benefit contracts in a contra-liability position. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s adjustment for NPR resulted in a $5,509 million cumulative
decrease to the embedded derivative liability for the Individual Annuities segment, reflecting the additional credit spread over LIBOR rates the Company incorporated 
  381



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

into the discount rate used in the valuations of those embedded derivatives in a liability position. Significant declines in risk-free interest rates and the impact of account value performance
in 2011 drove an increase in the embedded derivative liability associated with the optional living benefit features of the Company’s variable annuity products as of December 31, 2011. These factors, as well as an overall widening of the
spreads used in valuing NPR, which reflect the financial strength ratings of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries, also drove offsetting increases in the NPR adjustment. Partially offsetting these items was a $506 million charge relating to a
refinement to the calculation of the NPR that the Company implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011, which incorporates a floor to the illiquidity risk premium reduction at a percentage of the credit spread. 
  Transfers between Levels 1 and 2—Periodically
there are transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 for foreign common stocks held in the Company’s Separate Account. In certain periods, an adjustment may be made for the fair value of these assets beyond the quoted market price to reflect events
that occurred between the close of foreign trading markets and the close of U.S. trading markets for that day. If an adjustment is made in the reporting period, these Separate Accounts are classified as Level 2. When an adjustment is not made, they
are classified as Level 1. This type of adjustment was not made at December 31, 2011 or at December 31, 2010. This adjustment was made at December 31, 2009, as a result, for the year ended December 31, 2010, $3.4 billion of
transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 occurred for these Separate Account assets on a net basis.    Changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities—The following tables provide a summary of the changes in fair value of Level 3 assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31,
2011, as well as the portion of gains or losses included in income for the year ended December 31, 2011 attributable to unrealized gains or losses related to those assets and liabilities still held at December 31, 2011. 
 




























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-U.S.GovernmentAuthorities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-ForeignGovernmentBonds
 
 
FixedMaturities-Available
For-Sale-CorporateSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-Asset-BackedSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-CommercialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-ResidentialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
 
$
0
 
 
$
27
 
 
$
1,187
 
 
$
1,753
 
 
$
130
 
 
$
23
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
38
 
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
0
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
(139
) 
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
8
 
 
 
(1
) 

 Net investment income
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
24
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases
 
 
66
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
556
 
 
 
1,473
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
1
 

 Sales
 
 
0
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(144
) 
 
 
(558
) 
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
(1
) 

 Issuances
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Settlements
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(387
) 
 
 
(373
) 
 
 
(36
) 
 
 
(5
) 

 Foreign currency translation
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
54
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
143
 
 
 
502
 
 
 
31
 
 
 
(1
) 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
893
 
 
 
252
 
 
 
76
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
 
 
0
 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(677
) 
 
 
(623
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
 
$
66
 
 
$
25
 
 
$
1,450
 
 
$
2,528
 
 
$
145
 
 
$
16
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  382



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-U.S.GovernmentAuthorities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-ForeignGovernmentBonds
 
 
FixedMaturities-Available
For-Sale-CorporateSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-Asset-BackedSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-CommercialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-ResidentialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
(39
) 
 
$
7
 
 
$
(55
) 
 
$
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
 
$
0
 
 
$
2
 
 
$
(63
) 
 
$
(4
) 
 
$
13
 
 
$
(1
) 
  
























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
 
TradingAccount 
AssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-U.S.GovernmentAuthorities
 
 
TradingAccount 
AssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-CorporateSecurities
 
 
TradingAccount 
AssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-Asset-BackedSecurities
 
 
TradingAccount 
AssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-CommercialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 
 
TradingAccount 
AssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-ResidentialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
 
$
0
 
 
$
82
 
 
$
226
 
 
$
5
 
 
$
18
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
 



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
 



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
 
 
0
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases
 
 
9
 
 
 
72
 
 
 
305
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
0
 

 Sales
 
 
0
 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Issuances
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Settlements
 
 
0
 
 
 
(39
) 
 
 
(97
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(1
) 

 Foreign currency translation
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(15
) 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
 
 
0
 
 
 
43
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
 
 
0
 
 
 
(44
) 
 
 
(72
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
0
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
 
$
9
 
 
$
109
 
 
$
357
 
 
$
21
 
 
$
2
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
 



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
 



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
 
$
0
 
 
$
4
 
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

  383



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-EquitySecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-CorporateSecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-Asset-BackedSecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-CommercialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-ResidentialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
4
 
 
$
35
 
 
$
54
 
 
$
19
 
 
$
18
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
1
 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
2
 
 
 
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases
  
 
5
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Sales
  
 
(45
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
(2
) 

 Issuances
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Settlements
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(1
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
1
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 

 Other(1)
  
 
0
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
2
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
(14
) 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
76
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
20
 
 
$
39
 
 
$
59
 
 
$
14
 
 
$
2
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
(8
) 
 
$
1
 
 
$
(6
) 
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
0
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
OtherTradingAccountAssets-EquitySecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-All OtherActivity
 
 
EquitySecuritiesAvailable-
For-Sale
 
 
CommercialMortgageand OtherLoans
 
 
OtherLong-termInvestments
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
26
 
 
$
134
 
 
$
355
 
 
$
212
 
 
$
768
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
15
 
 
 
2
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
(63
) 
 
 
3
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(1
) 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(27
) 

 Purchases
  
 
34
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
63
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
280
 

 Sales
  
 
(62
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(66
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(25
) 

 Issuances
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Settlements
  
 
(111
) 
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
(141
) 
 
 
(168
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
24
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
75
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
14
 

 Other(1)
  
 
1,302
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(853
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
267
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
126
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
823
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
1,276
 
 
$
93
 
 
$
360
 
 
$
86
 
 
$
1,110
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
 
$
(31
) 
 
$
(25
) 
 
$
15
 
 
$
2
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
(72
) 
 
$
3
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
24
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
47
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

  384



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
OtherAssets
 
  
SeparateAccountAssets(4)
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits
 
 
OtherLiabilities
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
9
 
  
$
15,792
 
 
$
204
 
 
$
(3
) 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



  



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
(2,554
) 
 
 
(16
) 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account
  
 
0
 
  
 
2,868
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases
  
 
0
 
  
 
3,111
 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
 

 Sales
  
 
0
 
  
 
(1,462
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Issuances
  
 
0
 
  
 
3
 
 
 
(506
)
 
 
(284
) 

 Settlements
  
 
0
 
  
 
(1,156
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
18
 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
  
 
864
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
  
 
(662
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
9
 
  
$
19,358
 
 
$
(2,886
) 
 
$
(285
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets and liabilities that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



  



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 
 
$
(2,566
) 
 
$
(17
) 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account
  
$
0
 
  
$
1,823
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
  


(1)
 
Other includes reclassifications of certain assets between reporting categories and assets acquired from the Star and Edison Businesses. 


(2)
 
Transfers into or out of Level 3 are generally reported as the value as of the beginning of the quarter in which the transfer occurs. 


(3)
 
Unrealized gains or losses related to assets still held at the end of the period do not include amortization or accretion of premiums and discounts.



(4)
 
Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the
customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by the Company with respect to certain accounts. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in the
Company’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.    Transfers—As a part of an ongoing monitoring assessment of pricing inputs to ensure appropriateness of the level classification in the fair value hierarchy the Company may reassign level
classification from time to time. As a result of such a review, in the first quarter of 2011, it was determined that the pricing inputs for perpetual preferred stocks provided by third party pricing services were primarily based on non-binding
broker quotes which could not always be verified against directly observable market information. Consequently, perpetual preferred stocks were transferred into Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. This represents the majority of the transfers
into Level 3 for Equity Securities Available-for-Sale, Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities—Equity Securities and Other Trading Account Assets—Equity Securities. Other transfers into Level 3 were primarily the result of
unobservable inputs utilized within valuation methodologies and the use of broker quotes (that could not be validated) when previously, information from third party pricing services (that could be validated) was utilized. Transfers out of Level 3
were primarily due to the use of observable inputs in valuation methodologies as well as the utilization of pricing service information for certain assets that the Company was able to validate. 
  385



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The following tables provide a summary of the changes in fair value of Level 3 assets
and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2010, as well as the portion of gains or losses included in income for the year ended December 31, 2010, attributable to unrealized gains or losses related to those assets and liabilities
still held at December 31, 2010.   
























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-ForeignGovernmentBonds
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-For-Sale-
CorporateSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-Asset-BackedSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-CommercialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-
For-Sale-ResidentialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
47
 
 
$
902
 
 
$
6,363
 
 
$
305
 
 
$
104
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(55
) 
 
 
(142
) 
 
 
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
 
 
101
 
 
 
158
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
1
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements
  
 
0
 
 
 
(208
) 
 
 
392
 
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
(6
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
  
 
0
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
48
 
 
 
(48
) 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
547
 
 
 
131
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
2
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
(149
) 
 
 
(5,221
) 
 
 
(84
) 
 
 
(30
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
27
 
 
$
1,187
 
 
$
1,753
 
 
$
130
 
 
$
23
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
 
$
(31
) 
 
$
(64
) 
 
$
(148
) 
 
$
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
$
0
 
 
$
109
 
 
$
147
 
 
$
42
 
 
$
0
 

  386



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 






















 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
 
 
 
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-CorporateSecurities

 
 
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-Asset-BackedSecurities

 
 
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-CommercialMortgage-
BackedSecurities
 
 
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-ResidentialMortgage-Backed
Securities
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
 

 
$
83
 
 
$
281
 
 
$
5
 
 
$
20
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
 

 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
 

 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
 

 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
 

 
 
(1
) 
 
 
1
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
1
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
 

 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
 

 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements
 

 
 
(36
) 
 
 
185
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(3
) 

 Foreign currency translation
 

 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
 

 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
 

 
 
72
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
31
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
 

 
 
(37
) 
 
 
(251
) 
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
0
 


 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
 

 
$
82
 
 
$
226
 
 
$
5
 
 
$
18
 


 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
 

 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
 

 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
 

 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
 

 
$
(3
) 
 
$
1
 
 
$
5
 
 
$
1
 
  
























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-EquitySecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-CorporateSecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-Asset-BackedSecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-CommercialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-ResidentialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
3
 
 
$
34
 
 
$
97
 
 
$
27
 
 
$
12
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
2
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
3
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
3
 
 
 
(76
) 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(6
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
2
 

 Other(1)
  
 
0
 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
5
 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
2
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
9
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(5
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
4
 
 
$
35
 
 
$
54
 
 
$
19
 
 
$
18
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
2
 
 
$
2
 
 
$
9
 
 
$
4
 
 
$
2
 

  387



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
OtherTradingAccountAssets-EquitySecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-AllOtherActivity
 
 
EquitySecuritiesAvailable-For-Sale
 
 
CommercialMortgageand OtherLoans
 
 
OtherLong-termInvestments
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
24
 
 
$
297
 
 
$
393
 
 
$
338
 
 
$
498
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
 
 
(67
) 
 
 
24
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
(5
) 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
5
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
62
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
2
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements
  
 
5
 
 
 
(98
) 
 
 
(56
) 
 
 
(149
) 
 
 
211
 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
  
 
0
 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
26
 
 
$
134
 
 
$
355
 
 
$
212
 
 
$
768
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
 
$
(67
) 
 
$
(29
) 
 
$
22
 
 
$
(6
) 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
0
 
 
$
5
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
46
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
26
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
  
























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
OtherAssets
 
 
SeparateAccountAssets(4)
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits
 
 
Long-termDebt
 
 
OtherLiabilities
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
27
 
 
$
13,052
 
 
$
(55
) 
 
$
(429
) 
 
$
(6
) 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
570
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
1
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances
  
 
0
 
 
 
2,129
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
851
 
 
 
(311
) 
 
 
429
 
 
 
2
 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
171
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
(411
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
9
 
 
$
15,792
 
 
$
204
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
(3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets and liabilities that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
522
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
1
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
(7
) 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances
  
$
0
 
 
$
1,081
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
  


(1)
 
Other represents the impact of consolidation or deconsolidation of funds and reclassifications of certain assets between reporting categories. 
  388



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 


(2)
 
Transfers into or out of Level 3 are generally reported as the value as of the beginning of the quarter in which the transfer occurs. 


(3)
 
Unrealized gains or losses related to assets still held at the end of the period do not include amortization or accretion of premiums and discounts.



(4)
 
Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the
customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by the Company with respect to certain accounts. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in the
Company’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Includes reclassifications to conform to current period presentation.   
Transfers—Transfers out of Level 3 for Fixed Maturities Available-for-Sale—Asset-Backed Securities and Trading Account
Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities—Asset-Backed Securities include $4,974 million and $222 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulting from the Company’s conclusion that the market for asset-backed
securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages has been becoming increasingly active, as evidenced by orderly transactions. The pricing received from independent pricing services could be validated by the Company. The market for asset-backed
securities was deemed inactive in 2009. Other transfers out of Level 3 were typically due to the use of observable inputs in valuation methodologies as well as the utilization of pricing service information for certain assets that the Company was
able to validate. Transfers into Level 3 were primarily the result of unobservable inputs utilized within valuation methodologies and the use of broker quotes (that could not be validated) when previously, information from third party pricing
services (that could be validated) was utilized.   
The following tables provide a summary of the changes in fair value of Level 3 assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31,
2009, as well as the portion of gains or losses included in income for the year ended December 31, 2009, attributable to unrealized gains or losses related to those assets and liabilities still held at year ended December 31, 2009.
  
























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-For-Sale-ForeignGovernmentBonds
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-For-Sale-CorporateSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-For-Sale-Asset-BackedSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-For-Sale-CommercialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 
 
FixedMaturitiesAvailable-For-Sale-ResidentialMortgage-BackedSecurities

 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
 
$
30
 
 
$
932
 
 
$
1,013
 
 
$
66
 
 
$
228
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
 



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
 



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
 
 
0
 
 
 
(99
) 
 
 
(696
) 
 
 
(28
) 
 
 
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
6
 
 
 
104
 
 
 
2,334
 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
1
 

 Net investment income
 
 
0
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
56
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
1
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, settlements
 
 
138
 
 
 
(511
) 
 
 
(1,591
) 
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
32
 

 Foreign currency translation
 
 
0
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
 
 
0
 
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
 
 
11
 
 
 
889
 
 
 
5,305
 
 
 
264
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
 
 
(138
) 
 
 
(406
) 
 
 
(72
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(158
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
 
$
47
 
 
$
902
 
 
$
6,363
 
 
$
305
 
 
$
104
 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
 



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
 



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
 
$
0
 
 
$
(103
) 
 
$
(695
) 
 
$
(30
) 
 
$
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
 
$
6
 
 
$
96
 
 
$
2,277
 
 
$
(8
) 
 
$
1
 

  389



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-ForeignGovernmentBonds

 
 
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-CorporateSecurities

 
 
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-Asset-BackedSecurities

 
 
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-CommercialMortgage-BackedSecurities

 
 
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-ResidentialMortgage-Backed
Securities
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
0
 
 
$
75
 
 
$
35
 
 
$
6
 
 
$
28
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
0
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
59
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
3
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, settlements
  
 
12
 
 
 
(72
) 
 
 
(68
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(4
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
229
 
 
 
266
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
(171
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
0
 
 
$
83
 
 
$
281
 
 
$
5
 
 
$
20
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
0
 
 
$
16
 
 
$
47
 
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
3
 
  
























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
TradingAccountAssetsSupportingInsuranceLiabilities-EquitySecurities
 
  
OtherTradingAccountAssets-CorporateSecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-Asset-BackedSecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-CommercialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets-ResidentialMortgage-BackedSecurities
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
1
 
  
$
38
 
 
$
30
 
 
$
2
 
 
$
3
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



  



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



  



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
2
 
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, settlements
  
 
0
 
  
 
6
 
 
 
827
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
0
 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
  
 
0
 
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
36
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
  
 
2
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
11
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
 
 
(791
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(3
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
3
 
  
$
34
 
 
$
97
 
 
$
27
 
 
$
12
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



  



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



  



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
2
 
  
$
1
 
 
$
(38
) 
 
$
(10
) 
 
$
0
 

  390



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
OtherTradingAccountAssets–EquitySecurities
 
 
OtherTradingAccountAssets–AllOtherActivity
 
 
EquitySecuritiesAvailable–For-Sale
 
 
CommercialMortgageand OtherLoans
 
 
OtherLong-termInvestments
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
19
 
 
$
1,304
 
 
$
325
 
 
$
56
 
 
$
1,015
 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
 
 
(338
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
(74
) 
 
 
5
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
1
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(81
) 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
74
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, settlements
  
 
0
 
 
 
(701
) 
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
155
 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
  
 
6
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(594
) 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
414
 
 
 
(2
) 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
24
 
 
$
297
 
 
$
393
 
 
$
338
 
 
$
498
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
 
$
(338
) 
 
$
(21
) 
 
$
(70
) 
 
$
5
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
2
 
 
$
3
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
(70
) 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
73
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
OtherAssets
 
 
SeparateAccountAssets(4)
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits
 
 
Long-termDebt
 
 
OtherLiabilities
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
26
 
 
$
19,780
 
 
$
(3,229
) 
 
$
(324
) 
 
$
(139
) 

 Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
3,313
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
77
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances
  
 
0
 
 
 
(7,368
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Included in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Net investment income
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, settlements
  
 
1
 
 
 
479
 
 
 
(139
) 
 
 
(429
) 
 
 
56
 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Other(1)
  
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
324
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers into Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
559
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 

 Transfers out of Level 3(2)
  
 
0
 
 
 
(398
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
 
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
27
 
 
$
13,052
 
 
$
(55
) 
 
$
(429
) 
 
$
(6
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those Level 3 assets and liabilities that were still held at the end of the
period(3):
  



 



 



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
3,208
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
77
 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances
  
$
0
 
 
$
(7,582
) 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
 
$
0
 
  


(1)
 
Other represents the impact of consolidation or deconsolidation of funds and reclassifications of certain assets between reporting categories. 
  391



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 


(2)
 
Transfers into or out of Level 3 are generally reported as the value as of the beginning of the quarter in which the transfer occurs. 


(3)
 
Unrealized gains or losses related to assets still held at the end of the period do not include amortization or accretion of premiums and discounts.



(4)
 
Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the
customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by the Company with respect to certain accounts. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in the
Company’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.    Transfers—Transfers into Level 3 for Fixed Maturities Available-for-Sale—Asset-Backed securities and Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities—Asset-Backed securities
include $4,583 million and $188 million, respectively for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the Company’s conclusion that the market for asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages was an inactive market.
Transfers into Level 3 for Fixed Maturities, Available-for-Sale—Commercial Mortgage-Backed securities for the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily the result of over-riding the third party pricing information downward with
internally-developed valuations for certain securities held in the Japanese insurance operations portfolio. Transfers into Level 3 for Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans for the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily due to downward credit
migration of these loans. The downgrade in loans has resulted in the utilization of higher credit spreads, that are internally-developed and not observable in the market place. This increase in credit spreads is now considered a significant input in
the fair value calculation for these loans. Transfers out of Level 3 for Other Trading Account Assets—Asset-Backed securities were primarily the result of the use of third party pricing for the securities purchased under the Federal
Reserve’s Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (“TALF”). In the first quarter of 2009, these assets were valued internally using a model.   
Other transfers out of Level 3 were typically due to the use of observable inputs in valuation methodologies as well as the utilization of
pricing service information for certain assets that the Company was able to validate. Other transfers into Level 3 were primarily the result of unobservable inputs utilized within valuation methodologies and the use of broker quotes (that could not
be validated) when previously, information from third party pricing services (that could be validated) was utilized. 
  392



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Derivative Fair Value Information    The following tables present the balance of derivative assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis, as of the date indicated, by primary underlying. These tables exclude embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host contract. The derivative assets and liabilities shown below are included in “Other trading
account assets,” “Other long-term investments” or “Other liabilities” in the tables presented previously in this note, under the headings “Assets and Liabilities by Hierarchy Level” and “Changes in Level 3
Assets and Liabilities.” The amounts in the Hierarchy Level columns below represent the gross fair value of derivative contracts prior to taking into account the netting effects of master netting agreements and cash collateral held with the
same counterparty. This netting impact is reflected in the netting column below, as well as in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.   
























 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Netting(1)
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Derivative assets:
  



  



  



  



 




 Interest Rate
  
$
10
  
  
$
12,383
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
 
  
 
$
12,398
  

 Currency
  
 
0
  
  
 
219
  
  
 
0
  
  



 
 
219
  

 Credit
  
 
0
  
  
 
56
  
  
 
1
  
  



 
 
57
  

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
  
 
562
  
  
 
0
  
  



 
 
562
  

 Equity
  
 
149
  
  
 
365
  
  
 
83
  
  



 
 
597
  

 Netting(1)
  



  



  



  
 
(11,222
) 
 
 
(11,222
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative assets
  
$
159
  
  
$
13,585
  
  
$
89
  
  
$
(11,222
) 
 
$
2,611
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Derivative liabilities:
  



  



  



 




 Interest Rate
  
$
9
  
  
$
6,587
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
 
  
 
$
6,602
  

 Currency
  
 
0
  
  
 
297
  
  
 
0
  
  



 
 
297
  

 Credit
  
 
0
  
  
 
130
  
  
 
0
  
  



 
 
130
  

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
  
 
928
  
  
 
0
  
  



 
 
928
  

 Equity
  
 
0
  
  
 
246
  
  
 
0
  
  



 
 
246
  

 Netting(1)
  



  



  



  
 
(7,854
) 
 
 
(7,854
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative liabilities
  
$
9
  
  
$
8,188
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
(7,854
) 
 
$
349
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
  
As of December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Netting(1)
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Derivative assets:
  



  



  



  



 




 Interest Rate
  
$
17
 
  
$
5,268
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
 
  
 
$
5,285
 

 Currency
  
 
7
 
  
 
1,054
 
  
 
0
 
  



 
 
1,061
 

 Credit
  
 
0
 
  
 
91
 
  
 
0
 
  



 
 
91
 

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
 
  
 
544
 
  
 
0
 
  



 
 
544
 

 Equity
  
 
1
 
  
 
392
 
  
 
126
 
  



 
 
519
 

 Commodity
  
 
144
 
  
 
235
 
  
 
0
 
  



 
 
379
 

 Netting (1)
  



  



  



  
 
(5,904
) 
 
 
(5,904
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative assets
  
$
169
 
  
$
7,584
 
  
$
126
 
  
$
(5,904
) 
 
$
1,975
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Derivative liabilities:
  



  



  



 




 Interest Rate
  
$
18
 
  
$
4,038
 
  
$
12
 
  
$
 
  
 
$
4,068
 

 Currency
  
 
0
 
  
 
1,108
 
  
 
0
 
  



 
 
1,108
 

 Credit
  
 
0
 
  
 
116
 
  
 
0
 
  



 
 
116
 

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
 
  
 
1,068
 
  
 
0
 
  



 
 
1,068
 

 Equity
  
 
0
 
  
 
174
 
  
 
0
 
  



 
 
174
 

 Commodity
  
 
0
 
  
 
314
 
  
 
0
 
  



 
 
314
 

 Netting (1)
  



  



  



  
 
(5,712
) 
 
 
(5,712
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total derivative liabilities
  
$
18
 
  
$
6,818
 
  
$
12
 
  
$
(5,712
) 
 
$
1,136
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
“Netting” amounts represent cash collateral of $3,369 million and $192 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and the impact of
offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty. 
  393



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Changes in Level 3 derivative assets and liabilities—The following tables
provide a summary of the changes in fair value of Level 3 derivative assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2011, as well as the portion of gains or losses included in income for the year ended December 31, 2011,
attributable to unrealized gains or losses related to those assets and liabilities still held at December 31, 2011.   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Derivative Assets–Equity
 
 
DerivativeAssets–Credit

 
 
DerivativeLiabilities–Interest Rate
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
126
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
(12
) 

 Total gains or (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
11
  

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Settlements
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Transfers into Level 3(1)
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Transfers out of Level 3(1)
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
83
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period:
  



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
(29
) 
 
$
1
  
 
$
11
  

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Derivative Assets–Equity
 
 
DerivativeLiabilities–Credit
 
 
DerivativeLiabilities–Interest Rate
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Fair Value, beginning of period
  
$
288
  
 
$
(6
) 
 
$
(4
) 

 Total gains or (losses) (realized/unrealized):
  



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
(80
) 
 
 
6
  
 
 
(8
) 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements
  
 
(82
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Transfers into Level 3(1)
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Transfers out of Level 3(1)
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair Value, end of period
  
$
126
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
(12
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrealized gains (losses) for the period relating to those level 3 assets that were still held at the end of the
period:
  



 



 




 Included in earnings:
  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
$
(80
) 
 
$
6
  
 
$
(8
) 

 Asset management fees and other income
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
  


(1)
 
Transfers into or out of Level 3 are generally reported as the value as of the beginning of the quarter in which the transfer occurs. 
  Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements—Certain
assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. Nonrecurring fair value adjustments resulted in $7 million of losses being recorded for the year ended December 31, 2011 on certain commercial mortgage loans. The
carrying value of these loans as of December 31, 2011 was $110 million. Similar losses on commercial mortgage loans of $73 million and $200 million were recorded for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The adjustments
were based on either discounted cash flows utilizing market rates or the fair value of the underlying real estate collateral and were classified as Level 3 in the hierarchy. The fair value measurements were classified as Level 3 in the valuation
hierarchy. The inputs utilized for these valuations are pricing indicators from the whole loan market, which the Company considers its principal market for these loans. 
  394



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Impairments of $8 million, $6 million and $55 million were recorded for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on certain cost method investments. In addition, impairments of $2 million, $4 million and $12 million were recorded for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on
certain equity method investments. These fair value adjustments were based on inputs classified as Level 3 in the valuation hierarchy. The inputs utilized were primarily discounted estimated future cash flows and, where appropriate, valuations
provided by the general partners taken into consideration with deal and management fee expenses.    Impairments of $9 million, $6 million and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were recorded for mortgage servicing rights. The impairments were based on
internal models and were classified as Level 3 in the hierarchy. In addition, impairments of $22 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, respectively, were recorded for real estate investments, some of which were
classified as discontinued operations. The impairments were based on appraisal values or purchase agreements and were classified as Level 3 in the hierarchy.   
Fair Value Option—The following table presents information regarding changes in fair values recorded in earnings for
commercial mortgage loans, other long-term investments and other liabilities, where the fair value option has been elected.   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Assets:
  



  



  




 Commercial mortgage loans:
  



  



  




 Changes in instrument-specific credit risk
  
$
1
  
  
$
6
  
  
$
(69
) 

 Other changes in fair value
  
 
4
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
0
  

 Other long-term investments:
  



  



  




 Changes in fair value
  
 
(5
) 
  
 
18
  
  
 
0
  

 Liabilities:
  



  



  




 Other liabilities:
  



  



  




 Changes in fair value
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
   Changes in fair value are
reflected in “Realized investment gains (losses), net” for commercial mortgage loans and “Asset management fees and other income” for other long-term investments and other liabilities. Changes in fair value due to
instrument-specific credit risk are estimated based on changes in credit spreads and quality ratings for the period reported.   
Interest income on commercial mortgage loans is included in net investment income. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, the Company recorded $12 million, $22 million and $37 million of interest income, respectively, on these fair value option loans. Interest income on these loans is recorded based on the effective interest rates as determined at the closing of
the loan.    The fair values and aggregate
contractual principal amounts of commercial mortgage loans, for which the fair value option has been elected, were $603 million and $598 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, and $364 million and $393 million, respectively, as
December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, such loans that were in nonaccrual status had fair values of $21 million and aggregate contractual principal amounts of $23 million. None of the loans where the fair value option has been elected
are more than 90 days past due and still accruing.   
The fair value of other long-term investments were $366 million and $258 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
   The fair value and aggregate contractual
principal amounts of other liabilities, for which the fair value option has been elected, were $282 million and $294 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. 
  395



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments    The Company is required by U.S. GAAP to disclose the fair value of certain financial instruments including
those that are not carried at fair value. For the following financial instruments the carrying amount equals or approximates fair value: fixed maturities classified as available-for-sale, trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities,
other trading account assets, equity securities, securities purchased under agreements to resell, short-term investments, cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income, separate account assets, investment contracts included in separate
account liabilities, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, and cash collateral for loaned securities, as well as certain items recorded within other assets and other liabilities such as broker-dealer related receivables and payables. See
Note 21 for a discussion of derivative instruments.   
The following table discloses the Company’s financial instruments where the carrying amounts and fair values may differ: 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
FairValue
 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Assets:
  



  



  



  




 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  
$
5,107
  
  
$
5,354
  
  
$
5,226
  
  
$
5,477
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans(1)
  
 
35,431
  
  
 
37,741
  
  
 
31,831
  
  
 
33,129
  

 Policy loans
  
 
11,559
  
  
 
14,858
  
  
 
10,667
  
  
 
12,781
  

 Liabilities:
  



  



  



  




 Policyholders’ account balances—investment contracts
  
$
102,245
  
  
$
103,184
  
  
$
77,254
  
  
$
78,757
  

 Short-term and long-term debt(1)
  
 
26,958
  
  
 
28,174
  
  
 
25,635
  
  
 
27,094
  

 Debt of consolidated VIEs(1)
  
 
524
  
  
 
493
  
  
 
382
  
  
 
265
  

 Bank customer liabilities
  
 
1,730
  
  
 
1,745
  
  
 
1,752
  
  
 
1,773
  
  


(1)
 
Includes items carried at fair value under the fair value option.   
The fair values presented above for those financial instruments where the carrying amounts and fair values may differ have been determined
by using available market information and by applying market valuation methodologies, as described in more detail below.   
Fixed Maturities, held-to-maturity   
The fair values of public fixed maturity securities are generally based on prices from third party pricing services, which are reviewed to
validate reasonability. However, for certain public fixed maturity securities and investments in private placement fixed maturity securities, this information is either not available or not reliable. For these public fixed maturity securities the
fair value is based on non-binding broker quotes, if available, or determined using a discounted cash flow model or internally-developed values. For private fixed maturities fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow model, which utilizes
a discount rate based upon the average of spread surveys collected from private market intermediaries who are active in both primary and secondary transactions and takes into account, among other factors, the credit quality and industry sector of
the issuer and the reduced liquidity associated with private placements. In determining the fair value of certain fixed maturity securities, the discounted cash flow model may also use unobservable inputs, which reflect the Company’s own
assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the security.    Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans    The fair value of commercial mortgage loans is primarily based upon the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the appropriate U.S. Treasury rate or Foreign Government Bond rate
(for non-U.S. dollar-denominated loans) adjusted for appropriate credit spread for similar quality loans. The quality ratings for these loans, a primary determinant of the credit spread and a significant component of the pricing

  396



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

input, are based upon an internally-developed methodology. The internally derived credit spreads take into account public corporate bond spreads of similar quality and maturity, public commercial
mortgage-backed securities spreads, third-party mortgage loan survey spreads and other relevant market information such as pricing indications from market participants on new originations, and where applicable adjustments for property types and
locations.    The fair value of certain commercial
mortgage loans, for which a discounted cash flow model is not appropriate, is based on internally-developed values that incorporate various factors, including the terms of the loans, the principal exit strategies for the loans, prevailing interest
rates, and credit risk.    The fair value of the
other loans, which include collateralized and uncollateralized loans, is primarily based upon the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the appropriate U.S. Treasury rate or Foreign Government Bond rate (for non-U.S.
dollar-denominated loans) or other observable inputs, such as local market swap rates and credit default swap spreads, adjusted for an appropriate credit spread and liquidity premium. The credit spread and liquidity premium are a significant
component of the pricing inputs, and are based upon an internally-developed methodology, which takes into account, among other factors, the credit quality of the loans, the property type of the collateral, the weighted average coupon, and the
weighted average life of the loans.    Policy Loans
   The fair value of U.S. insurance policy
loans is calculated using a discounted cash flow model based upon current U.S. Treasury rates and historical loan repayment patterns, while Japanese insurance policy loans use the risk-free proxy based on the Yen LIBOR. For group corporate-, bank-
and trust-owned life insurance contracts and group universal life contracts, the fair value of the policy loans is the amount due, excluding interest, as of the reporting date. 
  Investment Contracts—Policyholders’ Account Balances
   Only the portion of policyholders’
account balances related to products that are investment contracts (those without significant mortality or morbidity risk) are reflected in the table above. For fixed deferred annuities, single premium endowments, payout annuities and other similar
contracts without life contingencies, fair values are derived using discounted projected cash flows based on interest rates that are representative of the Company’s financial strength ratings, and hence reflect the Company’s own
non-performance risk. For guaranteed investment contracts, funding agreements, structured settlements without life contingencies and other similar products, fair values are derived using discounted projected cash flows based on interest rates being
offered for similar contracts with maturities consistent with those of the contracts being valued. For those balances that can be withdrawn by the customer at any time without prior notice or penalty, the fair value is the amount estimated to be
payable to the customer as of the reporting date, which is generally the carrying value. For defined contribution and defined benefit contracts and certain other products the fair value is the market value of the assets supporting the liabilities.
   Debt 
  The fair value of short-term and long-term debt, as well as
debt of consolidated VIEs, is generally determined by either prices obtained from independent pricing services, which are validated by the Company, or discounted cash flow models. With the exception of the debt of consolidated VIEs, these fair
values consider the Company’s own non-performance risk. Discounted cash flow models predominately use market observable inputs such as the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for debt and financial instruments with similar terms
and remaining maturities. For commercial paper issuances and other debt with a maturity of less than 90 days, the carrying value approximates fair value. Debt of consolidated VIEs is reflected within “Other liabilities.” 
  397



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
A portion of the senior secured notes issued by Prudential Holdings, LLC (the “IHC
debt”) is insured by a third-party financial guarantee insurance policy. The effect of the third-party credit enhancement is not included in the fair value measurement of the IHC debt and the methodologies used to determine fair value consider
the Company’s own non-performance risk.    Bank Customer
Liabilities    The carrying amount for
certain deposits (interest and non-interest demand, savings and money market accounts) approximates or equals their fair values. Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies
interest rates being offered on certificates at the reporting dates to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities. Bank customer liabilities are reflected within “Other liabilities.” 
 
21.    DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 
  Types of Derivative Instruments and Derivative
Strategies used in a non-dealer or broker capacity   
Interest Rate Contracts   
Interest rate swaps are used by the Company to manage interest rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities
(including duration mismatches) and to hedge against changes in the value of assets it anticipates acquiring and other anticipated transactions and commitments. Swaps may be attributed to specific assets or liabilities or may be used on a portfolio
basis. Under interest rate swaps, the Company agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed upon notional principal amount.
Generally, no cash is exchanged at the outset of the contract and no principal payments are made by either party. These transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty
at each due date.    Exchange-traded futures and
options are used by the Company to reduce risks from changes in interest rates, to alter mismatches between the duration of assets in a portfolio and the duration of liabilities supported by those assets, and to hedge against changes in the value of
securities it owns or anticipates acquiring or selling. In exchange-traded futures transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the values of which are determined by the values of underlying referenced
investments, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the difference in the daily market values of those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures and options with regulated futures commission’s
merchants who are members of a trading exchange.    Equity
Contracts    Equity index options are
contracts which will settle in cash based on differentials in the underlying indices at the time of exercise and the strike price. The Company uses combinations of purchases and sales of equity index options to hedge the effects of adverse changes
in equity indices within a predetermined range. These hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting.    Foreign Exchange Contracts    Currency derivatives, including exchange-traded currency futures and options, currency forwards and currency swaps, are used by the Company to reduce risks from changes in currency exchange rates with
respect to investments denominated in foreign currencies that the Company either holds or intends to acquire or sell. The Company also uses currency forwards to hedge the currency risk associated with net investments in foreign operations and
anticipated earnings of its foreign operations. 
  398



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Under currency forwards, the Company agrees with other parties to deliver a specified
amount of an identified currency at a specified future date. Typically, the price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at the specified future date. As noted above, the Company uses currency forwards to
mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on U.S. dollar equivalent earnings generated by certain of its non-U.S. businesses, primarily its international insurance and investments operations. The Company executes forward sales of the
hedged currency in exchange for U.S. dollars at a specified exchange rate. The maturities of these forwards correspond with the future periods in which the non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings are expected to be generated. These earnings hedges do
not qualify for hedge accounting.    Under currency
swaps, the Company agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between one currency and another at an exchange rate and calculated by reference to an agreed principal amount. Generally, the principal amount of each
currency is exchanged at the beginning and termination of the currency swap by each party. These transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty for payments made in
the same currency at each due date.    Credit Contracts
   Credit derivatives are used by the
Company to enhance the return on the Company’s investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments. With credit derivatives the Company sells credit protection on an identified
name, or a basket of names in a first to default structure, and in return receives a quarterly premium. With single name credit default derivatives, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the
referenced name’s public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With first to default baskets, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names
in the basket. If there is an event of default by the referenced name or one of the referenced names in a basket, as defined by the agreement, then the Company is obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in
return the referenced defaulted security or similar security. See credit derivatives written section for discussion of guarantees related to credit derivatives written. In addition to selling credit protection the Company has purchased credit
protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in the Company’s investment portfolio.   
Other Contracts   
TBAs. The Company uses “to be announced” (“TBA”) forward contracts to gain exposure to the investment
risk and return of mortgage-backed securities. TBA transactions can help the Company to achieve better diversification and to enhance the return on its investment portfolio. TBAs can provide a more liquid and cost effective method of achieving these
goals than purchasing or selling individual mortgage-backed pools. Typically, the price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future date. Additionally, pursuant to the Company’s
mortgage dollar roll program, TBAs or mortgage-backed securities are transferred to counterparties with a corresponding agreement to repurchase them at a future date. These transactions do not qualify as secured borrowings and are accounted for
as derivatives.    Loan
Commitments. In its mortgage operations, the Company enters into commitments to fund commercial mortgage loans at specified interest rates and other applicable terms within specified periods of time. These commitments are legally
binding agreements to extend credit to a counterparty. Loan commitments for loans that will be held for sale are recognized as derivatives and recorded at fair value. The determination of the fair value of loan commitments accounted for as
derivatives considers various factors including, among others, terms of the related loan, the intended exit strategy for the loans based upon either securitization valuation models or investor purchase commitments, prevailing interest rates,
origination income or expense, and the value of service rights. Loan commitments that relate to the origination of mortgage loans that will be held for investment are not accounted for as derivatives and accordingly are not recognized in the
Company’s financial statements. See Note 15 for a further discussion of these loan commitments. 
  399



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Embedded Derivatives. The Company sells variable annuity products,
which may include guaranteed benefit features that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. These embedded derivatives are marked to market through “Realized investment gains (losses), net” based on the change in value of the underlying
contractual guarantees, which are determined using valuation models. The Company maintains a portfolio of derivative instruments that is intended to economically hedge the risks related to the above products’ features. The derivatives may
include, but are not limited to equity options, total return swaps, interest rate swap options, caps, floors, and other instruments. In addition, some variable annuity products feature an automatic rebalancing element to minimize risks inherent in
the Company’s guarantees which reduces the need for hedges.    The Company invests in fixed maturities that, in addition to a stated coupon, provide a return based upon the results of an underlying portfolio of fixed income investments and related investment
activity. The Company accounts for these investments as available-for-sale fixed maturities containing embedded derivatives. Such embedded derivatives are marked to market through “Realized investment gains (losses), net,” based upon the
change in value of the underlying portfolio.   
Synthetic Guarantees. The Company sells fee-based synthetic guaranteed investment contracts which include investment-only,
stable value contracts, to qualified pension plans. The assets are owned by the trustees of such plans, who invest the assets under the terms of investment guidelines agreed to with the Company. The contracts contain a guarantee of a minimum rate of
return on participant balances supported by the underlying assets, and a guarantee of liquidity to meet certain participant-initiated plan cash flow requirements. These contracts are accounted for as derivatives, recorded at fair value and
classified as interest rate derivatives. 
  400



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The table below provides a summary of the gross notional amount and fair value of
derivatives contracts used in a non-dealer or broker capacity, excluding embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host, by the primary underlying. Many derivative instruments contain multiple underlyings. The fair value amounts
below represent the gross fair value of derivative contracts prior to taking into account the netting effects of master netting agreements and cash collateral held with the same counterparty. This netting impact results in total derivative assets of
$2,611 million and $1,975 million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and total derivative liabilities of $349 million and $1,136 million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively,
reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.   




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 Primary Underlying/
Instrument Type
  
NotionalAmount
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
NotionalAmount
 
  
Fair Value
 

  
  
Assets
 
  
Liabilities
 
  
  
Assets
 
  
Liabilities
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Qualifying Hedges:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Interest Rate
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Interest Rate Swaps
  
$
5,048
  
  
$
62
  
  
$
(468
) 
  
$
6,436
  
  
$
109
  
  
$
(428
) 

 Foreign Currency
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign Currency Forwards
  
 
753
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
(4
) 
  
 
1,087
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
(6
) 

 Currency/Interest Rate
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign Currency Swaps
  
 
4,807
  
  
 
227
  
  
 
(438
) 
  
 
3,521
  
  
 
83
  
  
 
(449
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Qualifying Hedges
  
$
10,608
  
  
$
295
  
  
$
(910
) 
  
$
11,044
  
  
$
217
  
  
$
(883
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Non-Qualifying Hedges:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Interest Rate
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Interest Rate Swaps
  
$
107,560
  
  
$
9,357
  
  
$
(3,084
) 
  
$
93,033
  
  
$
3,712
  
  
$
(2,102
) 

 Interest Rate Futures
  
 
6,192
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
(9
) 
  
 
6,834
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
(18
) 

 Interest Rate Options
  
 
601
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
(3
) 
  
 
655
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
(3
) 

 Interest Rate Forwards
  
 
2,139
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
159
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Synthetic GIC’s
  
 
46,844
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
24,019
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
(1
) 

 Foreign Currency
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign Currency Forwards
  
 
16,228
  
  
 
176
  
  
 
(335
) 
  
 
10,645
  
  
 
219
  
  
 
(396
) 

 Foreign Currency Options
  
 
98
  
  
 
23
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Currency/Interest Rate
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign Currency Swaps
  
 
5,390
  
  
 
224
  
  
 
(399
) 
  
 
5,047
  
  
 
192
  
  
 
(381
) 

 Credit
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Credit Default Swaps
  
 
3,298
  
  
 
58
  
  
 
(130
) 
  
 
3,004
  
  
 
91
  
  
 
(114
) 

 Equity
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Equity Futures
  
 
2
  
  
 
149
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
0
  

 Equity Options
  
 
14,951
  
  
 
415
  
  
 
(66
) 
  
 
22,622
  
  
 
527
  
  
 
(23
) 

 Total Return Swaps
  
 
6,797
  
  
 
34
  
  
 
(175
) 
  
 
3,381
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
(152
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Non-Qualifying Hedges
  
$
210,100
  
  
$
10,469
  
  
$
(4,201
) 
  
$
169,400
  
  
$
4,776
  
  
$
(3,190
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Derivatives(1)
  
$
220,708
  
  
$
10,764
  
  
$
(5,111
) 
  
$
180,444
  
  
$
4,993
  
  
$
(4,073
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Excludes embedded derivatives which contain multiple underlyings. The fair value of these embedded derivatives was a net liability of $3,131 million as of
December 31, 2011 and a net liability of $70 million as of December 31, 2010, included in “Future policy benefits” and “Fixed maturities, available-for-sale.” 
  Cash Flow, Fair Value and Net Investment Hedges 
  The primary derivative instruments used by the Company in
its fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedge accounting relationships are interest rate swaps, currency swaps and currency forwards. These instruments are only designated for hedge accounting in instances where the appropriate criteria are
met. The Company does not use futures, options, credit, equity or embedded derivatives in any of its fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge accounting relationships. 
  401



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The following table provides the financial statement classification and impact of
derivatives used in qualifying and non-qualifying hedge relationships, excluding the offset of the hedged item in an effective hedge relationship:   




























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
RealizedInvestmentGains/(Losses)
 
 
NetInvestmentIncome
 
 
OtherIncome
 
  
InterestExpense
 
 
InterestCreditedTo Policyholders’AccountBalances
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Qualifying Hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Fair value hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest Rate
  
$
(122
) 
 
$
(113
) 
 
$
0
  
  
$
8
  
 
$
56
  
 
$
0
  

 Currency
  
 
28
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fair value hedges
  
 
(94
) 
 
 
(118
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
8
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flow hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(4
) 

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
22
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
180
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cash flow hedges
  
 
0
  
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
22
  
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
176
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net investment hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Currency(2)
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
6
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(6
) 

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(23
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net investment hedges
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
6
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(29
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-qualifying hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest Rate
  
 
5,133
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Currency
  
 
125
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Credit
  
 
(38
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity
  
 
(318
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Embedded Derivatives
  
 
(2,579
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-qualifying hedges
  
 
2,319
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,216
  
 
$
(132
) 
 
$
28
  
  
$
(11
) 
 
$
55
  
 
$
147
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  402



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
RealizedInvestmentGains/(Losses)
 
 
NetInvestmentIncome
 
 
OtherIncome
 
  
InterestExpense
 
 
InterestCreditedTo Policyholders’AccountBalances
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Qualifying Hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Fair value hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest Rate 
  
$
(71
) 
 
$
(148
) 
 
$
0
  
  
$
15
  
 
$
68
  
 
$
0
  

 Currency
  
 
100
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fair value hedges
  
 
29
  
 
 
(153
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
15
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flow hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(12
) 

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
10
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
68
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cash flow hedges
  
 
0
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
10
  
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
56
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net investment hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Currency(2)
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(71
) 

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(129
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net investment hedges
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(200
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-qualifying hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest Rate
  
 
1,952
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Currency
  
 
(205
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Credit
  
 
(101
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity
  
 
(1,115
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Embedded Derivatives
  
 
637
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-qualifying hedges
  
 
1,151
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,180
  
 
$
(162
) 
 
$
10
  
  
$
(4
) 
 
$
65
  
 
$
(144
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  403



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 




























 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
RealizedInvestmentGains/(Losses)
 
 
NetInvestmentIncome
 
 
OtherIncome
 
  
InterestExpense
 
 
InterestCreditedTo Policyholders’AccountBalances
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(1)
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Qualifying Hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Fair value hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest Rate
  
$
338
  
 
$
(158
) 
 
$
0
  
  
$
5
  
 
$
70
  
 
$
0
  

 Currency
  
 
8
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total fair value hedges
  
 
346
  
 
 
(158
) 
 
 
2
  
  
 
5
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flow hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
61
  

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
20
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(151
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cash flow hedges
  
 
0
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
20
  
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(90
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net investment hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Currency(2)
  
 
36
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(80
) 

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(61
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net investment hedges
  
 
36
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(141
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non- qualifying hedges
  



 



 



  



 



 




 Interest Rate
  
 
(2,086
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Currency
  
 
(89
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Currency/Interest Rate
  
 
(212
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Credit
  
 
72
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity
  
 
(1,376
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Embedded Derivatives
  
 
3,531
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-qualifying hedges
  
 
(160
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
222
  
 
$
(167
) 
 
$
22
  
  
$
(12
) 
 
$
63
  
 
$
(231
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Amounts deferred in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” 


(2)
 
Relates to the sale of equity method investments.   
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the ineffective portion of derivatives accounted for using hedge accounting was
not material to the Company’s results of operations and there were no material amounts reclassified into earnings relating to instances in which the Company discontinued cash flow hedge accounting because the forecasted transaction did not
occur by the anticipated date or within the additional time period permitted by the authoritative guidance for the accounting for derivatives and hedging. In addition, there were no instances in which the Company discontinued fair value hedge
accounting due to a hedged firm commitment no longer qualifying as a fair value hedge.    Presented below is a roll forward of current period cash flow hedges in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” before taxes: 
 








 
  
(in millions)
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
  
$
(227
) 

 Net deferred gains (losses) on cash flow hedges from January 1 to December 31, 2009
  
 
(132
) 

 Amount reclassified into current period earnings
  
 
42
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
  
 
(317
) 

 Net deferred gains (losses) on cash flow hedges from January 1 to December 31, 2010
  
 
30
 

 Amount reclassified into current period earnings
  
 
26
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
  
 
(261
) 

 Net deferred gains (losses) on cash flow hedges from January 1 to December 31, 2011
  
 
147
 

 Amount reclassified into current period earnings
  
 
28
 


  
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
  
$
(86
) 


  
  
  
 

  404



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Using December 31, 2011 values, it is anticipated that a pre-tax loss of
approximately $15 million will be reclassified from “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” to earnings during the subsequent twelve months ending December 31, 2012, offset by amounts pertaining to the hedged items. As of
December 31, 2011, the Company does not have any qualifying cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions other than those related to the variability of the payment or receipt of interest or foreign currency amounts on existing financial
instruments. The maximum length of time for which these variable cash flows are hedged is 19 years. Income amounts deferred in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” as a result of cash flow hedges are included in “Net
unrealized investment gains (losses)” in the Consolidated Statements of Equity.    For effective net investment hedges, the amounts, before applicable taxes, recorded in the cumulative translation adjustment account within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” were
$(102) million in 2011, $(73) million in 2010 and $127 million in 2009.    Credit Derivatives Written    The following table sets forth the Company’s exposure from credit derivatives where the Company has written credit protection, by NAIC rating of the underlying credits as of December 31, 2011
and 2010. The Company’s maximum amount at risk under these credit derivatives listed below assumes the value of the underlying referenced securities become worthless. These credit derivatives generally have maturities of less than 10 years. The
table excludes a credit derivative related to surplus notes issued by a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance and embedded derivatives contained in externally-managed investments in the European market. 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Single Name
 
  
Single Name
 

 NAIC Designation
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Notional
 
  
Fair value
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 1
  
$
795
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
295
  
  
$
3
  

 2
  
 
25
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
820
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
320
  
  
 
3
  

 3
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 4
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 5
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 6
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
820
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
320
  
  
$
3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   The following table sets
forth the composition of the Company’s credit derivatives where the Company has written credit protection by industry category as of the dates indicated.   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

Industry
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Notional
 
  
Fair Value
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Corporate Securities:
  



  



  



  




 Manufacturing
  
$
40
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
40
 
  
$
0
 

 Utilities
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 

 Finance
  
 
500
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
0
 

 Services
  
 
25
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
0
 

 Energy
  
 
20
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
20
 
  
 
0
 

 Transportation
  
 
25
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
0
 

 Retail and Wholesale
  
 
20
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
20
 
  
 
0
 

 Food/Beverage
  
 
55
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
55
 
  
 
1
 

 Aerospace/Defense
  
 
50
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
50
 
  
 
0
 

 Chemical
  
 
40
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
40
 
  
 
1
 

 Other
  
 
45
 
  
 
0
 
  
 
45
 
  
 
1
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Credit Derivatives
  
$
820
 
  
$
3
 
  
$
320
 
  
$
3
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  405



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The Company entered into a credit derivative that will require the Company to make
certain payments in the event of deterioration in the value of the surplus notes issued by a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance. The notional of this credit derivative is $500 million and the fair value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 was a
liability of $77 million and $26 million, respectively. No collateral was pledged in either period.    The Company holds certain externally-managed investments in the European market which contain embedded derivatives whose fair value are primarily driven by changes in credit spreads. These investments are
medium-term notes that are collateralized by investment portfolios primarily consisting of investment grade European fixed income securities, including corporate bonds and asset-backed securities, and derivatives, as well as varying degrees of
leverage. The notes have a stated coupon and provide a return based on the performance of the underlying portfolios and the level of leverage. The Company invests in these notes to earn a coupon through maturity, consistent with its investment
purpose for other debt securities. The notes are accounted for under U.S. GAAP as available-for-sale fixed maturity securities with bifurcated embedded derivatives (total return swaps). Changes in the value of the fixed maturity securities are
reported in Equity under the heading “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)” and changes in the market value of the embedded total return swaps are included in current period earnings in “Realized investment gains (losses),
net.” The Company’s maximum exposure to loss from these investments was $664 million and $754 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  In addition to writing credit protection, the Company has
purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in the Company’s investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $1.978 billion and $2.184 billion of outstanding
notional amounts, respectively, reported at fair value as an asset of $2 million and an asset of less than $1 million, respectively.   
Types of Derivative Instruments and Derivative Strategies used in a dealer or broker capacity 
  Futures, forwards and options contracts, and swap
agreements, were also used in a derivative dealer or broker capacity in the Company’s commodities operations, prior to the sale of this business to Jeffries on July 1, 2011, to facilitate transactions of clients, hedge proprietary trading
activities and as a means of risk management. These derivatives allowed the Company to structure transactions to manage its exposure to commodities and securities prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Risk exposures were managed through
diversification, by controlling position sizes and by entering into offsetting positions.    The fair value of the Company’s derivative contracts used in a derivative dealer or broker capacity were reported on a net-by-counterparty basis in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position when management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting agreement.   
Realized and unrealized gains and losses from marking-to-market the derivatives used in proprietary positions were recognized on a trade
date basis and reported in “Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes. The pre-tax amounts reported in “Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes” for these derivatives were gains of $63 million for 2011 and $97
million for 2010.    Credit Risk 
  The Company is exposed to credit-related losses in the event
of non-performance by counterparties to financial derivative transactions. The Company manages credit risk by entering into derivative transactions with highly rated major international financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties,
and by obtaining collateral where appropriate. Additionally, limits are set on single party credit exposures which are subject to periodic management review.   
The credit exposure of the Company’s over-the-counter (OTC) derivative transactions is represented by the contracts with a positive
fair value (market value) at the reporting date. To reduce credit exposures, the Company 
  406



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

seeks to (i) enter into OTC derivative transactions pursuant to master agreements that provide for a netting of payments and receipts with a single counterparty (ii) enter into
agreements that allow the use of credit support annexes (CSAs), which are bilateral rating-sensitive agreements that require collateral postings at established threshold levels. Likewise, the Company effects exchange-traded futures and options
transactions through regulated exchanges and these transactions are settled on a daily basis, thereby reducing credit risk exposure in the event of non-performance by counterparties to such financial instruments. 
  Under fair value measurements, the Company incorporates the
market’s perception of its own and the counterparty’s non-performance risk in determining the fair value of the portion of its OTC derivative assets and liabilities that are uncollateralized. Credit spreads are applied to the derivative
fair values on a net basis by counterparty. To reflect the Company’s own credit spread a proxy based on relevant debt spreads is applied to OTC derivative net liability positions. Similarly, the Company’s counterparty’s credit spread
is applied to OTC derivative net asset positions.   
Certain of the Company’s derivative agreements with some of its counterparties contain credit-risk related triggers. If the
Company’s credit rating were to fall below a certain level, the counterparties to the derivative instruments could request termination at the then fair value of the derivative or demand immediate full collateralization on derivative instruments
in net liability positions. If a downgrade occurred and the derivative positions were terminated, the Company anticipates it would be able to replace the derivative positions with other counterparties in the normal course of business. The aggregate
fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position were $148 million as of December 31, 2011. In the normal course of business the Company has posted collateral related to
these instruments of $132 million as of December 31, 2011. If the credit-risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements had been triggered on December 31, 2011, the Company estimates that it would be required to post a
maximum of $16 million of additional collateral to its counterparties.   
22.    SEGMENT INFORMATION 
  Segments 
  The Company has organized its principal operations into the
Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. Within the Financial Services Businesses, the Company operates through three divisions, which together encompass six reportable segments. Businesses that are not sufficiently material to
warrant separate disclosure and divested businesses are included in Corporate and Other operations within the Financial Services Businesses. Collectively, the businesses that comprise the three operating divisions and Corporate and Other are
referred to as the Financial Services Businesses.   
U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division
consists of the Individual Annuities, Retirement, and Asset Management segments. The Individual Annuities segment manufactures and distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to the U.S. mass affluent market. The Retirement
segment manufactures and distributes products and provides administrative services for qualified and non-qualified retirement plans and offers guaranteed investment contracts, funding agreements, institutional and retail notes, structured settlement
annuities and group annuities. The Asset Management segment provides a broad array of investment management and advisory services by means of institutional portfolio management, mutual funds, asset securitization activity and other structured
products, and strategic investments. These products and services are provided to the public and private marketplace, as well as to other segments of the Company. 
  U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division. The
U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division consists of the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The Individual Life segment manufactures and distributes individual variable life, term life and universal life insurance products
primarily to the U.S. mass middle, mass affluent and affluent markets. The Group Insurance segment manufactures and distributes a full 
  407



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, long-term care and group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in
connection with employee and membership benefit plans.    International Insurance Division. The International Insurance division consists of the International Insurance segment, which manufactures and distributes individual life insurance, retirement and
related products to the mass affluent and affluent markets in Japan, Korea and other foreign countries through its Life Planner operations. In addition, similar products are offered to the broad middle income market across Japan through Life
Advisors, the proprietary distribution channel of the Company’s Gibraltar Life operation.    In February 2010, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell Prudential Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. and Prudential Asset Management Co., Ltd, which together comprise the
Company’s Korean asset management operations. As a result, the Company has reflected the results of its Korean asset management operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented. This transaction closed on June 1, 2010.
   On February 1, 2011, the Company completed
the acquisition from AIG of the Star and Edison Businesses pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 between Prudential Financial and AIG. All acquired businesses are in Japan and their results are included with the
Company’s Gibraltar Life operations. The Star and Edison Businesses primarily distribute individual life insurance, fixed annuities and certain accident and health products with fixed benefits through captive agents, independent agents, and
banks. The addition of these operations to the Company’s existing businesses increases its scale in the Japanese insurance market and provides complementary distribution opportunities.    On April 6, 2011, the Company entered into a stock and asset purchase agreement to sell all of the issued
and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company’s subsidiaries that conduct its Global Commodities Business and certain assets that are primarily used in connection with the Global Commodities Business. This sale was completed on
July 1, 2011. As a result, the Company has reflected the results of the Global Commodities Business previously reported in the International Investments segment as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In addition, the remaining
business activities previously reported as the International Investments segment have been reclassified and included in the International Insurance segment.   
Corporate and Other. Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after allocations to business segments, and divested
businesses. Corporate operations consist primarily of: (1) investment returns on capital that is not deployed in any business segments; (2) returns from investments not allocated to business segments, including debt-financed investment
portfolios, and certain strategic joint venture investments, as well as tax credit investments and other tax enhanced investments financed by business segments; (3) capital debt that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of
the Company and the related interest expense; (4) income and expense from qualified pension and other employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments; (5) corporate-level income and expense, after allocations to business
segments, including corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities, deferred compensation, and costs related to certain contingencies; (6) certain retained obligations relating to pre-demutualization policyholders whom
the Company had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life insurance sales practices remediation; (7) results related to the Company’s
capital protection framework; and (8) the impact of transactions with other segments.    On December 6, 2011, the Company sold its real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services businesses, which was comprised of Prudential Real Estate and Relocation Services, Inc.,
(“PRERS”) and its subsidiaries. The Company retained ownership of a financing subsidiary of PRERS that continues to hold debt and equity investments in a limited number of real estate brokerage franchises. As a result, the PRERS operations
previously reported as the Real Estate and Relocation Services segment, have been classified within divested businesses and are reflected in the Company’s Corporate and Other operations. Accordingly, these results are excluded from adjusted
operating income, with prior period results being adjusted to reflect such reclassification. 
  408



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

In addition to PRERS, divested businesses consist primarily of the property and casualty insurance businesses, individual health and disability insurance businesses, financial advisory business,
and commercial mortgage securitization operations.   
Closed Block Business. The Closed Block Business, which is managed separately from the Financial Services Businesses, was
established on the date of demutualization. It includes the Closed Block (as discussed in Note 12); assets held outside the Closed Block necessary to meet insurance regulatory capital requirements related to products included within the Closed
Block; deferred policy acquisition costs related to the Closed Block policies; the principal amount of the IHC debt (as discussed in Note 14) and certain related assets and liabilities.    Segment Accounting Policies. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
Note 2. Results for each segment include earnings on attributed equity established at a level which management considers necessary to support each segment’s risks. Operating expenses specifically identifiable to a particular segment are
allocated to that segment as incurred. Operating expenses not identifiable to a specific segment that are incurred in connection with the generation of segment revenues are generally allocated based upon the segment’s historical percentage of
general and administrative expenses.    Adjusted Operating
Income    In managing the Financial
Services Businesses, the Company analyzes the operating performance of each segment using “adjusted operating income.” Adjusted operating income does not equate to “income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and
equity in earnings of operating joint ventures” or “net income” as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP but is the measure of segment profit or loss used by the Company to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources and
consistent with authoritative guidance, is the measure of segment performance presented below.    Adjusted operating income is calculated by adjusting each segment’s “income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures” for the
following items, which are described in greater detail below:   


 
•
 
 realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments; 
 


 
•
 
 net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities
due to asset value changes;   


 
•
 
 the contribution to income/loss of divested businesses that have been or will be sold or exited but that did not qualify for “discontinued
operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP; and   


 
•
 
 equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. 
  These items are important to an understanding of overall
results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and the Company’s definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, the
Company believes that the presentation of adjusted operating income as measured for management purposes enhances the understanding of results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors
of the Financial Services Businesses.    Realized
investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments. Adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains (losses), net, except as indicated below. Significant elements of realized investment gains and losses include
impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses from sales of securities. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably
across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to the Company’s discretion and 
  409



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

influenced by market opportunities, as well as the Company’s tax and capital profile. Trends in the underlying profitability of the Company’s businesses can be more clearly identified
without the fluctuating effects of these transactions.    Charges that relate to realized investment gains (losses), net, are also excluded from adjusted operating income. The related charges are associated with: policyholder dividends; amortization of deferred
policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired (“VOBA”), unearned revenue reserves and deferred sales inducements; interest credited to policyholders’ account balances; reserves for future policy benefits; and payments
associated with the market value adjustment features related to certain of the annuity products the Company sells. Deferred policy acquisition costs, VOBA, unearned revenue reserves and deferred sales inducements for certain products are amortized
based on estimated gross profits, which include net realized investment gains and losses on the underlying invested assets including certain portions of the net realized investment gains and losses related to the embedded derivatives and related
hedging positions associated with the living benefit features of certain products. The related charge for these items represents the portion of this amortization associated with net realized investment gains and losses. The related charges for
policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholders’ account balances relate to certain foreign life policies and certain domestic group life policies, respectively, that pass back certain realized investment gains and losses to the
policyholder. Prior to its final payment in the second quarter of 2010, the related charges associated with policyholder dividends also included a percentage of the net increase in the fair value of specified assets included in Gibraltar Life’s
reorganization plan that was paid as a special dividend to Gibraltar Life policyholders. The reserves for certain policies are adjusted when cash flows related to these policies are affected by net realized investment gains and losses, and the
related charge for reserves for future policy benefits represents that adjustment. Certain of the Company’s annuity products contain a market value adjustment feature that requires the Company to pay to the contractholder or entitles the
Company to receive from the contractholder, upon surrender, a market value adjustment based on the crediting rates on the contract surrendered compared to crediting rates on newly issued contracts or based on an index rate at the time of purchase
compared to an index rate at time of surrender, as applicable. These payments mitigate the net realized investment gains or losses incurred upon the disposition of the underlying invested assets. The related charge represents the payments or
receipts associated with these market value adjustment features.    Adjustments to “Realized investment gains (losses), net,” for purposes of calculating adjusted operating income, include the following:    Gains and losses pertaining to derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are
included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” This includes mark-to-market adjustments of open contracts as well as periodic settlements. As discussed further below, adjusted operating income includes a portion of realized gains
and losses pertaining to certain derivative contracts.    Adjusted operating income of the International Insurance segment reflects the impact of an intercompany arrangement with Corporate and Other operations pursuant to which the segment’s non-U.S.
dollar-denominated earnings in all countries for a particular year, including its interim reporting periods, are translated at fixed currency exchange rates. The fixed rates are determined in connection with a currency hedging program designed to
mitigate the risk that unfavorable rate changes will reduce the segment’s U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings. Pursuant to this program, the Company’s Corporate and Other operations execute forward currency contracts with third parties to sell
the net exposure of projected earnings from the hedged currency in exchange for U.S. dollars at a specified exchange rate. The maturities of these contracts correspond with the future periods in which the identified non-U.S. dollar-denominated
earnings are expected to be generated. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP and, as noted above, all resulting profits or losses from such contracts are included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.”
When the contracts are terminated in the same period that the expected earnings emerge, the resulting positive or negative cash flow effect is included in adjusted operating income (net losses of $175 million, $93 million, and $36 million for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively). As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of open contracts used for this purpose were net liabilities of $184 million and $252 million, respectively. 
  410



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The Company uses interest rate and currency swaps and other derivatives to manage
interest and currency exchange rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities, including duration mismatches. For the derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, mark-to-market adjustments of open
contracts as well as periodic settlements are included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” However, the periodic swap settlements, as well as other derivative related yield adjustments, are included in adjusted operating income
to reflect the after-hedge yield of the underlying instruments. In certain instances, when these derivative contracts are terminated or offset before their final maturity, the resulting realized gains or losses recorded within “Realized
investment gains (losses), net” are recognized in adjusted operating income over periods that generally approximate the expected terms of the derivatives or underlying instruments in order for adjusted operating income to reflect the
after-hedge yield of the underlying instruments. Adjusted operating income includes net gains of $259 million, $243 million and $167 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, due to periodic settlements and
yield adjustments of such contracts, and includes net gains of $50 million, $35 million and $26 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to certain derivative contracts that were terminated or offset
in prior periods. The table below reflects the total deferred gain (loss) as of December 31, 2011 related to certain derivative contracts that were terminated or offset in prior periods that will be recognized in adjusted operating income in
future periods for each segment, as well as the weighted average period over which these deferred amounts will be recognized.   












 
  
Deferred Amount
 
  
WeightedAverage Period
 

 
  
(in millions)
 
  
(in years)
 

 Segment:
  



  




 International Insurance
  
$
657
 
  
 
29
 

 Asset Management
  
 
21
 
  
 
8
 

 Corporate and Other
  
 
(39
) 
  
 
6
 


  
  
  
 
  




 Total deferred gain (loss)
  
$
639
 
  





  
  
  
 
  



   Adjustments are also made for
the purposes of calculating adjusted operating income for the following items:    The Company conducts certain activities for which “Realized investment gains (losses), net” are a principal source of earnings for its businesses and therefore included in adjusted operating
income, particularly within the Company’s Asset Management segment. For example, Asset Management’s strategic investing business makes investments for sale or syndication to other investors or for placement or co-investment in the
Company’s managed funds and structured products. The “Realized investment gains (losses), net” associated with the sale of these strategic investments, as well as related derivative results, are a principal activity for this business
and included in adjusted operating income. In addition, the “Realized investment gains (losses), net” associated with loans originated by the Company’s commercial mortgage operations, as well as related derivative results and retained
mortgage servicing rights, are a principal activity for this business and included in adjusted operating income. Net realized investment gains of $154 million and $18 million, and losses of $273 million for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively, related to these and other businesses were reflected as an adjustment to “Realized investment gains (losses), net.”   
The Company has certain investments in its general account portfolios that are classified as trading. These trading investments are
carried at fair value and included in “Other trading account assets, at fair value” on the Company’s statements of financial position. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are recorded in “Asset
management fees and other income,” and interest and dividend income for these investments is recorded in “Net investment income.” Consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains and losses with respect to other investments
managed on a consistent basis, the net gains or losses on these investments, which is recorded within “Asset management fees and other income,” is excluded from adjusted operating income and is reflected as an adjustment to “Realized
investment gains (losses), net.” In addition, prior to the Company’s repayment of the obligation in 2010, the secured financing received from the Federal Reserve under 
  411



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

TALF was reflected within “Long-term debt,” and carried at fair value under the fair value option under authoritative guidance around fair value. The changes in the fair value of this
debt, which were recorded within “Asset management fees and other income,” was also excluded from adjusted operating income and reflected as an adjustment to “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” This is consistent with the
securities purchased with the proceeds from this financing, which were carried at fair value and included in “Other trading account assets, at fair value” as discussed above. The net impact of these adjustments was to exclude from adjusted
operating income net losses of $81 million and net gains of $10 million and $55 million, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  The Company has certain assets and liabilities for which,
under U.S. GAAP, the changes in value, including those associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates during the period, are recorded in “Asset management fees and other income.” To the extent the foreign currency exposure on
these assets and liabilities is economically hedged or considered part of the Company’s capital funding strategies for its international subsidiaries, the change in value included in “Asset management fees and other income” is
excluded from adjusted operating income and is reflected as an adjustment to “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” The net impact of this adjustment was to exclude from adjusted operating income net gains of $965 million, $21 million
and $168 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    The Company records an adjustment for non-performance risk that relates to the uncollateralized portion of certain derivative contracts between a subsidiary of the Company and third-parties. Consistent
with the exclusion of realized investment gains and losses with respect to the mark-to-market on other derivatives, the impact of the non-performance risk is excluded from adjusted operating income and is reflected as an adjustment to “Realized
investment gains (losses), net.” The net impact of the non-performance risk and certain other adjustments was to exclude from adjusted operating income net losses of $44 million and $4 million, and net gains of $34 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    In connection with the settlement of disputes arising out of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition filed by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the Company recorded additional losses of $65 million in 2011
related to a portion of its counterparty exposure on derivative transactions it had previously held with Lehman Brothers and its affiliates. These losses are recorded within “Asset management fees and other income” within the
Company’s Corporate and Other operations and are excluded from adjusted operating income as a related adjustment to “Realized investment gains (losses), net,” which is consistent with the adjusted operating income treatment of similar
credit-related losses that are recorded within “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” Any subsequent recoveries arising from this settlement will also be excluded from adjusted operating income. There were no adjustments for the years
ended December 31, 2010 or 2009.    Changes
in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes and investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. Certain products included in the Retirement and International Insurance
segments, are experience-rated in that investment results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The majority of investments supporting these experience-rated products are classified as trading and are
carried at fair value. These trading investments are reflected on the statements of financial position as “Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value” (“TAASIL”). Realized and unrealized gains and
losses for these investments are reported in “Asset management fees and other income.” Interest and dividend income for these investments is reported in “Net investment income.” To a lesser extent, these experience-rated products
are also supported by derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans. The derivatives that support these experience-rated products are reflected on the statement of financial position as “Other long-term investments” and are carried
at fair value, and the realized and unrealized gains and losses are reported in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” The commercial mortgage and other loans that support these experience-rated products are carried at unpaid
principal, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses, and are reflected on the statements of financial position as “Commercial mortgage and other loans.” Gains and losses on sales and changes in the valuation allowance for
commercial mortgage and other loans are reported in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” 
  412



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses on TAASIL. This is
consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains and losses with respect to other investments supporting insurance liabilities managed on a consistent basis. In addition, to be consistent with the historical treatment of charges related to
realized investment gains and losses on investments, adjusted operating income also excludes the change in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments (including changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage
and other loans) supporting these experience-rated contracts, which are reflected in “Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances.” Adjusted operating income also excludes net investment gains and losses on related
derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans reported in “Realized investment gains (losses), net”. The result of this approach is that adjusted operating income for these products includes net fee revenue and interest spread the
Company earns on these experience-rated contracts, and excludes changes in fair value of the pool of investments, both realized and unrealized, that are expected to ultimately accrue to the contractholders. 
  Divested businesses. The contribution to income/loss
of divested businesses that have been or will be sold or exited, but that did not qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP, are excluded from adjusted operating income as the results of divested businesses
are not relevant to understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2009 divested businesses includes a $2.247 billion pre-tax gain from the sale of the Company’s interest in its retail
securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia, and $104 million of certain related one-time compensation and other costs.   
Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. Equity in earnings of
operating joint ventures, on a pre-tax basis, are included in adjusted operating income as these results are a principal source of earnings. These earnings are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after-tax basis as a separate line on the
Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.    Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represents the portion of earnings from consolidated
entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors, and are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
  413



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The summary below reconciles adjusted operating income before income taxes for the
Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures:   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Adjusted Operating Income before income taxes for Financial Services Businesses by Segment:
  



 



 




 Individual Annuities
  
$
713
  
 
$
1,046
  
 
$
757
  

 Retirement
  
 
598
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
494
  

 Asset Management
  
 
659
  
 
 
487
  
 
 
55
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
  
 
1,970
  
 
 
2,105
  
 
 
1,306
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Individual Life
  
 
517
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
562
  

 Group Insurance
  
 
208
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
331
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
  
 
725
  
 
 
715
  
 
 
893
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 International Insurance
  
 
2,705
  
 
 
2,085
  
 
 
1,868
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total International Insurance Division
  
 
2,705
  
 
 
2,085
  
 
 
1,868
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Corporate Operations
  
 
(1,127
) 
 
 
(923
) 
 
 
(779
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Corporate and Other
  
 
(1,127
) 
 
 
(923
) 
 
 
(779
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted Operating Income before income taxes for Financial Services Businesses
  
 
4,273
  
 
 
3,982
  
 
 
3,288
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Reconciling items:
  



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments
  
 
2,521
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
(1,216
) 

 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
(1,836
) 
 
 
(178
) 
 
 
(492
) 

 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net
  
 
223
  
 
 
501
  
 
 
1,601
  

 Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes
  
 
(123
) 
 
 
(631
) 
 
 
(899
) 

 Divested businesses
  
 
54
  
 
 
(25
) 
 
 
2,086
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
(192
) 
 
 
(98
) 
 
 
(2,364
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial
Services Businesses
  
 
4,920
  
 
 
3,667
  
 
 
2,004
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Closed Block
Business
  
 
197
  
 
 
725
  
 
 
(480
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
$
5,117
  
 
$
4,392
  
 
$
1,524
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The U.S. Retirement Solutions
and Investment Management Division and U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division results reflect deferred policy acquisition costs as if the individual annuity business and group insurance business were stand-alone operations. The
elimination of intersegment costs capitalized in accordance with this policy is included in consolidating adjustments within Corporate and Other operations. 
  414



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The summary below presents certain financial information for the Company’s
reportable segments:   
































 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Revenues
 
 
NetInvestmentIncome
 
 
Policyholders’Benefits
 
 
InterestCredited toPolicyholders’AccountBalances
 
 
Dividends toPolicyholders
 
 
InterestExpense
 
 
Amortization ofDeferred PolicyAcquisitionCosts
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Financial Services Businesses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Individual Annuities
 
$
3,638
  
 
$
790
  
 
$
476
  
 
$
570
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
112
  
 
$
606
  

 Retirement
 
 
4,871
  
 
 
3,178
  
 
 
1,594
  
 
 
1,715
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
47
  

 Asset Management
 
 
2,311
  
 
 
119
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
25
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
 
 
10,820
  
 
 
4,087
  
 
 
2,070
  
 
 
2,285
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
139
  
 
 
678
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Individual Life
 
 
2,900
  
 
 
978
  
 
 
1,115
  
 
 
299
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
174
  

 Group Insurance
 
 
6,068
  
 
 
686
  
 
 
4,825
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
26
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
 
 
8,968
  
 
 
1,664
  
 
 
5,940
  
 
 
527
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
200
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 International Insurance
 
 
19,788
  
 
 
3,777
  
 
 
11,963
  
 
 
978
  
 
 
122
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,141
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total International Insurance Division
 
 
19,788
  
 
 
3,777
  
 
 
11,963
  
 
 
978
  
 
 
122
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1,141
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Corporate Operations
 
 
(179
) 
 
 
389
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
810
  
 
 
(41
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Corporate and Other
 
 
(179
) 
 
 
389
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
810
  
 
 
(41
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
39,397
  
 
 
9,917
  
 
 
20,119
  
 
 
3,756
  
 
 
151
  
 
 
1,164
  
 
 
1,978
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Reconciling items:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments
 
 
2,515
  
 
 
(28
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net
 
 
(108
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
466
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,260
  

 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net
 
 
223
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to assets value changes
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Divested businesses
 
 
266
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(263
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Financial Services Businesses
 
 
42,030
  
 
 
9,910
  
 
 
20,132
  
 
 
4,345
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
1,164
  
 
 
3,238
  

 Closed Block Business
 
 
7,015
  
 
 
3,214
  
 
 
3,482
  
 
 
139
  
 
 
2,571
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
54
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total per Consolidated Financial Statements
 
$
49,045
  
 
$
13,124
  
 
$
23,614
  
 
$
4,484
  
 
$
2,723
  
 
$
1,312
  
 
$
3,292
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  415



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
































 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
 
Revenues
 
 
NetInvestmentIncome
 
 
Policyholders’Benefits
 
 
InterestCredited toPolicyholders’AccountBalances
 
 
Dividends toPolicyholders
 
 
InterestExpense
 
 
Amortization ofDeferred PolicyAcquisitionCosts
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Financial Services Businesses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Individual Annuities
 
$
3,195
  
 
$
878
  
 
$
291
  
 
$
581
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
66
  
 
$
260
  

 Retirement
 
 
5,183
  
 
 
3,238
  
 
 
1,848
  
 
 
1,834
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
20
  

 Asset Management
 
 
1,888
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
25
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
 
 
10,266
  
 
 
4,237
  
 
 
2,139
  
 
 
2,415
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
96
  
 
 
305
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Individual Life
 
 
2,815
  
 
 
903
  
 
 
1,090
  
 
 
284
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
218
  

 Group Insurance
 
 
5,458
  
 
 
668
  
 
 
4,258
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
25
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
 
 
8,273
  
 
 
1,571
  
 
 
5,348
  
 
 
511
  
 
 
30
  
 
 
162
  
 
 
243
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 International Insurance
 
 
12,220
  
 
 
2,469
  
 
 
7,223
  
 
 
562
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
855
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total International Insurance Division
 
 
12,220
  
 
 
2,469
  
 
 
7,223
  
 
 
562
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
855
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Corporate Operations
 
 
(229
) 
 
 
321
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
(70
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
788
  
 
 
(35
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Corporate and Other
 
 
(229
) 
 
 
321
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
(70
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
788
  
 
 
(35
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
30,530
  
 
 
8,598
  
 
 
14,755
  
 
 
3,418
  
 
 
122
  
 
 
1,049
  
 
 
1,368
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Reconciling items:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments
 
 
116
  
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net
 
 
(159
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
20
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  

 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net
 
 
501
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to assets value changes
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
631
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Divested businesses
 
 
235
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(109
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Financial Services Businesses
 
 
31,114
  
 
 
8,618
  
 
 
14,773
  
 
 
4,069
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
1,049
  
 
 
1,370
  

 Closed Block Business
 
 
7,086
  
 
 
3,247
  
 
 
3,512
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
2,071
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
67
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total per Consolidated Financial Statements
 
$
38,200
  
 
$
11,865
  
 
$
18,285
  
 
$
4,209
  
 
$
2,189
  
 
$
1,197
  
 
$
1,437
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  416



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
































 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
 
Revenues
 
 
NetInvestmentIncome
 
 
Policyholders’Benefits
 
 
InterestCredited toPolicyholders’AccountBalances
 
 
Dividends toPolicyholders
 
 
InterestExpense
 
 
Amortization ofDeferred PolicyAcquisitionCosts
 

 
 
(in millions)
 

 Financial Services Businesses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Individual Annuities
 
$
2,515
  
 
$
979
  
 
$
89
  
 
$
618
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
13
  
 
$
243
  

 Retirement
 
 
4,659
  
 
 
3,309
  
 
 
1,380
  
 
 
1,907
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
24
  

 Asset Management
 
 
1,257
  
 
 
90
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
18
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
 
 
8,431
  
 
 
4,378
  
 
 
1,469
  
 
 
2,525
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
285
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Individual Life
 
 
2,768
  
 
 
809
  
 
 
1,007
  
 
 
263
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
186
  

 Group Insurance
 
 
5,285
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
4,016
  
 
 
229
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
22
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
 
 
8,053
  
 
 
1,432
  
 
 
5,023
  
 
 
492
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
181
  
 
 
208
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 International Insurance
 
 
10,592
  
 
 
2,172
  
 
 
6,057
  
 
 
480
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
798
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total International Insurance Division
 
 
10,592
  
 
 
2,172
  
 
 
6,057
  
 
 
480
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
798
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Corporate Operations
 
 
(253
) 
 
 
237
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
(121
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
702
  
 
 
(25
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Corporate and Other
 
 
(253
) 
 
 
237
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
(121
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
702
  
 
 
(25
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
 
26,823
  
 
 
8,219
  
 
 
12,574
  
 
 
3,376
  
 
 
117
  
 
 
955
  
 
 
1,266
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Reconciling items:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments
 
 
(1,216
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net
 
 
(200
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
68
  
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
207
  

 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net
 
 
1,601
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to assets value changes
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
899
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Divested businesses
 
 
2,457
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
19
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(2,330
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Financial Services Businesses
 
 
27,135
  
 
 
8,212
  
 
 
12,584
  
 
 
4,343
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
955
  
 
 
1,473
  

 Closed Block Business
 
 
5,245
  
 
 
3,178
  
 
 
3,762
  
 
 
141
  
 
 
1,222
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
21
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total per Consolidated Financial Statements
 
$
32,380
  
 
$
11,390
  
 
$
16,346
  
 
$
4,484
  
 
$
1,298
  
 
$
1,101
  
 
$
1,494
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  417



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Revenues, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, for the years ended December 31,
include the following associated with the Company’s foreign and domestic operations:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Domestic operations
  
$
28,944
 
  
$
26,488
 
  
$
22,487
 

 Foreign operations, total
  
 
20,101
 
  
 
11,712
 
  
 
9,893
 

 Foreign operations, Japan
  
 
17,563
 
  
 
9,456
 
  
 
8,083
 

 Foreign operations, Korea
  
 
1,336
 
  
 
1,278
 
  
 
1,107
 
   The Asset Management segment
revenues include intersegment revenues, primarily consisting of asset-based management and administration fees, for the years ended December 31, as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Asset Management segment intersegment revenues
  
$
481
 
  
$
399
 
  
$
347
 
   Management has determined the
intersegment revenues with reference to market rates. Intersegment revenues are eliminated in consolidation in Corporate and Other.   
The summary below presents total assets for the Company’s reportable segments at December 31, 
 












 
  
Assets
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Individual Annuities
  
$
123,674
  
  
$
108,879
  

 Retirement
  
 
132,020
  
  
 
130,854
  

 Asset Management
  
 
37,308
  
  
 
32,920
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
  
 
293,002
  
  
 
272,653
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Individual Life
  
 
44,088
  
  
 
41,131
  

 Group Insurance
  
 
37,033
  
  
 
35,490
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
  
 
81,121
  
  
 
76,621
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 International Insurance
  
 
171,492
  
  
 
103,097
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total International Insurance Division
  
 
171,492
  
  
 
103,097
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Corporate Operations
  
 
9,456
  
  
 
19,775
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Corporate and Other
  
 
9,456
  
  
 
19,775
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Financial Services Businesses
  
 
555,071
  
  
 
472,146
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Closed Block Business
  
 
69,450
  
  
 
67,708
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
624,521
  
  
$
539,854
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
23.    COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND LITIGATION AND
REGULATORY MATTERS 
  Commitments and Guarantees 
  The Company occupies leased office space in many locations
under various long-term leases and has entered into numerous leases covering the long-term use of computers and other equipment. Rental expense, net of sub-lease income, incurred for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $280
million, $199 million and $195 million, respectively. 
  418



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
The following table presents, at December 31, 2011, the Company’s future
minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases along with associated sub-lease income:   














 
  
OperatingLeases
 
  
Sub-leaseIncome
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 2012
  
 
152
 
  
 
(16
) 

 2013
  
 
136
 
  
 
(14
) 

 2014
  
 
121
 
  
 
(13
) 

 2015
  
 
76
 
  
 
0
 

 2016
  
 
58
 
  
 
0
 

 2017 and thereafter
  
 
143
 
  
 
0
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
686
 
  
$
(43
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   Occasionally, for business
reasons, the Company may exit certain non-cancelable operating leases prior to their expiration. In these instances, the Company’s policy is to accrue, at the time it ceases to use the property being leased, the future rental expense net of any
expected sub-lease income, and to release this reserve over the remaining commitment period. Of the total non-cancelable operating leases and sub-lease income amounts listed above, $24 million and $35 million, respectively, has been accrued at
December 31, 2011.    Commercial Mortgage Loan
Commitments   








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Total outstanding mortgage loan commitments
  
$
2,139
 

 Portion of commitment where prearrangement to sell to investor exists
  
$
1,199
 
   In connection with the
Company’s commercial mortgage operations, it originates commercial mortgage loans. Commitments for loans that will be held for sale are recognized as derivatives and recorded at fair value. In certain of these transactions, the Company
pre-arranges that it will sell the loan to an investor, including to governmental sponsored entities as discussed below, after the Company funds the loan.   
Commitments to Purchase Investments (excluding Commercial Mortgage Loans)   








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Expected to be funded from the general account and other operations outside the separate accounts(1)
  
$
4,414
 

 Expected to be funded from separate accounts
  
$
1,159
 

 Portion of separate account commitments with recourse to Prudential Insurance
  
$
397
 
  


(1)
 
Includes a remaining commitment of $385 million related to the Company’s agreement to co-invest with the Fosun Group (Fosun) in a private equity fund, managed by
Fosun, for the Chinese marketplace.   
The Company has other commitments to purchase or fund investments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under the
Company’s control, including those at the discretion of the Company’s counterparties. The Company anticipates a portion of these commitments will ultimately be funded from its separate accounts. Some of the separate account commitments
have recourse to Prudential Insurance if the separate accounts are unable to fund the amounts when due. 
  419



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Transitional Financing Facilities Issued in Connection with Sale of PRERS 
 








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Total remaining available credit lines
  
$
186
 
   In connection with the sale
of the real estate brokerage franchise and relocation business, the Company has agreed to provide the buyer with transitional financing for the transferred relocation services business. The Company provided two six month facilities with a total of
$275 million of available financing and one three year facility with $155 million of available financing. The effective date of these agreements was December 6, 2011. 
  Guarantees of Investee Debt 
 








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Total guarantees of debt issued by entities in which the separate accounts have invested
  
$
2,433
 

 Amount of above guarantee that is limited to separate account assets
  
$
2,364
 

 Accrued liability associated with guarantee
  
$
0
 
   A number of guarantees
provided by the Company relate to real estate investments held in its separate accounts, in which entities that the separate account has invested in have borrowed funds, and the Company has guaranteed their obligations. The Company provides these
guarantees to assist these entities in obtaining financing. The Company’s maximum potential exposure under these guarantees is mostly limited to the assets of the separate account. The exposure that is not limited to the separate account assets
relates mostly to guarantees limited to fraud, criminal activity or other bad acts. These guarantees generally expire at various times over the next fourteen years. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s assessment is that it is unlikely
payments will be required. Any payments that may become required under these guarantees would either first be reduced by proceeds received by the creditor on a sale of the underlying collateral, or would provide rights to obtain the underlying
collateral.    Indemnification of Securities Lending
Transactions   








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Indemnification provided to mutual fund and separate account clients for securities lending
  
$
13,950
 

 Fair value of related collateral associated with above indemnifications
  
$
14,307
 

 Accrued liability associated with guarantee
  
$
0
 
   In the normal course of
business, the Company may facilitate securities lending transactions on behalf of mutual funds and separate accounts for which the Company is the investment advisor and/or the asset manager. In certain of these arrangements, the Company has provided
an indemnification to the mutual funds or separate accounts to hold them harmless against losses caused by counterparty (i.e., borrower) defaults associated with the securities lending activity facilitated by the Company. Collateral is provided by
the counterparty to the mutual fund or separate account at the inception of the loan equal to or greater than 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities and the collateral is maintained daily at 102% or greater of the fair value of the loaned
securities. The Company is only at risk if the counterparty to the securities lending transaction defaults and the value of the collateral held is less than the value of the securities loaned to such counterparty. The Company believes the
possibility of any payments under these indemnities is remote. 
  420



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Credit Derivatives Written    As discussed further in Note 21, the Company writes credit derivatives under which the Company is obligated to
pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the defaulted security or similar security.   
Guarantees of Global Commodities Business   








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Exposure under the guarantees
  
$
99
 

 Accrued liability associated with guarantees
  
$
0
 
   In conjunction with the sale
of the Global Commodities Business, the Company entered into a guarantees transition and collateral agreement with Jefferies, pursuant to which the Company agreed to keep these guarantees outstanding for a period of 18 months following the closing,
including with respect to business conducted by the transferred entities with beneficiaries of these guarantees subsequent to the closing date. Jefferies has agreed to indemnify the Company for any amounts payable under the guarantees and, under
certain conditions, provide collateral for such obligation. As of December 31, 2011, no collateral has been provided by Jefferies.   
Guarantees of Asset Values   








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Guaranteed value of third parties assets
  
$
47,017
 

 Fair value of collateral supporting these assets
  
$
49,044
 

 Asset associated with guarantee, carried at fair value
  
$
2
 
   Certain contracts
underwritten by the Retirement segment include guarantees related to financial assets owned by the guaranteed party. These contracts are accounted for as derivatives and carried at fair value. The collateral supporting these guarantees is not
reflected on the Company’s balance sheet.    Guarantees
of Credit Enhancements   








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Guarantees of credit enhancements of debt instruments associated with commercial real estate assets
  
$
221
 

 Fair value of properties and associated tax credits that secure the guarantee
  
$
290
 

 Accrued liability associated with guarantee
  
$
0
 
   The Company arranges for
credit enhancements of certain debt instruments that provide financing primarily for affordable multi-family real estate assets, including certain tax-exempt bond financings. The credit enhancements provide assurances to the debt holders as to the
timely payment of amounts due under the debt instruments. The remaining contractual maturities for these guarantees are up to fifteen years. The Company’s obligations to reimburse required credit enhancement payments are secured by mortgages on
the related real estate. The Company receives certain ongoing fees for providing these enhancement arrangements and anticipates the extinguishment of its obligation under these enhancements prior to maturity through the aggregation and transfer of
its positions to a substitute enhancement provider. 
  421



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Indemnification of Serviced Mortgage Loans 
 








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Maximum exposure under indemnification agreements for mortgage loans serviced by the Company
  
$
1,088
 

 First-loss exposure portion of above
  
$
353
 

 Accrued liability associated with guarantees
  
$
21
 
   As part of the commercial
mortgage activities of the Company’s Asset Management segment, the Company provides commercial mortgage origination, underwriting and servicing for certain government sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Company has
agreed to indemnify the government sponsored entities for a portion of the credit risk associated with certain of the mortgages it services through a delegated authority arrangement. Under these arrangements, the Company originates multi-family
mortgages for sale to the government sponsored entities based on underwriting standards they specify, and makes payments to them for a specified percentage share of losses they incur on certain loans serviced by the Company. The Company’s
percentage share of losses incurred generally varies from 2% to 20% of the loan balance, and is typically based on a first-loss exposure for a stated percentage of the loan balance, plus a shared exposure with the government sponsored entity for any
losses in excess of the stated first-loss percentage, subject to a contractually specified maximum percentage. The Company services $8,477 million of mortgages subject to these loss-sharing arrangements as of December 31, 2011, all of which are
collateralized by first priority liens on the underlying multi-family residential properties. As of December 31, 2011, these mortgages had an average debt service coverage ratio of 1.75 times and an average loan-to-value ratio of 68%. The
Company’s total share of losses related to indemnifications that were settled was $1 million, $3 million, and $0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
  Contingent Consideration 
 








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Maximum potential contingent consideration associated with acquisitions
  
$
57
 
   In connection with certain
acquisitions, the Company has agreed to pay additional consideration in future periods, contingent upon the attainment by the acquired entity of defined operating objectives. These arrangements will be resolved over the following two years. Any such
payments would result in increases in intangible assets, such as goodwill.    Other Guarantees   








 
  
As of December 31,2011
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Other guarantees where amount can be determined
  
$
495
 

 Accrued liability for other guarantees and indemnifications
  
$
13
 
   The Company is also subject
to other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements. The Company has provided indemnities and guarantees related to acquisitions, dispositions, investments and other transactions that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of
representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. These obligations are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law, such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum
potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Included above are $300 million of yield maintenance guarantees related to certain investments the Company sold. The
Company does not expect to make any payments on these guarantees and is not carrying any liabilities associated with these guarantees. 
  422



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, it is not possible to
determine the maximum potential amount due under these guarantees. The accrued liabilities identified above do not include retained liabilities associated with sold businesses. 
  Contingent Liabilities 
  On an ongoing basis, the Company’s internal supervisory
and control functions review the quality of sales, marketing and other customer interface procedures and practices and may recommend modifications or enhancements. From time to time, this review process results in the discovery of product
administration, servicing or other errors, including errors relating to the timing or amount of payments or contract values due to customers. In certain cases, if appropriate, the Company may offer customers remediation and may incur charges,
including the cost of such remediation, administrative costs and regulatory fines.    The Company is subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning the identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and is subject to audit and
examination for compliance with these requirements. For additional discussion of these matters, see “Litigation and Regulatory Matters” below.   
It is possible that the results of operations or the cash flow of the Company in a particular quarterly or annual period could be
materially affected as a result of payments in connection with the matters discussed above or other matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. Management believes, however, that ultimate payments in
connection with these matters, after consideration of applicable reserves and rights to indemnification, should not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position.    Litigation and Regulatory Matters 
  The Company is subject to legal and regulatory actions in
the ordinary course of its businesses. Pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings relating to aspects of the Company’s businesses and operations that are specific to it and proceedings that are typical of the businesses in which
it operates, including in both cases businesses that have been either divested or placed in wind-down status. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters, the
plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. The outcome of litigation or a regulatory matter, and the amount or range of potential loss at any particular time, is often inherently uncertain.
   Individual Life and Group Insurance
   In January 2012, a qui tam action on
behalf of the State of Illinois, Total Asset Recovery Services v. Met Life Inc, et al., Prudential Financial, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of America, and Prudential Holdings, LLC, filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County,
Illinois, was served on the Company. The complaint alleges that the Company failed to escheat life insurance proceeds to the State of Illinois in violation of the Illinois False Claims Whistleblower Reward and Protection Act and seeks injunctive
relief, compensatory damages, civil penalties, treble damages, prejudgment interest, attorneys’ fees and costs.   
In January 2012, a Global Resolution Agreement entered into by the Company and a third party auditor became effective upon its acceptance
by the unclaimed property departments of 20 states and jurisdictions. Under the terms of the Global Resolution Agreement, the third party auditor acting on behalf of the signatory states will compare expanded matching criteria to the Social Security
Master Death File (“SSMDF”) to identify deceased insureds and contract holders where a valid claim has not been made. In February 2012, a Regulatory Settlement 
  423



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

Agreement entered into by the Company to resolve a multi-state market conduct examination regarding its adherence to state claim settlement practices became effective upon its acceptance by the
insurance departments of 20 states and jurisdictions. The Regulatory Settlement Agreement applies prospectively and requires the Company to adopt and implement additional procedures comparing its records to the SSMDF to identify unclaimed death
benefits and proscribes procedures for identifying and locating beneficiaries once deaths are identified. Other jurisdictions that are not signatories to the Regulatory Settlement Agreement are considering proposals that would apply prospectively
and require life insurance companies to take additional steps to identify unreported deceased policy and contract holders. These prospective changes and any escheatable property identified as a result of the audits and inquiries could result in:
(1) additional payments of previously unclaimed death benefits; (2) the payment of abandoned funds to U.S. jurisdictions; and (3) changes in the Company’s practices and procedures for the identification of escheatable funds and
beneficiaries, which would impact claim payments and reserves, among other consequences.    The Company is one of several companies subpoenaed by the New York Attorney General regarding its unclaimed property procedures. Additionally, the New York Department of Insurance (“NYDOI”) has
requested that 172 life insurers (including the Company) provide data to the NYDOI regarding use of the SSMDF. The New York Office of Unclaimed Funds recently notified the Company that it intends to conduct an audit of the Company’s compliance
with New York’s unclaimed property laws. The Minnesota Attorney General has also requested information regarding the Company’s use of the SSMDF and its claim handling procedures and the Company is one of several companies subpoenaed by the
Minnesota Department of Commerce, Insurance Division. In February 2012, the Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General requested information regarding the Company’s unclaimed property procedures. 
  From July 2010 to December 2010, four purported nationwide
class actions were filed challenging the use of retained asset accounts to settle death benefit claims of beneficiaries of a group life insurance contract owned by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA Contract”) that
covers the lives of members and veterans of the U.S. armed forces. In 2011, the cases were consolidated in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts by the Judicial Panel for Multi-District Litigation as In re Prudential
Insurance Company of America SGLI/VGLI Contract Litigation. The consolidated complaint alleges that the use of the retained assets accounts that earn interest and are available to be withdrawn by the beneficiary, in whole or in part, at any
time, to settle death benefit claims is in violation of federal law, and asserts claims of breach of contract, breaches of fiduciary duty and the duty of good faith and fair dealing, fraud and unjust enrichment and seeks compensatory and punitive
damages, disgorgement of profits, equitable relief and pre and post-judgment interest. In March 2011, the motion to dismiss was denied. In January 2012, plaintiffs filed a motion to certify the class. 
  In September 2010, Huffman v. The Prudential Insurance
Company, a purported nationwide class action brought on behalf of beneficiaries of group life insurance contracts owned by ERISA-governed employee welfare benefit plans was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, challenging the use of retained asset accounts in employee welfare benefit plans to settle death benefit claims as a violation of ERISA and seeking injunctive relief and disgorgement of profits. In July 2011, the Company’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings was denied.    In
January 2011, a purported state-wide class action, Garcia v. The Prudential Insurance Company of America was dismissed by the Second Judicial District Court, Washoe County, Nevada. The complaint was brought on behalf of Nevada beneficiaries
of individual life insurance policies for which, unless the beneficiaries elected another settlement method, death benefits were placed in retained asset accounts. The complaint alleges that by failing to disclose material information about the
accounts, the Company wrongfully delayed payment and improperly retained undisclosed profits, and seeks damages, injunctive relief, attorneys’ fees and pre and post-judgment interest. In February 2011, plaintiff appealed the dismissal to the
Nevada Supreme Court. As previously reported, in December 2009, an earlier purported nationwide class action raising substantially similar allegations brought by the same plaintiff in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey,
Garcia v. Prudential Insurance Company of America, was dismissed. In December 2010, a purported state-wide class action complaint, Phillips v. Prudential Financial, Inc., was filed in state court and removed to the United

  424



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois. The complaint makes allegations under Illinois law, substantially similar to the Garcia cases, on behalf of a class of Illinois
residents whose death benefit claims were settled by retained assets accounts. In March 2011, the complaint was amended to drop the Company as a defendant and add Pruco Life Insurance Company as a defendant and is now captioned Phillips v.
Prudential Insurance and Pruco Life Insurance Company. In November 2011, the complaint was dismissed. In December 2011, plaintiffs appealed the dismissal.   
In July 2010, the Company, along with other life insurance industry participants, received a formal request for information from the State
of New York Attorney General’s Office in connection with its investigation into industry practices relating to the use of retained asset accounts. In August 2010, the Company received a similar request for information from the State of
Connecticut Attorney General’s Office. The Company is cooperating with these investigations. The Company has also been contacted by state insurance regulators and other governmental entities, including the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
and Congressional committees regarding retained asset accounts. These matters may result in additional investigations, information requests, claims, hearings, litigation and adverse publicity.    In February 2011, a fifth amended complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of
New Jersey in Clark v. Prudential Insurance Company. The complaint brought on behalf of a purported class of California, Indiana, Ohio and Texas residents who purchased individual health insurance policies alleges that Prudential Insurance
failed to disclose that it had ceased selling this type of policy in 1981 and that, as a result, premiums would increase significantly. The complaint alleges claims of fraudulent misrepresentation and omission, breach of the duty of good faith and
fair dealing, and California’s Unfair Competition Law and seeks compensatory and punitive damages. The matter was originally filed in 2008 and certain of the claims in the first four complaints were dismissed. 
  In April 2009, Schultz v. The Prudential Insurance Company
of America, a purported nationwide class action on behalf of participants claiming disability benefits under certain employee benefit plans insured by Prudential, was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois. As amended, the complaint alleges that Prudential Insurance and the defendant plans violated ERISA by characterizing family Social Security benefits as “loss of time” benefits that were offset against Prudential contract
benefits. The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment that the offsets were improper, damages and other relief. The Company has agreed to indemnify the named defendant plans. In April 2011, Schultz was dismissed with prejudice, and plaintiffs
appealed to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The appeal has been argued and is submitted for decision.   
From November 2002 to March 2005, eleven separate complaints were filed against the Company and the law firm of Leeds Morelli &
Brown in New Jersey state court and in the New Jersey Superior Court, Essex County as Lederman v. Prudential Financial, Inc., et al. The complaints allege that an alternative dispute resolution agreement entered into among Prudential
Insurance, over 235 claimants who are current and former Prudential Insurance employees, and Leeds Morelli & Brown (the law firm representing the claimants) was illegal and that Prudential Insurance conspired with Leeds Morelli &
Brown to commit fraud, malpractice, breach of contract, and violate racketeering laws by advancing legal fees to the law firm with the purpose of limiting Prudential’s liability to the claimants. In February 2010, the New Jersey Supreme Court
assigned the cases for centralized case management to the Superior Court, Bergen County. The Company participated in a court-ordered mediation that resulted in a settlement involving 193 of the remaining 235 plaintiffs. The amounts paid to the 193
plaintiffs were within existing reserves for this matter. The remaining 42 plaintiffs continue to pursue their individual lawsuits, and have filed offers of judgment totaling approximately $90 million. In February 2012, the court granted summary
judgment against two of the remaining plaintiffs.   
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management 
  In October 2007, Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity
Co. (“PRIAC”) filed an action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Prudential Retirement Insurance & Annuity Co. v. State Street Global Advisors, in PRIAC’s fiduciary capacity and
on behalf of certain defined benefit and defined 
  425



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

contribution plan clients of PRIAC, against an unaffiliated asset manager, State Street Global Advisors (“SSgA”) and SSgA’s affiliate, State Street Bank and Trust Company
(“State Street”). This action seeks, among other relief, restitution of certain losses attributable to certain investment funds sold by SSgA as to which PRIAC believes SSgA employed investment strategies and practices that were
misrepresented by SSgA and failed to exercise the standard of care of a prudent investment manager. Given the unusual circumstances surrounding the management of these SSgA funds and in order to protect the interests of the affected plans and their
participants while PRIAC pursues these remedies, PRIAC implemented a process under which affected plan clients that authorized PRIAC to proceed on their behalf have received payments from funds provided by PRIAC for the losses referred to above. The
Company’s consolidated financial statements, and the results of the Retirement segment included in the Company’s U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division, for the year ended December 31, 2007 include a pre-tax
charge of $82 million, reflecting these payments to plan clients and certain related costs. In September 2008, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York denied the State Street defendants’ motion to dismiss claims
for damages and other relief under Section 502(a)(2) of ERISA, but dismissed the claims for equitable relief under Section 502(a)(3) of ERISA. In October 2008, defendants answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims for contribution
and indemnification, defamation and violations of Massachusetts’ unfair and deceptive trade practices law. In February 2010, State Street reached a settlement with the SEC over charges that it misled investors about their exposure to sub-prime
investments, resulting in significant investor losses in mid-2007. Under the settlement, State Street paid approximately $313 million in disgorgement, pre-judgment interest, penalty and compensation into a Fair Fund that was distributed to injured
investors and consequently, State Street paid PRIAC, for deposit into its separate accounts, approximately $52.5 million. By the terms of the settlement, State Street’s payment to PRIAC does not resolve any claims PRIAC has against State Street
or SSgA in connection with the losses in the investment funds SSgA managed, and the penalty component of State Street’s SEC settlement cannot be used to offset or reduce compensatory damages in the action against State Street and SSgA. In June
2010, PRIAC moved for partial summary judgment on State Street’s counterclaims. At the same time, State Street moved for summary judgment on PRIAC’s complaint. In March 2011, the district court denied State Street’s motion for summary
judgment and denied in part and granted in part PRIAC’s motion for partial summary judgment on State Street’s counterclaims. In October 2011, the court held a bench trial to determine whether State Street had breached its fiduciary duty to
PRIAC’s plan clients. In February 2012, the court issued a decision holding that State Street breached its fiduciary duty to the plans under ERISA to manage the investment funds prudently and to diversify them. The court held that PRIAC
did not prove that State Street breached its duty of loyalty to the plans under ERISA. The court held that State Street’s breaches caused the plans’ losses in the amount of $76.7 million and, after crediting State Street for
an earlier payment, awarded $28.1 million in damages in addition to the amount previously recovered as a result of the SEC settlement. The court has not yet ruled on State Street’s counterclaims and has reserved judgment on
PRIAC’s requests for pre-judgment interest and attorney’s fees.    Other Matters    In October 2006, a purported class action lawsuit, Bouder v. Prudential Financial, Inc. and Prudential Insurance Company of America, was filed in the United States District Court for the District
of New Jersey, claiming that Prudential failed to pay overtime to insurance agents in violation of federal and Pennsylvania law, and that improper deductions were made from these agents’ wages in violation of state law. The complaint seeks back
overtime pay and statutory damages, recovery of improper deductions, interest, and attorneys’ fees. In March 2008, the court conditionally certified a nationwide class on the federal overtime claim. Separately, in March 2008, a purported
nationwide class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California, Wang v. Prudential Financial, Inc. and Prudential Insurance, claiming that the Company failed to pay its agents overtime
and provide other benefits in violation of California and federal law and seeking compensatory and punitive damages in unspecified amounts. In September 2008, Wang was transferred to the United States District Court for the District of New
Jersey and consolidated with the Bouder matter. Subsequent amendments to the complaint have resulted in additional allegations involving purported violations of an additional nine states’

  426



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 

overtime and wage payment laws. In February 2010, Prudential moved to decertify the federal overtime class that had been conditionally certified in March 2008 and moved for summary judgment on
the federal overtime claims of the named plaintiffs. In July 2010, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification of the state law claims. In August 2010, the district court granted Prudential’s motion for summary judgment, dismissing the
federal overtime claims. The motion for class certification of the state law claims is pending.    Summary    The Company’s litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. It is possible that the Company’s
results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash
flow for such period. In light of the unpredictability of the Company’s litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. Management believes, however, that, based on information currently known to it, the ultimate outcome of all pending litigation and regulatory matters, after consideration
of applicable reserves and rights to indemnification, is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. 
  427



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
24.    QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) 
  The unaudited quarterly results of
operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are summarized in the table below:   




















 
  
Three Months Ended
 

 
  
March 31
 
  
June 30
 
  
September 30
 
  
December 31
 

 
  
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 

 2011
  



  



  



  




 Total revenues
  
$
10,186
  
  
$
12,247
  
  
$
14,917
  
  
$
11,695
  

 Total benefits and expenses
  
 
9,482
  
  
 
11,075
  
  
 
12,583
  
  
 
10,788
  

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
 
704
  
  
 
1,172
  
  
 
2,334
  
  
 
907
  

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
619
  
  
 
851
  
  
 
1,553
  
  
 
680
  

 Net income
  
 
633
  
  
 
867
  
  
 
1,544
  
  
 
694
  

 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
25
  
  
 
29
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
8
  

 Net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.
  
 
608
  
  
 
838
  
  
 
1,534
  
  
 
686
  

 Basic income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock(1)
  
 
1.19
  
  
 
1.67
  
  
 
3.12
  
  
 
1.24
  

 Diluted income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common
Stock(1)
  
 
1.17
  
  
 
1.65
  
  
 
3.08
  
  
 
1.23
  

 Basic net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock(1)
  
 
1.22
  
  
 
1.70
  
  
 
3.10
  
  
 
1.27
  

 Diluted net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock(1)
  
 
1.20
  
  
 
1.68
  
  
 
3.06
  
  
 
1.26
  

 Basic and diluted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Class B
Stock
  
 
5.00
  
  
 
(0.50
) 
  
 
10.50
  
  
 
40.50
  

 Basic and diluted net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Class B Stock
  
 
5.00
  
  
 
(0.50
) 
  
 
10.50
  
  
 
40.50
  







 2010
  



  



  



  




 Total revenues
  
$
9,247
  
  
$
10,987
  
  
$
9,917
  
  
$
8,049
  

 Total benefits and expenses
  
 
8,238
  
  
 
9,481
  
  
 
8,167
  
  
 
7,922
  

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures
  
 
1,009
  
  
 
1,506
  
  
 
1,750
  
  
 
127
  

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
668
  
  
 
1,089
  
  
 
1,240
  
  
 
176
  

 Net income
  
 
671
  
  
 
1,104
  
  
 
1,242
  
  
 
189
  

 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
(26
) 
  
 
27
  
  
 
(2
) 
  
 
12
  

 Net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.
  
 
697
  
  
 
1,077
  
  
 
1,244
  
  
 
177
  

 Basic income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock(1)
  
 
1.16
  
  
 
1.69
  
  
 
2.49
  
  
 
0.42
  

 Diluted income from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common
Stock(1)
  
 
1.15
  
  
 
1.66
  
  
 
2.46
  
  
 
0.42
  

 Basic net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock(1)
  
 
1.16
  
  
 
1.72
  
  
 
2.50
  
  
 
0.45
  

 Diluted net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Common Stock(1)
  
 
1.15
  
  
 
1.70
  
  
 
2.46
  
  
 
0.45
  

 Basic and diluted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Class B
Stock
  
 
75.50
  
  
 
134.50
  
  
 
33.50
  
  
 
(21.50
) 

 Basic and diluted net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share—Class B Stock
  
 
75.50
  
  
 
134.50
  
  
 
34.00
  
  
 
(21.50
) 
  


(1)
 
Quarterly earnings per share amounts may not add to the full year amounts due to the averaging of shares. 
  Results for the first quarter of 2011 include a pre-tax
charge of $95 million related to an out of period adjustment recorded by the Company. The adjustment is related to the amortization of unrealized losses associated with U.S. dollar-denominated collateralized mortgage-backed securities held by the
Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. consolidated operations (“Gibraltar Life operations”), that were reclassified from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity in December 2008. The adjustment, which had no impact on the carrying value of
these securities, resulted from using the contractual maturities of the securities rather than the expected effective duration of the securities as the basis for the amortization of the unrealized losses that existed when the securities were
reclassified. 
  428



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
 
Supplemental Combining Statements of Financial Position 
December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in millions)   




























 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Consolidated
 
 
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Consolidated
 

 ASSETS
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value
 
$
208,132
  
 
$
46,516
  
 
$
254,648
  
 
$
149,806
  
 
$
45,177
  
 
$
194,983
  

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost
 
 
5,107
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,107
  
 
 
5,226
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,226
  

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value
 
 
19,481
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
19,481
  
 
 
17,771
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
17,771
  

 Other trading account assets, at fair value
 
 
5,228
  
 
 
317
  
 
 
5,545
  
 
 
4,069
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
4,225
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair value
 
 
4,413
  
 
 
3,122
  
 
 
7,535
  
 
 
4,148
  
 
 
3,593
  
 
 
7,741
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans
 
 
26,391
  
 
 
9,040
  
 
 
35,431
  
 
 
23,324
  
 
 
8,507
  
 
 
31,831
  

 Policy loans
 
 
6,263
  
 
 
5,296
  
 
 
11,559
  
 
 
5,290
  
 
 
5,377
  
 
 
10,667
  

 Other long-term investments
 
 
5,830
  
 
 
1,990
  
 
 
7,820
  
 
 
4,589
  
 
 
1,582
  
 
 
6,171
  

 Short-term investments
 
 
8,593
  
 
 
528
  
 
 
9,121
  
 
 
4,133
  
 
 
1,164
  
 
 
5,297
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
 
 
289,438
  
 
 
66,809
  
 
 
356,247
  
 
 
218,356
  
 
 
65,556
  
 
 
283,912
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
13,201
  
 
 
1,050
  
 
 
14,251
  
 
 
12,447
  
 
 
468
  
 
 
12,915
  

 Accrued investment income
 
 
2,177
  
 
 
616
  
 
 
2,793
  
 
 
1,734
  
 
 
643
  
 
 
2,377
  

 Deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
16,123
  
 
 
667
  
 
 
16,790
  
 
 
15,672
  
 
 
763
  
 
 
16,435
  

 Other assets
 
 
15,752
  
 
 
308
  
 
 
16,060
  
 
 
16,161
  
 
 
278
  
 
 
16,439
  

 Separate account assets
 
 
218,380
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
218,380
  
 
 
207,776
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
207,776
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
 
$
555,071
  
 
$
69,450
  
 
$
624,521
  
 
$
472,146
  
 
$
67,708
  
 
$
539,854
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
 



 



 



 



 



 




 LIABILITIES
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Future policy benefits
 
$
119,036
  
 
$
51,423
  
 
$
170,459
  
 
$
82,242
  
 
$
51,632
  
 
$
133,874
  

 Policyholders’ account balances
 
 
129,068
  
 
 
5,484
  
 
 
134,552
  
 
 
100,905
  
 
 
5,536
  
 
 
106,441
  

 Policyholders’ dividends
 
 
286
  
 
 
5,511
  
 
 
5,797
  
 
 
226
  
 
 
3,152
  
 
 
3,378
  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase
 
 
3,118
  
 
 
3,100
  
 
 
6,218
  
 
 
2,557
  
 
 
3,328
  
 
 
5,885
  

 Cash collateral for loaned securities
 
 
2,254
  
 
 
719
  
 
 
2,973
  
 
 
1,614
  
 
 
557
  
 
 
2,171
  

 Income taxes
 
 
8,449
  
 
 
(366
) 
 
 
8,083
  
 
 
6,736
  
 
 
(383
) 
 
 
6,353
  

 Short-term debt
 
 
2,336
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,336
  
 
 
1,982
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,982
  

 Long-term debt
 
 
22,872
  
 
 
1,750
  
 
 
24,622
  
 
 
21,903
  
 
 
1,750
  
 
 
23,653
  

 Other liabilities
 
 
13,034
  
 
 
256
  
 
 
13,290
  
 
 
14,660
  
 
 
753
  
 
 
15,413
  

 Separate account liabilities
 
 
218,380
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
218,380
  
 
 
207,776
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
207,776
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
518,833
  
 
 
67,877
  
 
 
586,710
  
 
 
440,601
  
 
 
66,325
  
 
 
506,926
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
 



 



 



 



 



 












 EQUITY
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
5,418
  
 
 
145
  
 
 
5,563
  
 
 
2,932
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
2,978
  

 Other attributed equity
 
 
30,232
  
 
 
1,428
  
 
 
31,660
  
 
 
28,100
  
 
 
1,337
  
 
 
29,437
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total attributed equity
 
 
35,650
  
 
 
1,573
  
 
 
37,223
  
 
 
31,032
  
 
 
1,383
  
 
 
32,415
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Noncontrolling interests
 
 
588
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
588
  
 
 
513
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
513
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
 
 
36,238
  
 
 
1,573
  
 
 
37,811
  
 
 
31,545
  
 
 
1,383
  
 
 
32,928
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
 
$
555,071
  
 
$
69,450
  
 
$
624,521
  
 
$
472,146
  
 
$
67,708
  
 
$
539,854
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Supplemental Combining
Financial Information 
  429



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
 
Supplemental Combining Statements of Operations 
Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in millions) 
 




























 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Consolidated
 
 
FinancialServicesBusinesses
 
 
Closed BlockBusiness
 
 
Consolidated
 

 REVENUES
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Premiums
 
$
21,420
  
 
$
2,918
  
 
$
24,338
  
 
$
15,253
  
 
$
3,007
  
 
$
18,260
  

 Policy charges and fee income
 
 
3,924
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,924
  
 
 
3,321
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,321
  

 Net investment income
 
 
9,910
  
 
 
3,214
  
 
 
13,124
  
 
 
8,618
  
 
 
3,247
  
 
 
11,865
  

 Asset management fees and other income
 
 
4,790
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
4,828
  
 
 
3,666
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
3,704
  

 Realized investment gains (losses), net
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities
 
 
(1,390
) 
 
 
(812
) 
 
 
(2,202
) 
 
 
(1,937
) 
 
 
(1,079
) 
 
 
(3,016
) 

 Other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities transferred to Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
959
  
 
 
708
  
 
 
1,667
  
 
 
1,373
  
 
 
911
  
 
 
2,284
  

 Other realized investment gains (losses), net
 
 
2,417
  
 
 
949
  
 
 
3,366
  
 
 
820
  
 
 
962
  
 
 
1,782
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total realized investment gains (losses), net
 
 
1,986
  
 
 
845
  
 
 
2,831
  
 
 
256
  
 
 
794
  
 
 
1,050
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
 
 
42,030
  
 
 
7,015
  
 
 
49,045
  
 
 
31,114
  
 
 
7,086
  
 
 
38,200
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BENEFITS AND EXPENSES
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Policyholders’ benefits
 
 
20,132
  
 
 
3,482
  
 
 
23,614
  
 
 
14,773
  
 
 
3,512
  
 
 
18,285
  

 Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances
 
 
4,345
  
 
 
139
  
 
 
4,484
  
 
 
4,069
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
4,209
  

 Dividends to policyholders
 
 
152
  
 
 
2,571
  
 
 
2,723
  
 
 
118
  
 
 
2,071
  
 
 
2,189
  

 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
 
 
3,238
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
3,292
  
 
 
1,370
  
 
 
67
  
 
 
1,437
  

 General and administrative expenses
 
 
9,243
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
9,815
  
 
 
7,117
  
 
 
571
  
 
 
7,688
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total benefits and expenses
 
 
37,110
  
 
 
6,818
  
 
 
43,928
  
 
 
27,447
  
 
 
6,361
  
 
 
33,808
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF OPERATING JOINT VENTURES
 
 
4,920
  
 
 
197
  
 
 
5,117
  
 
 
3,667
  
 
 
725
  
 
 
4,392
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax expense
 
 
1,537
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
1,599
  
 
 
1,058
  
 
 
245
  
 
 
1,303
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF OPERATING JOINT VENTURES
 
 
3,383
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
3,518
  
 
 
2,609
  
 
 
480
  
 
 
3,089
  

 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes
 
 
185
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
84
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
84
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
 
3,568
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
3,703
  
 
 
2,693
  
 
 
480
  
 
 
3,173
  

 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes
 
 
35
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
33
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
 
 
3,603
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
3,738
  
 
 
2,725
  
 
 
481
  
 
 
3,206
  

 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
72
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
72
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
11
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC.
 
$
3,531
  
 
$
135
  
 
$
3,666
  
 
$
2,714
  
 
$
481
  
 
$
3,195
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See Notes to Supplemental Combining
Financial Information 
  430



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
 
Notes to Supplemental Combining Financial Information   
1.    BASIS OF PRESENTATION 
  The supplemental combining financial
information presents the consolidated financial position and results of operations for Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries (together, the “Company”), separately reporting the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block
Business. The Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business are both fully integrated operations of the Company and are not separate legal entities. The supplemental combining financial information presents the results of the Financial
Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as if they were separate reporting entities and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The Company has outstanding two classes of common stock. The
Common Stock reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Class B Stock reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business.   
The Closed Block Business was established on the date of demutualization and includes the assets and liabilities of the Closed Block (see
Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Closed Block). It also includes assets held outside the Closed Block necessary to meet insurance regulatory capital requirements related to products included within the Closed
Block; deferred policy acquisition costs related to the Closed Block policies; the principal amount of the IHC debt (as discussed below and in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and related unamortized debt issuance costs, as well as
an interest rate swap related to the IHC debt; and certain other related assets and liabilities. The Financial Services Businesses consist of the U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance, and
International Insurance divisions and Corporate and Other operations.  
2.    ALLOCATION OF RESULTS 
  This supplemental combining financial
information reflects the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as allocations deemed reasonable by management in order to fairly present the
financial position and results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business on a stand-alone basis. While management considers the allocations utilized to be reasonable, management has the discretion to make
operational and financial decisions that may affect the allocation methods and resulting assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of each business. In addition, management has limited discretion over accounting policies and the appropriate
allocation of earnings between the two businesses. The Company is subject to agreements which provide that, in most instances, the Company may not change the allocation methodology or accounting policies for the allocation of earnings between the
Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business without the prior consent of the Class B Stock holders or IHC debt bond insurer.   
General corporate overhead not directly attributable to a specific business that has been incurred in connection with the generation of
the businesses’ revenues is generally allocated between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business based on the general and administrative expenses of each business as a percentage of the total general and administrative
expenses for all businesses.    PHLLC has
outstanding IHC debt, of which net proceeds of $1.66 billion were allocated to the Financial Services Businesses concurrent with the demutualization on December 18, 2001. The IHC debt is serviced by the cash flows of the Closed Block Business,
and the results of the Closed Block Business reflect interest expense associated with the IHC debt.    Income taxes are allocated between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as if they were separate companies based on the taxable income or losses and other tax characterizations
of each business. If a business generates benefits, such as net operating losses, it is entitled to record such tax benefits to the extent they are expected to be utilized on a consolidated basis. 
  431



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
  Notes to Supplemental Combining Financial Information
  
Holders of Common Stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the
Financial Services Businesses; holders of the Class B Stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the Closed Block Business; and holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment
in the Company.    In the event of a liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company, holders of Common Stock and holders of Class B Stock would be entitled to receive a proportionate share of the net assets of the Company that remain after paying all liabilities and the liquidation
preferences of any preferred stock.    The results
of the Financial Services Businesses are subject to certain risks pertaining to the Closed Block. These include any expenses and liabilities from litigation affecting the Closed Block policies as well as the consequences of certain potential adverse
tax determinations. In connection with the sale of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, the cost of indemnifying the investors with respect to certain matters will be borne by the Financial Services Businesses. 
  432



Table of Contents
ITEM 9.    CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE    None.   
 ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting and the report of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 are included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.    In order to ensure that the
information we must disclose in our filings with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported on a timely basis, the Company’s management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have reviewed and
evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e), as of December 31, 2011. Based on such evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as
of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. No change in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f), occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011, that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION    None.   
PART III   
ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
  We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, known
as “Making the Right Choices,” which applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and our Principal Accounting Officer, as well as to our directors and all other employees. Making the Right Choices is posted on our
website at www.investor.prudential.com. Our code of business conduct and ethics, any amendments and any waiver granted to any of our directors or executive officers are available free of charge on our website at www.investor.prudential.com and in
print to any shareholder who requests it from our Shareholder Services department, whose contact information is provided in Item 15.   
In addition, we have adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, which we refer to as our “Corporate Governance Principles and
Practices.” Our Corporate Governance Principles and Practices are available free of charge on our website at www.investor.prudential.com and in print to any shareholder who requests them from our Shareholder Services department, whose contact
information is provided in Item 15.    Certain
of the information called for by this item is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of Prudential Financial’s definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 8, 2012 to be
filed by Prudential Financial with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2011 (the “Proxy Statement”). Additional information called for by this item is contained in
Item 1C of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant.”    ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
Certain of the information called for by this item is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of the Proxy
Statement. Additional information called for by this Item is contained under Item 12 below of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  433



Table of Contents
ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
The following table provides information as of December 31, 2011, regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity
compensation plans. All outstanding awards relate to our Common Stock. For additional information about our equity compensation plans see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 
















 
  
(a)
 
  
(b)
 
  
(c)
 

 
  
Number of securitiesto be issued uponexercise ofoutstanding options,warrants and
rights
 
  
Weighted-averageexercise price ofoutstandingoptions, warrantsand rights
 
  
Number of securitiesremaining availablefor future issuanceunder equitycompensation
plans(excluding securitiesreflected in (a))
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders—Omnibus Plan—Stock Options
  
 
19,606,310
  
  
$
57.32
  
  
 
N/A
(1) 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders—Omnibus Plan—Restricted Stock Units
  
 
6,318,162
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
(1) 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders—Omnibus Plan—Performance Shares and performance
units(2)
  
 
593,376
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
(1) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total equity compensation plans approved by security holders— Omnibus Plan
  
 
26,517,848
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
22,119,775
  

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders—Board of Directors(3)
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
291,157
  

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders— PSPP(4)
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
20,803,744
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total equity compensation plans approved by security holders
  
 
26,517,848
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
43,214,676
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
  
 
0
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Grand Total
  
 
26,517,848
  
  
 
N/A
  
  
 
43,214,676
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
All shares of Common Stock subject to awards under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the “Omnibus Plan”) may be issued in the form of
stock options, restricted stock and units, and performance shares and performance units (as well as stock appreciation rights, long-term incentive payments and other awards provided for under the Omnibus Plan). The Omnibus Plan does not, by its
terms, allocate any number of shares to a particular type of award. 


(2)
 
These performance shares and units are the target amount awarded, reduced for cancellations and releases to date. The actual number of shares the Compensation Committee
will award at the end of each performance period will range between 0% and 150% of the target for awards granted in 2010 and 2011, based upon a measure of the reported performance of the Company’s Financial Services Businesses relative to
stated goals. There were no performance shares granted in 2009. 


(3)
 
A maximum of 500,000 shares may be issued under the Prudential Financial Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended effective January 1,
2011, all of which have been registered on Form S-8. Participants in the Plan may receive shares of Common Stock as distributions under the plan upon their termination of service on the Board. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, 25,736, 31,994, and 48,210
shares of Common Stock, respectively, were distributed to former participants of the Plan upon their retirement from the Board, leaving a balance of 291,157 shares of Common Stock available for future distribution. The Company will register
additional shares on Form S-8 in the future, if necessary. 


(4)
 
At the Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of the Company held on June 7, 2005, the shareholders approved the Prudential Financial, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (PSPP). The plan is a qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan under Section 423 of the Code, pursuant to which up to 26,367,235 shares of Common Stock may be issued, all of which have been registered on Form S-8. Under the plan employees
may purchase shares based upon quarterly offering periods at an amount equal to the lesser of (1) 85% of the closing market price of the Common Stock on the first day of the quarterly offering period, or (2) 85% of the closing market price
of the Common Stock on the last day of the quarterly offering period. Share purchases under the plan began in 2007. In 2011, there were 1,117,395 shares of Common Stock purchased under the plan, leaving 20,803,744 shares of Common Stock available
for future distribution. Shares purchased in 2011 do not include 320,210 shares related to the October 1 to December 31, 2011 offering period, which were purchased in January 2012. 
  The other information called for by this item is hereby
incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of the Proxy Statement. 
  434



Table of Contents
ITEM 13.    CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE    The information called for by this item is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of the Proxy Statement. 
  ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES    The information
called for by this item is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of the Proxy Statement.   
PART IV   
ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  The following documents are filed as part of this report:
  








 
  
 
  
 PageNumber

1.    
  
 Financial Statements—Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 259

2.    
  
 Financial Statement Schedules:
  



  
 Schedule I—Summary of Investments Other Than Investments in Related Parties
  
 440


  
 Schedule II—Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
  
 441


  
 Schedule III—Supplementary Insurance Information
  
 448


  
 Schedule IV—Reinsurance
  
 451


  
 Schedule V—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  
 452


  
 Any remaining schedules are omitted because they are inapplicable.
  

   3. Exhibits:
   Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and warranties have been
made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosures made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as
may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in the Company’s public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and
(iv) may apply materiality standards different from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the Company’s actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be
relied upon. 
  435



Table of Contents






  2.1
  
 Plan of Reorganization. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1
(No. 333-58524) (the “Registration Statement”).




  3.1
  
 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Prudential Financial, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
the Registrant’s June 9, 2005 Current Report on Form 8-K.




  3.2
  
 Amended and Restated By-laws of Prudential Financial, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s
February 10, 2009 Current Report on Form 8-K.




  4.1
  
 Form of certificate for the Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc., par value $.01 per share. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement.




  4.2
  
 Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Registrant will furnish copies of all instruments defining the
rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant.




  4.3
  
 Inter-Business Transfer and Allocation Policies relating to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Registration Statement.




10.1
  
 Support Agreement between The Prudential Insurance Company of America and Prudential Funding Corporation, dated as of
March 18, 1982. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registration Statement.




10.2
  
 The Prudential Insurance Company of America Deferred Compensation Plan (amended and restated effective as of October 10,
2011). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s September 30, 2011 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.*




10.3
  
 The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Prudential Insurance Company of America. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.6 to the Registration Statement.*




10.4
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Executive Change of Control Severance Program (amended and restated effective as of
November 11, 2008). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.5
  
 Form of Waiver by certain executive officers of certain benefit entitlements under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Executive
Change of Control Severance Program with respect to portions of their annual incentive award compensation granted to them in 2010 in respect of 2009. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2009 Annual Report
on Form 10-K.*




10.6
  
 Prudential Financial Executive Officer Severance Policy (adopted October 10, 2006). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
to the Registrant’s October 11, 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.7
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (amended and restated effective November 11, 2008). Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.8
  
 First Amendment to the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan, effective February 9, 2010. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s February 11, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.9
  
 Form of 2003 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to executive officers under the Prudential Financial,
Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.10
  
 Form of 2004 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to executive officers under the Prudential Financial,
Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.11
  
 Form of 2005 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to executive officers under the Prudential Financial,
Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 14, 2005 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.12
  
 Form of 2006 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to executive officers under the Prudential Financial,
Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 16, 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K.*
  436



Table of Contents






10.13
  
 Form of 2007 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to the chairman, principal executive officer,
principal financial officer and other executive officers under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 13, 2007 Current Report on Form
8-K.*




10.14
  
 Form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to January 18, 2008 stock option grants to John R. Strangfeld, Mark B. Grier,
Bernard B. Winograd and Edward P. Baird under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s January 23, 2008 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.15
  
 Form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to January 18, 2008 stock option grant to Richard J. Carbone under the Prudential
Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s January 23, 2008 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.16
  
 Form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to January 18, 2008 restricted stock unit awards to John R. Strangfeld, Mark B.
Grier, Bernard B. Winograd and Edward P. Baird under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s January 23, 2008 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.17
  
 Form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to January 18, 2008 restricted stock unit award to Richard J. Carbone under the
Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s January 23, 2008 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.18
  
 Form of 2008 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to the chairman, principal executive officer,
principal financial officer and other executive officers under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 12, 2008 Current Report on Form
8-K.*




10.19
  
 Form of 2008 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to Common Stock performance share awards to the chairman, principal executive
officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s February 12, 2008 Current Report on Form
8-K.*




10.20
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions of the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Program relating to stock option grants and restricted stock unit
awards to the chairman and principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February
10, 2009 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.21
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2010 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the
chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units under the 2010 Mid-Term Incentive Program and of stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2010 Long-Term
Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s February 11, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.22
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to special awards in 2010 of restricted stock units to the chairman, principal executive
officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers in connection with the Registrant’s minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
Registrant’s February 11, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.23
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2011 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the
chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units under the 2011 Mid-Term Incentive Program and of stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2011 Long-Term
Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 8, 2011 Current Report on Form 8-K.*
  437



Table of Contents






10.24
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2012 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the
chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units, stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 15, 2012 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.25
  
 Annual Incentive Payment Criteria for Executive Officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s
February 11, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.26
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Summary (as adopted on November 9, 2010). Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.27
  
 The Prudential Supplemental Retirement Plan (amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009). Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.35 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.28
  
 Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2006. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.29
  
 First Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, effective as of January 1, 2008. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s March 31, 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.*




10.30
  
 Second Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, dated December 23, 2008. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.38 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.31
  
 The Prudential Insurance Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009).
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.32
  
 First Amendment to the Prudential Insurance Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2010.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.33
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Compensation Plan (amended and restated effective as of November 11, 2008). Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.41 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.34
  
 The Prudential Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (as amended through October 9, 2007). Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s September 30, 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.*




10.35
  
 First Amendment to The Prudential Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, dated November 20, 2008. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.36
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. 2011 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (effective as of January 1, 2011).
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.37
  
 Prudential Securities Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan for Executives (amended and restated effective January 1,
2009). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.38
  
 PFI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009). Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.45 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*
  438



Table of Contents






10.39
  
 First Amendment to the PFI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2010. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.42 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.40
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Nonqualified Retirement Plan Trust Agreement between Prudential Financial, Inc. and Wachovia Bank,
N.A. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s June 30, 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.*




10.41
  
 The Prudential Severance Plan for Senior Executives (amended and restated effective as of November 1, 2011).
*




10.42
  
 The Prudential Severance Plan for Executives (amended and restated effective as of
November 1, 2011).*




10.43
  
 The Prudential Severance Plan (amended and restated effective as of November 1, 2011).*




10.44
  
 Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2010, between American International Group, Inc. and Prudential Financial,
Inc. (excluding certain exhibits and schedules). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s October 1, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.




12.1
  
 Statement of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.




21.1
  
 Subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc.




23.1
  
 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.




24.1
  
 Powers of Attorney.




31.1
  
 Section 302 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.




31.2
  
 Section 302 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.




32.1
  
 Section 906 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.




32.2
  
 Section 906 Certification of the Chief Financial
Officer.











 
101.INS–XBRL
  
  
 Instance Document.




 
101.SCH–XBRL
  
  
 Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.




 
101.CAL–XBRL
  
  
 Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.




 
101.LAB–XBRL
  
  
 Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.




 
101.PRE–XBRL
  
  
 Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.




 
101.DEF–XBRL
  
  
 Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
  


*
 
This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
  Prudential Financial, Inc. will furnish upon request a copy
of any exhibit listed above upon the payment of a reasonable fee covering the expense of furnishing the copy. Requests should be directed to:   
Shareholder Services  Prudential Financial, Inc.  751 Broad Street, 21st Floor 
Newark, New Jersey 07102 
  439



Table of Contents
Schedule I 
Summary of Investments Other Than Investments in Related Parties 
As of December 31, 2011 (in millions)   
















Type of Investment
  
Cost(1)
 
  
Value
 
  
Amount atwhichshown in theBalance Sheet
 

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale:
  



  



  




 Bonds:
  



  



  




 United States Government and government agencies and authorities
  
$
12,249
  
  
$
15,104
  
  
$
15,104
  

 States, municipalities and political subdivisions
  
 
2,664
  
  
 
3,055
  
  
 
3,055
  

 Foreign governments
  
 
72,442
  
  
 
76,987
  
  
 
76,987
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
12,346
  
  
 
10,693
  
  
 
10,693
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
9,404
  
  
 
9,856
  
  
 
9,856
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
11,519
  
  
 
12,080
  
  
 
12,080
  

 Public utilities
  
 
20,032
  
  
 
21,825
  
  
 
21,825
  

 Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 All other corporate bonds
  
 
99,591
  
  
 
104,871
  
  
 
104,871
  

 Redeemable preferred stock
  
 
177
  
  
 
177
  
  
 
177
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
$
240,424
  
  
$
254,648
  
  
$
254,648
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity:
  




 Bonds:
  



  



  




 Foreign governments
  
$
1,260
  
  
$
1,388
  
  
$
1,260
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
1,213
  
  
 
1,275
  
  
 
1,213
  

 Residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
1,049
  
  
 
1,114
  
  
 
1,049
  

 Commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
428
  
  
 
497
  
  
 
428
  

 All other corporate bonds
  
 
1,157
  
  
 
1,080
  
  
 
1,157
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fixed maturities, held-to-maturity
  
$
5,107
  
  
$
5,354
  
  
$
5,107
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Equity securities:
  




 Common Stocks:
  



  



  




 Public utilities
  
$
149
  
  
$
158
  
  
$
158
  

 Banks, trust and insurance companies
  
 
666
  
  
 
651
  
  
 
651
  

 Industrial, miscellaneous and other
  
 
6,078
  
  
 
6,696
  
  
 
6,696
  

 Nonredeemable preferred stocks
  
 
29
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
30
  

 Perpetual preferred stocks
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total equity securities, available-for-sale
  
$
6,922
  
  
$
7,535
  
  
$
7,535
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities(2)(3)
  
$
19,481
  
  



  
$
19,481
  

 Other trading account assets(2)
  
 
5,545
  
  



  
 
5,545
  

 Commercial mortgage and other loans(4)
  
 
35,431
  
  



  
 
35,431
  

 Policy loans
  
 
11,559
  
  



  
 
11,559
  

 Short-term investments(5)
  
 
9,121
  
  



  
 
9,121
  

 Other long-term investments
  
 
7,820
  
  



  
 
7,820
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 

 Total investments
  
$
341,410
  
  



  
$
356,247
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
Original cost of equities reduced by impairment and, as to fixed maturities, original cost reduced by repayments and impairments and adjusted for amortization of
premiums and accretion of discounts. 


(2)
 
At fair value. 


(3)
 
See Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements for the composition of the Company’s “Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair
value.” 


(4)
 
At carrying value, net of allowance for losses. Includes commercial mortgage and other collateralized loans of $33,128 million and uncollateralized loans of $2,303
million. 


(5)
 
“Short-term investments” include securities purchased under agreements to resell. 
  440



Table of Contents
Schedule II 
Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  Condensed Statements of Financial Positions as of December 31, 2011 and 2010  (in millions)   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 ASSETS
  



 




 Investment contracts from subsidiaries
  
$
521
  
 
$
983
  

 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value (amortized cost: 2011—$189; 2010—$195)
  
 
192
  
 
 
197
  

 Commercial loans
  
 
244
  
 
 
0
  

 Other investments
  
 
1,098
  
 
 
1,086
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investments
  
 
2,055
  
 
 
2,266
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
3,846
  
 
 
5,587
  

 Due from subsidiaries
  
 
709
  
 
 
654
  

 Loans receivable from subsidiaries
  
 
9,798
  
 
 
6,792
  

 Investment in subsidiaries
  
 
42,309
  
 
 
37,501
  

 Other assets
  
 
753
  
 
 
640
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
  
$
59,470
  
 
$
53,440
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
  



 




 LIABILITIES
  



 




 Due to subsidiaries
  
$
1,875
  
 
$
1,400
  

 Loans payable to subsidiaries
  
 
1,318
  
 
 
1,226
  

 Short-term debt
  
 
1,252
  
 
 
769
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
17,300
  
 
 
16,841
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
0
  
 
 
382
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
502
  
 
 
407
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
22,247
  
 
 
21,025
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EQUITY
  



 




 Preferred Stock ($.01 par value; 10,000,000 shares authorized; none issued)
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Common Stock ($.01 par value; 1,500,000,000 shares authorized; 660,111,264 and 660,110,810 shares issued at December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively)
  
 
6
  
 
 
6
  

 Class B Stock ($0.01 par value; 10,000,000 shares authorized; 2,000,000 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively)
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
24,293
  
 
 
24,223
  

 Common Stock held in treasury, at cost (192,072,613 and 176,312,047 shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively)
  
 
(11,920
) 
 
 
(11,173
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
5,563
  
 
 
2,978
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
19,281
  
 
 
16,381
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total equity
  
 
37,223
  
 
 
32,415
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
  
$
59,470
  
 
$
53,440
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   See Notes to Condensed
Financial Information of Registrant 
  441



Table of Contents
Schedule II  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  Condensed Statements of
Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  (in millions) 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 REVENUES
  



 



 




 Net investment income
  
$
45
 
 
$
84
 
 
$
132
 

 Realized investment gains (losses), net
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
185
 
 
 
210
 

 Affiliated interest revenue
  
 
333
 
 
 
212
 
 
 
162
 

 Other income
  
 
249
 
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
53
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
 
604
 
 
 
446
 
 
 
557
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EXPENSES
  



 



 




 General and administrative expenses
  
 
53
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
29
 

 Interest expense
  
 
1,043
 
 
 
941
 
 
 
839
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
1,096
 
 
 
979
 
 
 
868
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LOSS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF SUBSIDIARIES
  
 
(492
) 
 
 
(533
) 
 
 
(311
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income taxes:
  



 



 




 Current
  
 
(292
) 
 
 
73
 
 
 
(172
) 

 Deferred
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
(226
) 
 
 
118
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax benefit
  
 
(321
) 
 
 
(153
) 
 
 
(54
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LOSS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF SUBSIDIARIES
  
 
(171
) 
 
 
(380
) 
 
 
(257
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Equity in earnings of subsidiaries
  
 
3,841
 
 
 
3,575
 
 
 
3,379
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
  
 
3,670
 
 
 
3,195
 
 
 
3,122
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
0
 
 
 
2
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME 
  
$
3,666
 
 
$
3,195
 
 
$
3,124
 

  
 
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   See Notes to Condensed
Financial Information of Registrant 
  442



Table of Contents
Schedule II  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  Condensed Statements of
Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  (in millions) 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
3,666
  
 
$
3,195
  
 
$
3,124
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Equity in earnings of subsidiaries
  
 
(3,841
) 
 
 
(3,575
) 
 
 
(3,379
) 

 Realized investment (gains) losses, net
  
 
23
  
 
 
(185
) 
 
 
(210
) 

 Dividends received from subsidiaries
  
 
2,955
  
 
 
3,863
  
 
 
388
  

 Change in:
  



 



 




 Due to/from subsidiaries, net
  
 
525
  
 
 
224
  
 
 
397
  

 Other, net
  
 
(666
) 
 
 
(996
) 
 
 
860
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from operating activities
  
 
2,662
  
 
 
2,526
  
 
 
1,180
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Proceeds from the sale/maturity of:
  



 



 




 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
 
4
  
 
 
99
  
 
 
0
  

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
4
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Commercial loans
  
 
25
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Long-term investments
  
 
468
  
 
 
799
  
 
 
1,359
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
2,288
  
 
 
1,661
  
 
 
3,049
  

 Payments for the purchase of:
  



 



 




 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale
  
 
0
  
 
 
(98
) 
 
 
(198
) 

 Equity securities, available-for-sale
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Commercial loans
  
 
(269
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
(2,301
) 
 
 
(2,086
) 
 
 
(3,002
) 

 Capital contributions to subsidiaries
  
 
(1,593
) 
 
 
(2,199
) 
 
 
(1,567
) 

 Returns of capital contributions from subsidiaries
  
 
287
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
917
  

 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries
  
 
91
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Loans to subsidiaries, net of maturities
  
 
(2,824
) 
 
 
(1,870
) 
 
 
(1,500
) 

 Other, investing
  
 
24
  
 
 
42
  
 
 
168
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows used in investing activities
  
 
(3,800
) 
 
 
(3,540
) 
 
 
(774
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Cash dividends paid on Common Stock
  
 
(685
) 
 
 
(556
) 
 
 
(328
) 

 Cash dividends paid on Class B Stock
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
(19
) 

 Common Stock acquired
  
 
(999
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Common Stock reissued for exercise of stock options
  
 
122
  
 
 
98
  
 
 
64
  

 Proceeds from the issuance of Common Stock
  
 
0
  
 
 
970
  
 
 
1,391
  

 Proceeds from the issuance of debt (maturities longer than 90 days)
  
 
1,741
  
 
 
3,349
  
 
 
2,640
  

 Repayments of debt (maturities longer than 90 days)
  
 
(704
) 
 
 
(621
) 
 
 
(3,446
) 

 Repayments of loans from subsidiaries
  
 
(45
) 
 
 
(130
) 
 
 
0
  

 Proceeds from loans payable to subsidiaries
  
 
3
  
 
 
149
  
 
 
0
  

 Net change in financing arrangements (maturities of 90 days or less)
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
169
  
 
 
(1,190
) 

 Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements
  
 
2
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
0
  

 Other, financing
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
16
  
 
 
(75
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from (used in) financing activities
  
 
(603
) 
 
 
3,431
  
 
 
(963
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  
 
(1,741
) 
 
 
2,417
  
 
 
(557
) 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF PERIOD
  
 
5,587
  
 
 
3,170
  
 
 
3,727
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD
  
$
3,846
  
 
$
5,587
  
 
$
3,170
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION
  



 



 




 Cash paid during the period for interest
  
$
1,028
  
 
$
910
  
 
$
893
  

 Cash paid (refunds received) during the period for taxes
  
$
135
  
 
$
812
  
 
$
(977
) 






 NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS DURING THE YEAR
  



 



 




 Non-cash capital transactions
  
$
0
  
 
$
106
  
 
$
0
  

 Capital contribution to subsidiary in the form of repayment of loans from subsidiary
  
$
0
  
 
$
(44
) 
 
$
(907
) 

 Capital transactions with subsidiary in the form of a tax receivable/(liability)
  
$
18
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
(313
) 

 Treasury Stock shares issued for stock-based compensation programs
  
$
77
  
 
$
74
  
 
$
100
  
   See Notes to Condensed
Financial Information of Registrant 
  443



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
Schedule II 
Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant    1.    ORGANIZATION AND PRESENTATION   
Prudential Financial, Inc. (“Prudential Financial”) was incorporated on December 28, 1999 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of
The Prudential Insurance Company of America. On December 18, 2001, The Prudential Insurance Company of America converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock life insurance company and became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of
Prudential Financial.    The condensed financial
statements of Prudential Financial reflect its wholly-owned subsidiaries using the equity method of accounting.   
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. 
  2.    OTHER INVESTMENTS 
  Prudential Financial’s other investments as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010 primarily consisted of government agency securities and money market funds.    3.    DEBT AND UNDISTRIBUTED DEMUTUALIZATION CONSIDERATION   
Debt   
A summary of Prudential Financial’s short- and long-term debt is as follows: 
 




















 
  
MaturityDates
 
  
Rate
 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
December 31,2010
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
(in millions)
 

 Short-term debt:
  



  



  



  




 Commercial Paper
  



  



  
$
296
 
  
$
283
 

 Current portion of long-term debt
  



  



  
 
956
 
  
 
486
 


  



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total short-term debt
  



  



  
$
1,252
 
  
$
769
 


  



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Long-term debt:
  



  



  



  




 Fixed rate notes
  
 
2012-2041
  
  
 
2.75%-7.38%
  
  
$
15,441
 
  
$
14,964
 

 Floating rate notes
  
 
2012-2020
  
  
 
(1)
  
  
 
340
 
  
 
358
 

 Junior subordinated notes
  
 
2068
  
  
 
8.88%-9.00%
  
  
 
1,519
 
  
 
1,519
 


  



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt
  



  



  
$
17,300
 
  
$
16,841
 


  



  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 
The interest rates on these floating rate notes are based on either LIBOR or the U.S. Consumer Price Index. The interest rates ranged from 1.8% to 6.6% in 2011 and 0.0%
to 5.5% in 2010.    Short-term Debt
   Commercial Paper 
  Prudential Financial commercial paper borrowings are
generally used to fund the working capital needs of Prudential Financial’s subsidiaries and provide short-term liquidity at Prudential Financial. The weighted average interest rate on outstanding commercial paper was approximately 0.38% and
0.43% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.    Credit Facilities    As of December 31, 2011, Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding maintained an aggregate of $3,750 million of revolving committed credit facilities, of which Prudential Financial is the sole
borrower party to a $2,000 million credit facility. These facilities have terms ranging from three to five years. There were no outstanding borrowings under these credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. 
  444



Table of Contents
Each of the facilities is available to the applicable borrowers up to the aggregate
committed credit and may be used for general corporate purposes, including as backup liquidity for the Company’s commercial paper programs, discussed above. Prudential Financial expects that it may borrow under the five-year credit facility
from time to time to fund its working capital needs and those of its subsidiaries. In addition, up to $300 million of the five-year facility may be drawn in the form of standby letters of credit that can be used to meet the Company’s operating
needs.    The credit facilities contain
representations and warranties, covenants and events of default that are customary for facilities of this type; however, borrowings under the facilities are not contingent on our credit ratings nor subject to material adverse change clauses.
Borrowings under the credit facilities are conditioned on the continued satisfaction of other customary conditions, including the maintenance at all times of consolidated net worth, relating to the Company’s Financial Services Businesses only,
of at least $21.25 billion, which for this purpose is calculated as U.S. GAAP equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and excluding equity of non-controlling interests. Under the applicable credit agreements, the required
minimum level of consolidated net worth will be reduced automatically in the future by an amount equal to 85 percent of the amount of any reduction, on an after-tax basis, in the total U.S. GAAP equity attributable to the Company’s Financial
Services Businesses, resulting from the Company’s expected retrospective application of amended authoritative guidance regarding the deferral of costs relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts. 
  As of December 31, 2011, the consolidated net worth of
the Company’s Financial Services Businesses exceeded the minimum amount required to borrow under the credit facilities.   
Long-term Debt   
Junior Subordinated Notes   
In June and July 2008, Prudential Financial issued $600 million of 8.875% fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated notes to
institutional investors and $920 million of 9.0% fixed-rate junior subordinated notes to retail investors. Both issuances are considered hybrid capital securities, which receive enhanced equity treatment from the rating agencies. Both series of
notes have a scheduled maturity of June 15, 2038 and a final maturity of June 15, 2068. Prudential Financial is required to use commercially reasonable efforts, subject to market disruption events, to raise sufficient proceeds from the
issuance of specified qualifying capital securities, which include hybrid capital securities, to repay the principal of the notes at their scheduled maturity. For the institutional notes, interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 8.875%
until June 15, 2018, from which date interest is payable quarterly at a floating rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 5.00%. Prudential Financial may redeem the institutional notes, subject to the terms of the replacement capital covenant, or RCC,
as discussed below, in whole or in part, on or after June 15, 2018 at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest or prior to June 15, 2018 at a make-whole price. Prudential Financial may redeem the retail notes, subject to the
terms of the RCC as discussed below, on or after June 15, 2013, in whole or in part, at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest or prior to June 15, 2013, in whole, at a make-whole price. Both series of notes may also
be redeemed in whole upon the occurrence of certain defined events. Prudential Financial has the right to defer interest payments on either or both series of notes for a period up to ten years, during which time interest will be compounded. If
Prudential Financial were to exercise its right to defer interest it will be required, commencing on the earlier of (i) the first interest payment date on which current interest is paid after the deferral period or (ii) the fifth
anniversary of the deferral period, to issue specified alternative payment securities, which include but are not limited to Common Stock, to satisfy its obligation with respect to the deferred interest. In connection with the issuance of both series
of notes, Prudential Financial entered into a RCC for the benefit of holders of the Company’s 6.625% Senior Notes due 2037. Under the RCC, Prudential Financial agrees that it will not repay, redeem, defease, or purchase the notes prior to
June 15, 2048, unless it has received proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement capital securities, which include but are not limited to hybrid capital securities as well as Common Stock. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of
certain events, including acceleration due to an event of default.    Other    In order to modify exposure to interest rate movements, Prudential Financial utilizes derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, in conjunction with some of its debt issues. The impact of
these derivative 
  445



Table of Contents

instruments are not reflected in the rates presented in the table above. For those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment, interest expense was decreased by $8 million, $15
million, and $5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.    Schedule of Long-term Debt Maturities    The following table presents, as of December 31, 2011, Prudential Financial’s contractual maturities for long-term debt:   
























 
  
Total
 
  
Less than 1Year
 
  
1-3 Years
 
  
3-5 Years
 
  
More than 5Years
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Long-term debt
  
$
17,300
 
  
$
0
 
  
$
3,299
 
  
$
3,005
 
  
$
10,996
 
   Undistributed Demutualization
Consideration    “Other
liabilities” include liabilities of $2 million and $4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, for undistributed demutualization consideration payable to eligible policyholders whom the Company has been unable to locate as
of those dates. In 2011 and 2010, Prudential Financial paid $2 million and $1 million, respectively, in demutualization consideration to eligible policyholders whom the Company has been able to locate and to governmental authorities in respect of
other eligible policyholders whom it continues to be unable to locate. Prudential Financial remains obligated to disburse the remaining undistributed demutualization consideration to the governmental authorities if the Company is unable to establish
contact with eligible policyholders within time periods prescribed by state unclaimed property laws.    4.    DIVIDENDS AND RETURNS OF CAPITAL   
For the years ended December 31, Prudential Financial received dividends and/or returns of capital from the following holding
companies:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in millions)
 

 Prudential Holdings, LLC
  
$
1,592
 
  
$
3,000
 
  
$
0
 

 Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation
  
 
588
 
  
 
470
 
  
 
28
 

 International Insurance and Investments Holding Companies
  
 
478
 
  
 
205
 
  
 
952
 

 Prudential Asset Management Holding Company
  
 
468
 
  
 
247
 
  
 
266
 

 Other Holding Companies
  
 
116
 
  
 
53
 
  
 
59
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,242
 
  
$
3,975
 
  
$
1,305
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   5.    COMMITMENTS AND
GUARANTEES    Prudential Financial has issued a
subordinated guarantee covering a subsidiary’s domestic commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2011, there was $870 million outstanding under this commercial paper program.    On December 6, 2011, the Company completed the sale of the real estate brokerage franchise and relocation
businesses. The Company has agreed to provide the buyer with transitional financing for the transferred relocation services business. The Company provided two six month facilities with a total of $275 million of available financing and one three
year facility with $155 million of available financing. The total remaining financing available under the facilities was $186 million as of December 31, 2011. 
  On July 1, 2011, the Company completed the sale of its
Global Commodities Business to Jefferies Group, Inc. In the ordinary course of business, Prudential Financial provided guarantees of the obligations of the Global Commodities Business under commodity, financial and foreign exchange futures, swap and
forward contracts. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s exposure under these guarantees was approximately $99 million. The Company has agreed to keep these guarantees outstanding for a period of 18 months following the closing, including
with respect to business conducted by the transferred entities with beneficiaries of these guarantees subsequent to the closing date. Jefferies has agreed to indemnify the Company for any amounts payable under the guarantees and, under certain
conditions, to provide collateral for such obligation. 
  446



Table of Contents
Prudential Financial is also subject to other financial guarantees and indemnity
arrangements, including those made in the normal course of businesses guaranteeing the performance of, or representations made by, Prudential Financial subsidiaries. Prudential Financial has provided indemnities and guarantees related to
acquisitions, dispositions, investments, debt issuances and other transactions, including those provided as part of its on-going operations that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by
Prudential Financial or its subsidiaries. These obligations are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law, such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject
to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, it is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these
guarantees. At December 31, 2011, Prudential Financial has accrued liabilities of $7 million associated with all other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements. 
  447



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
Schedule III 
Supplementary Insurance Information  As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2011 (in millions)   








































 Segment
  
DeferredPolicyAcquisitionCosts
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits,Losses,Claims,Expenses
 
  
UnearnedPremiums
 
  
OtherPolicyClaimsandBenefitsPayable
 
 
Premiums,PolicyChargesand FeeIncome
 
 
NetInvestmentIncome
 
  
Benefits,Claims,LossesandSettlementExpenses
 
  
Amortizationof DAC
 
  
OtherOperatingExpenses
 

 Individual Annuities
  
$
2,671
  
 
$
4,463
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
11,932
  
 
$
1,881
  
 
$
790
  
  
$
1,511
  
  
$
1,882
  
  
$
1,273
  

 Retirement
  
 
270
  
 
 
15,665
  
  
 
323
  
  
 
45,946
  
 
 
973
  
 
 
3,178
  
  
 
3,592
  
  
 
59
  
  
 
917
  

 Asset Management
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
119
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
1,529
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
  
 
2,941
  
 
 
20,128
  
  
 
323
  
  
 
57,878
  
 
 
2,854
  
 
 
4,087
  
  
 
5,103
  
  
 
1,966
  
  
 
3,719
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Individual Life
  
 
4,218
  
 
 
4,487
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
9,501
  
 
 
1,668
  
 
 
978
  
  
 
1,443
  
  
 
174
  
  
 
766
  

 Group Insurance
  
 
422
  
 
 
6,529
  
  
 
178
  
  
 
7,442
  
 
 
5,282
  
 
 
686
  
  
 
5,054
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
781
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
  
 
4,640
  
 
 
11,016
  
  
 
178
  
  
 
16,943
  
 
 
6,950
  
 
 
1,664
  
  
 
6,497
  
  
 
200
  
  
 
1,547
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 International Insurance
  
 
8,668
  
 
 
86,700
  
  
 
287
  
  
 
55,066
  
 
 
15,586
  
 
 
3,749
  
  
 
12,904
  
  
 
1,138
  
  
 
2,888
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 International Insurance Division
  
 
8,668
  
 
 
86,700
  
  
 
287
  
  
 
55,066
  
 
 
15,586
  
 
 
3,749
  
  
 
12,904
  
  
 
1,138
  
  
 
2,888
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Corporate and Other
  
 
(126
) 
 
 
403
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
(533
) 
 
 
(46
) 
 
 
410
  
  
 
125
  
  
 
(66
) 
  
 
1,089
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Financial Services Businesses
  
 
16,123
  
 
 
118,247
  
  
 
789
  
  
 
129,354
  
 
 
25,344
  
 
 
9,910
  
  
 
24,629
  
  
 
3,238
  
  
 
9,243
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Closed Block Business
  
 
667
  
 
 
51,423
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
10,995
  
 
 
2,918
  
 
 
3,214
  
  
 
6,192
  
  
 
54
  
  
 
572
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
16,790
  
 
$
169,670
  
  
$
789
  
  
$
140,349
  
 
$
28,262
  
 
$
13,124
  
  
$
30,821
  
  
$
3,292
  
  
$
9,815
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  448



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
Schedule III 
Supplementary Insurance Information  As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 (in millions)   








































 Segment
  
DeferredPolicyAcquisitionCosts
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits,Losses,ClaimsExpenses
 
  
UnearnedPremiums
 
  
OtherPolicyClaimsandBenefitsPayable
 
 
Premiums,PolicyChargesand FeeIncome
 
 
NetInvestmentIncome
 
  
Benefits,Claims,LossesandSettlementExpenses
 
  
Amortizationof DAC
 
  
OtherOperatingExpenses
 

 Individual Annuities
  
$
3,392
  
 
$
1,244
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
12,398
  
 
$
1,475
  
 
$
878
  
  
$
883
  
  
$
244
  
  
$
1,018
  

 Retirement
  
 
283
  
 
 
14,742
  
  
 
241
  
  
 
44,780
  
 
 
1,267
  
 
 
3,235
  
  
 
4,285
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
909
  

 Asset Management
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
124
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
1,347
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
  
 
3,675
  
 
 
15,986
  
  
 
241
  
  
 
57,178
  
 
 
2,742
  
 
 
4,237
  
  
 
5,168
  
  
 
302
  
  
 
3,274
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Individual Life
  
 
4,261
  
 
 
3,971
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
8,774
  
 
 
1,689
  
 
 
903
  
  
 
1,404
  
  
 
218
  
  
 
693
  

 Group Insurance
  
 
392
  
 
 
5,913
  
  
 
171
  
  
 
7,194
  
 
 
4,685
  
 
 
668
  
  
 
4,487
  
  
 
25
  
  
 
733
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
  
 
4,653
  
 
 
9,884
  
  
 
171
  
  
 
15,968
  
 
 
6,374
  
 
 
1,571
  
  
 
5,891
  
  
 
243
  
  
 
1,426
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 International Insurance
  
 
7,494
  
 
 
55,307
  
  
 
249
  
  
 
29,000
  
 
 
9,516
  
 
 
2,462
  
  
 
7,906
  
  
 
866
  
  
 
1,404
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 International Insurance Division
  
 
7,494
  
 
 
55,307
  
  
 
249
  
  
 
29,000
  
 
 
9,516
  
 
 
2,462
  
  
 
7,906
  
  
 
866
  
  
 
1,404
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Corporate and Other
  
 
(150
) 
 
 
403
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
(1,015
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
348
  
  
 
(5
) 
  
 
(41
) 
  
 
1,013
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Financial Services Businesses
  
 
15,672
  
 
 
81,580
  
  
 
662
  
  
 
101,131
  
 
 
18,574
  
 
 
8,618
  
  
 
18,960
  
  
 
1,370
  
  
 
7,117
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Closed Block Business
  
 
763
  
 
 
51,632
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
8,688
  
 
 
3,007
  
 
 
3,247
  
  
 
5,723
  
  
 
67
  
  
 
571
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total 
  
$
16,435
  
 
$
133,212
  
  
$
662
  
  
$
109,819
  
 
$
21,581
  
 
$
11,865
  
  
$
24,683
  
  
$
1,437
  
  
$
7,688
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  449



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
Schedule III 
Supplementary Insurance Information  As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2009 (in millions)   








































 Segment
  
DeferredPolicyAcquisitionCosts
 
 
FuturePolicyBenefits,Losses,Claims,Expenses
 
  
UnearnedPremiums
 
  
OtherPolicyClaimsandBenefitsPayable
 
 
Premiums,PolicyChargesand FeeIncome
 
 
NetInvestmentIncome
 
  
Benefits,Claims,LossesandSettlementExpenses
 
  
Amortizationof DAC
 
  
OtherOperatingExpenses
 

 Individual Annuities
  
$
2,449
  
 
$
1,487
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
13,938
  
 
$
886
  
 
$
979
  
  
$
762
  
  
$
482
  
  
$
875
  

 Retirement
  
 
273
  
 
 
13,701
  
  
 
147
  
  
 
44,216
  
 
 
800
  
 
 
3,309
  
  
 
4,115
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
854
  

 Asset Management
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
90
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
1,198
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division
  
 
2,722
  
 
 
15,188
  
  
 
147
  
  
 
58,154
  
 
 
1,686
  
 
 
4,378
  
  
 
4,877
  
  
 
522
  
  
 
2,927
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Individual Life
  
 
4,179
  
 
 
3,461
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
8,088
  
 
 
1,711
  
 
 
809
  
  
 
1,305
  
  
 
186
  
  
 
715
  

 Group Insurance
  
 
371
  
 
 
5,500
  
  
 
161
  
  
 
6,796
  
 
 
4,535
  
 
 
623
  
  
 
4,252
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
687
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division
  
 
4,550
  
 
 
8,961
  
  
 
161
  
  
 
14,884
  
 
 
6,246
  
 
 
1,432
  
  
 
5,557
  
  
 
208
  
  
 
1,402
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 International Insurance
  
 
6,627
  
 
 
48,849
  
  
 
230
  
  
 
25,186
  
 
 
8,245
  
 
 
2,172
  
  
 
6,646
  
  
 
776
  
  
 
1,304
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 International Insurance Division
  
 
6,627
  
 
 
48,849
  
  
 
230
  
  
 
25,186
  
 
 
8,245
  
 
 
2,172
  
  
 
6,646
  
  
 
776
  
  
 
1,304
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Corporate and Other
  
 
(148
) 
 
 
394
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
(1,818
) 
 
 
(49
) 
 
 
230
  
  
 
(77
) 
  
 
(33
) 
  
 
1,022
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Financial Services Businesses
  
 
13,751
  
 
 
73,392
  
  
 
539
  
  
 
96,406
  
 
 
16,128
  
 
 
8,212
  
  
 
17,003
  
  
 
1,473
  
  
 
6,655
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Closed Block Business
  
 
827
  
 
 
51,776
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
6,514
  
 
 
3,250
  
 
 
3,178
  
  
 
5,125
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
579
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
14,578
  
 
$
125,168
  
  
$
539
  
  
$
102,920
  
 
$
19,378
  
 
$
11,390
  
  
$
22,128
  
  
$
1,494
  
  
$
7,234
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  450



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
Schedule IV 
Reinsurance 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in millions) 
 
























 
  
GrossAmount
 
  
Ceded toOtherCompanies
 
  
AssumedfromOtherCompanies
 
  
NetAmount
 
  
Percentageof AmountAssumedto Net
 

 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 Life Insurance Face Amount In Force
  
$
3,596,957
  
  
$
428,419
  
  
$
24,359
  
  
$
3,192,897
  
  
 
0.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Premiums:
  



  



  



  



  




 Life Insurance
  
$
22,343
  
  
$
1,302
  
  
$
126
  
  
$
21,167
  
  
 
0.6
% 

 Accident and Health Insurance
  
 
3,220
  
  
 
51
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
3,171
  
  
 
0.1
% 

 Property & Liability Insurance
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Premiums
  
$
25,563
  
  
$
1,353
  
  
$
128
  
  
$
24,338
  
  
 
0.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 2010
  



  



  



  



  




 Life Insurance Face Amount In Force
  
$
3,251,332
  
  
$
421,442
  
  
$
25,058
  
  
$
2,854,948
  
  
 
0.9
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Premiums:
  



  



  



  



  




 Life Insurance
  
$
17,646
  
  
$
1,224
  
  
$
163
  
  
$
16,585
  
  
 
1.0
% 

 Accident and Health Insurance
  
 
1,714
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,675
  
  
 
0.0
% 

 Property & Liability Insurance
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Premiums
  
$
19,360
  
  
$
1,263
  
  
$
163
  
  
$
18,260
  
  
 
0.9
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 2009
  



  



  



  



  




 Life Insurance Face Amount In Force
  
$
2,971,838
  
  
$
394,814
  
  
$
18,113
  
  
$
2,595,137
  
  
 
0.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Premiums:
  



  



  



  



  




 Life Insurance
  
$
16,266
  
  
$
1,311
  
  
$
90
  
  
$
15,045
  
  
 
0.6
% 

 Accident and Health Insurance
  
 
1,521
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
1,500
  
  
 
0.0
% 

 Property & Liability Insurance
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Premiums
  
$
17,787
  
  
$
1,332
  
  
$
90
  
  
$
16,545
  
  
 
0.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  451



Table of Contents
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 
Schedule V 
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in millions)   




























  
  
 
 
  
Additions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 Description
  
Balance atBeginningof Period
 
  
Charged toCosts andExpenses
 
 
Other
 
 
Deductions
 
 
Effect ofForeignExchange Rates
 
  
Balanceat Endof Period
 

 2011
  



  



 



 



 



  




 Allowance for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans
  
$
575
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
210
(a) 
 
$
2
  
  
$
367
  

 Valuation allowance on deferred tax asset
  
 
386
  
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
11
  
 
 
3 
(b) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
392
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
961
  
  
$
(2
) 
 
$
11
  
 
$
213
  
 
$
2
  
  
$
759
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 2010
  



  



 



 



 



  




 Allowance for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans
  
$
698
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
125
(a) 
 
$
2
  
  
$
575
  

 Valuation allowance on deferred tax asset
  
 
276
  
  
 
119
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
10
(b) 
 
 
1
  
  
 
386
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
974
  
  
$
119
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
135
  
 
$
3
  
  
$
961
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 2009
  



  



 



 



 



  




 Allowance for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans
  
$
332
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
468
(c) 
 
$
105
(e) 
 
$
3
  
  
$
698
  

 Valuation allowance on deferred tax asset
  
 
265
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
124
(d) 
 
 
121
(b) 
 
 
4
  
  
 
276
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
597
  
  
$
4
  
 
$
592
  
 
$
226
  
 
$
7
  
  
$
974
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(a)
 
Represents release of allowance for losses and charge-offs, net of recoveries. 


(b)
 
Represents, primarily, utilization and expiration of net operating losses. 


(c)
 
Represents additions to allowance for losses. 


(d)
 
Represents additional valuation allowance to offset the establishment of gross deferred tax asset. 


(e)
 
Represents charge-offs, net of recoveries. 
  452



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the city of Newark, and state of New Jersey, on the 24th day of February, 2012. 
 






 Prudential Financial, Inc.




By:
 
/s/    RICHARD J.
CARBONE        

 Name:
 
Richard J. Carbone

 Title:
 
Executive Vice President
   Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 24, 2012: 
 






 Name
  
 Title




 /s/    JOHN R. STRANGFELD,
JR.         John R. Strangfeld, Jr.
  
Chief Executive Officer,President and Director




 /s/    RICHARD J.
CARBONE         Richard J. Carbone
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer(Principal Financial Officer)




 /s/    PETER B.
SAYRE         Peter B. Sayre
  
 Senior Vice President and Principal Accounting Officer




 THOMAS J. BALTIMORE, JR.*
Thomas J. Baltimore, Jr.
  
Director




 GORDON M. BETHUNE*
Gordon M. Bethune
  
Director




 GASTON CAPERTON*
Gaston Caperton
  
Director




 GILBERT F. CASELLAS*
Gilbert F. Casellas
  
Director




 JAMES G. CULLEN*
James G. Cullen
  
Director




 WILLIAM H. GRAY, III*
William H. Gray, III
  
Director




 MARK B. GRIER*
Mark B. Grier
  
Director




 CONSTANCE J. HORNER*
Constance J. Horner
  
Director
  453



Table of Contents






 Name
  
 Title




 MARTINA HUND-MEJEAN*
Martina Hund-Mejean
  
Director




 KARL J. KRAPEK*
Karl J. Krapek
  
Director




 CHRISTINE A. POON*
Christine A. Poon
  
Director




 JAMES A. UNRUH*
James A. Unruh
  
Director
  






 By:*
 
 /s/    RICHARD J.
CARBONE        


 
Attorney-in-fact

  454



Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX   









  2.1
  
 Plan of Reorganization. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1
(No. 333-58524) (the “Registration Statement”).




  3.1
  
 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Prudential Financial, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
the Registrant’s June 9, 2005 Current Report on Form 8-K.




  3.2
  
 Amended and Restated By-laws of Prudential Financial, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s
February 10, 2009 Current Report on Form 8-K.




  4.1
  
 Form of certificate for the Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc., par value $.01 per share. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement.




  4.2
  
 Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Registrant will furnish copies of all instruments defining the
rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant.




  4.3
  
 Inter-Business Transfer and Allocation Policies relating to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Registration Statement.




10.1
  
 Support Agreement between The Prudential Insurance Company of America and Prudential Funding Corporation, dated as of
March 18, 1982. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registration Statement.




10.2
  
 The Prudential Insurance Company of America Deferred Compensation Plan (amended and restated effective as of October 10,
2011). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s September 30, 2011 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.*




10.3
  
 The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Prudential Insurance Company of America. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.6 to the Registration Statement.*




10.4
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Executive Change of Control Severance Program (amended and restated effective as of November 11,
2008). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.5
  
 Form of Waiver by certain executive officers of certain benefit entitlements under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Executive
Change of Control Severance Program with respect to portions of their annual incentive award compensation granted to them in 2010 in respect of 2009. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2009 Annual Report
on Form 10-K.*




10.6
  
 Prudential Financial Executive Officer Severance Policy (adopted October 10, 2006). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
to the Registrant’s October 11, 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.7
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (amended and restated effective November 11, 2008). Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.8
  
 First Amendment to the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan, effective February 9, 2010. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s February 11, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.9
  
 Form of 2003 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to executive officers under the Prudential Financial,
Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.10
  
 Form of 2004 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to executive officers under the Prudential Financial,
Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.11
  
 Form of 2005 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to executive officers under the Prudential Financial,
Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 14, 2005 Current Report on Form 8-K.*
  455



Table of Contents









10.12
  
 Form of 2006 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to executive officers under the Prudential Financial,
Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 16, 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.13
  
 Form of 2007 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to the chairman, principal executive officer,
principal financial officer and other executive officers under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 13, 2007 Current Report on Form
8-K.*




10.14
  
 Form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to January 18, 2008 stock option grants to John R. Strangfeld, Mark B. Grier,
Bernard B. Winograd and Edward P. Baird under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s January 23, 2008 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.15
  
 Form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to January 18, 2008 stock option grant to Richard J. Carbone under the Prudential
Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s January 23, 2008 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.16
  
 Form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to January 18, 2008 restricted stock unit awards to John R. Strangfeld, Mark B.
Grier, Bernard B. Winograd and Edward P. Baird under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s January 23, 2008 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.17
  
 Form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to January 18, 2008 restricted stock unit award to Richard J. Carbone under the
Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s January 23, 2008 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.18
  
 Form of 2008 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to the chairman, principal executive officer,
principal financial officer and other executive officers under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 12, 2008 Current Report on Form
8-K.*




10.19
  
 Form of 2008 Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to Common Stock performance share awards to the chairman, principal executive
officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s February 12, 2008 Current Report on Form
8-K.*




10.20
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions of the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Program relating to stock option grants and restricted stock unit
awards to the chairman and principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February
10, 2009 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.21
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2010 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the
chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units under the 2010 Mid-Term Incentive Program and of stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2010 Long-Term
Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s February 11, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.22
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to special awards in 2010 of restricted stock units to the chairman, principal executive
officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers in connection with the Registrant’s minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
Registrant’s February 11, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.*
  456



Table of Contents









10.23
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2011 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the
chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units under the 2011 Mid-Term Incentive Program and of stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2011 Long-Term
Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 8, 2011 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.24
  
 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2012 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the
chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units, stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s February 15, 2012 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.25
  
 Annual Incentive Payment Criteria for Executive Officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s
February 11, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.*




10.26
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Summary (as adopted on November 9, 2010). Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.27
  
 The Prudential Supplemental Retirement Plan (amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009). Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.35 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.28
  
 Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2006. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.29
  
 First Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, effective as of January 1, 2008. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s March 31, 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.*




10.30
  
 Second Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, dated December 23, 2008. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.38 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.31
  
 The Prudential Insurance Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009).
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.32
  
 First Amendment to the Prudential Insurance Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2010.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.33
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Compensation Plan (amended and restated effective as of November 11, 2008). Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.41 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.34
  
 The Prudential Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (as amended through October 9, 2007). Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s September 30, 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.*




10.35
  
 First Amendment to The Prudential Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, dated November 20, 2008. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.36
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. 2011 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (effective as of January 1, 2011).
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*
  457



Table of Contents









10.37
  
 Prudential Securities Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan for Executives (amended and restated effective January 1,
2009). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.38
  
 PFI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009). Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.45 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.39
  
 First Amendment to the PFI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2010. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.42 to the Registrant’s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.*




10.40
  
 Prudential Financial, Inc. Nonqualified Retirement Plan Trust Agreement between Prudential Financial, Inc. and Wachovia Bank,
N.A. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s June 30, 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.*




10.41
  
 The Prudential Severance Plan for Senior Executives (amended and restated effective as of November 1, 2011).
*




10.42
  
 The Prudential Severance Plan for Executives (amended and restated effective as of November 1, 2011).*




10.43
  
 The Prudential Severance Plan (amended and restated effective as of November 1, 2011).*




10.44
  
 Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2010, between American International Group, Inc. and Prudential Financial,
Inc. (excluding certain exhibits and schedules). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s October 1, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K.




12.1
  
 Statement of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.




21.1
  
 Subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc.




23.1
  
 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.




24.1
  
 Powers of Attorney.




31.1
  
 Section 302 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.




31.2
  
 Section 302 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.




32.1
  
 Section 906 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.




32.2
  
 Section 906 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.










101.INS–XBRL
  
 Instance Document.




101.SCH–XBRL
  
 Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.




101.CAL–XBRL
  
 Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.




101.LAB–XBRL
  
 Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.




101.PRE–XBRL
  
 Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.




101.DEF–XBRL
  
 Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
  


*
 
This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
  458




