
10-K
1
d263538d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
    
(Mark One) 


þ
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011  or   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from            
to            .  Commission File Number 001-33092
    
LEMAITRE VASCULAR, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   
   






Delaware
 
04-2825458

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

63 Second Avenue, Burlington, Massachusetts
 
01803

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code 781-221-2266 
   
Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share
 
The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC
 Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes:  ¨    No:  þ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes:  ¨    No:  þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes:  þ    No:  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).     Yes  þ    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.    ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting company” in
Rule12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  Large accelerated
filer  ¨        Accelerated
filer  ¨         Non-accelerated filer  ¨ (Do not check if a small reporting
company)        Smaller reporting company  þ  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule12b-2 of the Act).
    Yes:  ¨    No:  þ 
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the last sale
price for such stock on June 30, 2011: $59,273,098. The number of shares held by stockholders whose ownership exceeds 5% of the registrant’s common stock outstanding at June 30, 2011 is based on Schedules 13D and 13G filed by such
stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 and subsequent reports, if any, filed by such stockholders pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Exclusion of such shares should not be construed to
indicate that any such person possesses the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the registrant. At
March 21, 2012, the registrant had 15,240,766 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, outstanding.  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates information by reference from the registrant’s
definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year covered by this annual report.   
   


Table of Contents
LEMAITRE VASCULAR 
2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT  TABLE OF CONTENTS   










 PART I 
  




 Item 1.
  
 Business 
  
 
1
  

 Item 1A.
  
 Risk Factors 
  
 
17
  

 Item 1B.
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments 
  
 
39
  

 Item 2.
  
 Properties 
  
 
39
  

 Item 3.
  
 Legal Proceedings 
  
 
39
  

 Item 4.
  
 Mine Safety Disclosures 
  
 
39
  

 PART II 
  

  




 Item 5.
  
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

  
 
40
  

 Item 6.
  
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
43
  

 Item 7.
  
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
44
  

 Item 7A.
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk
  
 
62
  

 Item 8.
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
62
  

 Item 9.
  
 Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
62
  

 Item 9A.
  
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
62
  

 Item 9B.
  
 Other Information
  
 
63
  

 PART III
  

  




 Item 10.
  
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
64
  

 Item 11.
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
64
  

 Item 12.
  
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
64
  

 Item 13.
  
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
65
  

 Item 14.
  
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
65
  

 PART IV
  

  




 Item 15.
  
 Exhibits and Financial Statements Schedules 
  
 
66
  

 SIGNATURES 
  
 
69
  



Table of Contents
PART I 
SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the federal securities law) that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements, other than
statements of historical facts, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding our strategy, future operations, future financial position, future net sales, projected costs, projected expenses, prospects and plans and objectives of management
are forward-looking statements. The words “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “projects,” “will,” “would,”
and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections
about future events. Although we believe that the expectations underlying any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, these expectations may prove to be incorrect, and all of these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should
one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions, projections, or expectations prove incorrect, our actual results, performance, or financial condition may vary materially and adversely from those
anticipated, estimated, or expected. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in the section entitled “Risk Factors,” that we believe could cause actual
results or events to differ materially from the forward-looking statements that we make. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures, or investments we may
make. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.  The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other Securities and
Exchange Commission filings.  Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “LeMaitre Vascular,”
“we,” “our,” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  LeMaitre, AlboGraft, AnastoClip, AnastoClip GC, EndoHelix, EndoRE, Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotome, Flexcel, Glow ‘N Tell, Grice, Inahara-Pruitt, InvisiGrip, LeverEdge, LifeSpan, MollRing Cutter,
NovaSil, Periscope, Pruitt, Pruitt F3, Pruitt-Inahara, Reddick, VascuTape, XenoSure, and the LeMaitre Vascular logo are registered trademarks of LeMaitre Vascular, and AlboSure, Martin, MollRing MultiTASC, Reddick-Saye, UnBalloon and VCS are
unregistered trademarks of LeMaitre Vascular. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes the registered and unregistered trademarks of other persons.   


Item 1.
Business  Overview 
LeMaitre Vascular is a global provider of medical devices and implants for the treatment of peripheral vascular disease. We develop,
manufacture, and market vascular devices to address the needs of vascular surgeons. Our diversified portfolio of peripheral vascular devices consists of brand name products that are used in arteries and veins outside of the heart and are well known
to vascular surgeons, including the Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotome, the Pruitt F3 Carotid Shunt, and VascuTape Radiopaque Tape.  We have grown our business by using a three-pronged strategy: competing in niche markets, expanding our worldwide direct sales force, and acquiring and developing complementary vascular devices. Since
1998 we have built our sales force from zero to 78 direct sales representatives as of December 31, 2011 and we have completed a number of vascular device acquisitions.  We estimate that peripheral vascular disease affects more than 20 million people worldwide. We estimate that the annual worldwide market for all peripheral vascular devices is approximately $3
billion and that the 
  1 


Table of Contents

annual worldwide market addressed by our core product lines approximates $750 million. We believe that this market will grow due to the increase in the incidence and diagnosis of peripheral
vascular disease, a shift to higher priced endovascular devices, and the adoption of western healthcare standards by the developing world. We believe that our strong brands, established sales force, evolving suite of peripheral vascular devices, and
broad network of vascular surgeon customers position us to capture an increasing share of this large and growing market.  We
sell 12 product lines, most of which are used in open vascular surgery and some of which are used in endovascular procedures. For 2011, 2010, and 2009, our Valvulotomes, Balloon Catheters, and Carotid Shunt product categories have each comprised
more than 10% of our revenues. In none of those years, including 2011 did any single product line account for more than 25% of our revenues.  Historically, we have been a leading provider of vascular surgery products in niche product markets characterized by low or limited competition. More recently we have sought to leverage our market
leadership in these niche product markets by selling complementary products in more competitive, larger market segments. In addition, our vascular surgeon customers are increasingly performing minimally invasive endovascular procedures, presenting
us with attractive opportunities to sell new devices that address their changing product needs.  We sell our products
primarily through a direct sales force. Our sales force was comprised of 78 field sales representatives in North America, the European Union, and Japan as of December 31, 2011. We also sell our products through distributors in countries where
we do not have a direct sales force. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 93% of our net sales were generated through our direct sales force, and no single customer accounted for more than 1% of our net sales. 
The Peripheral Vascular Device Market  We estimate that peripheral vascular disease affects more than 20 million people worldwide. The disease encompasses a number of conditions in which the arteries or veins that carry blood to or from
the legs, arms, or organs other than the heart become narrowed, obstructed, weakened, or otherwise compromised. In many cases peripheral vascular disease goes undetected, sometimes leading to life-threatening events—such as stroke, ruptured
aneurysm, or pulmonary embolism—or death.  Clinical studies have identified several factors that increase the risk of
peripheral vascular disease, including smoking, diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure, lack of exercise, coronary artery disease, high cholesterol, and being over the age of 65. Demographic trends suggest an increase in the prevalence of peripheral
vascular disease over time, driven primarily by rising levels of obesity and diabetes and an aging population.  Vascular
surgeons treat peripheral vascular disease and also perform vascular procedures associated with other diseases, such as end-stage renal disease. We estimate that there are more than 2,000 board-certified vascular surgeons and several thousand
general surgeons who perform vascular procedures in the United States, and that there are more than 3,000 vascular surgeons in Europe and Japan. In contrast to other medical specialists, such as interventional cardiologists and interventional
radiologists, vascular surgeons perform both conventional vascular surgeries and endovascular procedures. Conventional vascular surgery involves opening the body, cutting vessels, and suturing. Endovascular procedures typically are minimally
invasive, catheter-based procedures involving repairing vessels from within using real-time imaging technologies.  Our History
 We were founded in 1983 by George D. LeMaitre, M.D., a vascular surgeon who designed and developed the predecessor to our
Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotome and Over-The-Wire LeMaitre Valvulotome. Through a combination of strategic acquisitions and research and development efforts, we have expanded to 12 product lines. 
  2 


Table of Contents
We have conducted several acquisitions of complementary products since 1998: 
 








 Year
  
 Acquisition
  
 Key Product(s)

1998
  
Whittaker Screen Printing
  
Radiopaque tape manufacturing operations

1999
  
Vermed
  
Balloon catheters

2001
  
Ideas for Medicine
  
Carotid shunts, balloon catheters, and laparoscopic cholecystectomy devices

2003
  
Credent
  
Vascular access grafts

2004
  
VCS Clip
  
Vessel closure system

2005
  
Endomed
  
Thoracic and abdominal stent grafts

2007
  
Vascular Innovations
  
Contrast injector

2007
  
Vascular Architects
  
Remote endarterectomy devices

2007
  
UnBalloon Technology
  
Stent graft modeling catheters

2007
  
Biomateriali
  
Polyester grafts and patches

2008
  
XenoSure(1)
  
Biologic vascular patch(1)

2010
  
LifeSpan
  
ePTFE grafts
  


(1)
We obtained exclusive rights to distribute this product under our “XenoSure” brand in the United States and most of Europe until January 26, 2016, and an
option to acquire this product commencing January 2, 2014 and expiring January 26, 2016. If we do not meet our obligations under our distribution agreement with the manufacturer, the manufacturer could terminate the agreement, and we would
lose our purchase option to acquire this product.  We have relocated most of the manufacturing operations
associated with these acquisitions to our Burlington, Massachusetts, headquarters and we continue to look at ways to make our operations more efficient.  Prior to 1999, we had no direct sales force and instead relied on direct marketing to generate brand awareness and product loyalty. In 1999, we began building a direct sales organization that we have
continued to expand, most recently into Denmark and Spain in 2011. We currently sell products directly to our hospital customers in the United States and Canada, Japan, and most major European markets. 
Our Business Strategies 
Our goal is to be the leading global provider of medical devices to vascular surgeons. 
To achieve this objective, we are utilizing the following long-term strategies: 
 


 
•
 
 Focus on niche markets. We seek to build and maintain market-leading share positions in niche product markets. We believe that the
relative lack of competitive focus on these markets by our larger competitors with greater resources, and the differentiated features and consistent quality of our products, allow for higher selling prices in these markets. In recent years we have
sought to leverage these market-leading share positions by selling complementary products in more competitive, larger market segments.   


 
•
 
 Expand our direct sales force. We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force in North America, the European Union, and
Japan. We intend to further expand our sales force over time. We believe that direct-to-hospital sales build closer customer relationships, allow for higher selling prices, and are not subject to the risk of customer churn resulting from distributor
turnover.   


 
•
 
 Add complementary products through acquisitions, research and development, and additional regulatory approvals. We intend to further
expand and diversify our product offerings and add new technology platforms. We believe our significant experience in acquiring and integrating product lines and businesses is one of our competitive advantages. We actively track industry
developments and plan to acquire additional product lines and businesses, refine our current product lines, develop new applications for our existing technologies, and obtain regulatory approvals for our devices in new markets in order to further
access the broader peripheral vascular device market.
  3 


Table of Contents
Our Products  The following table describes the primary use and availability of each of our product lines as of March 27, 2012:   














 
  
Generally Available for Sale in(1)

 Product Category
 
 Product Line
 
Primary Use
  
UnitedStates
 
EuropeanUnion
 
Japan

 Open Vascular
 
 Balloon Catheters - LeMaitre Embolectomy Catheters - Over-the-Wire
Embolectomy Catheters - NovaSil Embolectomy Catheters
- Pruitt Occlusion Catheters - Distal Perfusion
Catheter
 
Removal of blood clots;occlusion, and facilitationof blood flow
  
ü
 
ü
 
ü


 
 Carotid Shunts - Pruitt F3
Carotid Shunts - Pruitt- Inahara Carotid Shunts - Flexcel Carotid Shunts
 
Facilitation of blood flowto brain during carotidplaque removal
  
ü
 
ü
 
ü


 
 Remote Endarterectomy Devices - MollRing Cutter Transection Device - Martin Dissector
- EndoHelix Retrieval Device - Periscope
Dissector - Ring Stripper
 
Removal of blockages inthe major arteries of theleg
  
ü
 
ü
 
Applicationsubmitted


 
 Valvulotomes - Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotome - Over-The-Wire
LeMaitre Valvulotome
 
Destruction of vein valvesto create vein bypassgrafts
  
ü
 
ü
 
ü


 
 Vascular Grafts - AlboGraft Knitted Vascular Grafts - AlboGraft Woven
Vascular Grafts - LifeSpan ePTFE Vascular Grafts
 
Synthetic vessels for usein bypass andreplacement procedures
  
ü
 
ü
 
ü


 
 Vascular Patches(2) - AlboSure
Vascular Patches - XenoSure Biologic Patches
 
Synthetic and biologicalpatches for use in closingincisions in a blood vessel
  
ü
 
ü
 



 
 Vein Strippers - InvisiGrip
Vein Stripper
 
Single-incision removalof varicose veins
  
ü
 
ü
 
ü


 
 Vessel Closure Systems - AnastoClip VCS Vessel Closure System - AnastoClip GC
Vessel Closure System - Accessory Devices
 
Attachment of bloodvessels, primarily fordialysis access
  
ü
 
ü
 
ü

Endovascular and Other
 
 Manual Contrast Injectors -
LeverEdge Contrast Injector
 
Injection of contrastmedia into blood vessels
  
ü
 
ü
 



 
 Modeling Catheters - The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter
 
Improvement in the sealof aortic stent grafts
  
ü
 
ü
 
Applicationsubmitted


 
 Radiopaque Tape - Glow
‘n’ Tell Tape - LeMaitre Stent Guide
 
Improvement in precisionof vascular andendovascular procedures
  
ü
 
ü
 
ü


 
 Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy Devices - Reddick Cholangiogram Catheter - Reddick-Saye Screw
Retractor Kit - Grice Laparoscopic Suture Needle
 
Introduction of dye intothe cystic duct; relateduses
  
ü
 
ü
 


  4 


Table of Contents
 


(1)
Due to varying regulatory schemes and product introduction timelines, it may be that only some models within the applicable product line are approved for sale in the
indicated market. For example, in our Vascular Grafts product line, our LifeSpan ePTFE Vascular Graft is available for sale in the United States, the European Union and Japan, but our AlboGraft products are not yet available for sale in Japan.



(2)
Our synthetic patch, the AlboSure Vascular Patch, is not yet commercially available. We intend to begin selling this device by 2013. Our XenoSure Biologic Vascular
Patch is manufactured by Neovasc Inc. We have exclusive rights to distribute this product under our “XenoSure” brand in the United States and most of Europe until January 26, 2016, and an option to acquire this product commencing
January 2, 2014 and expiring January 26, 2016. If we do not meet our obligations under our distribution agreement with the manufacturer, the manufacturer could terminate the agreement, and we would lose our purchase option to acquire this
product.  Open Vascular Products 
Our open vascular products are used primarily in conventional open vascular surgery for the treatment of peripheral vascular disease.
Descriptions of our primary vascular product offerings follow.  Balloon Catheters for Embolectomy, Occlusion and
Perfusion  Our LeMaitre line of embolectomy catheters are used to remove blood clots from arteries or veins. We
manufacture single-lumen latex and latex-free embolectomy catheters as well as dual-lumen latex embolectomy catheters. The dual-lumen embolectomy catheter allows clot removal and simultaneous irrigation or guide-wire trackability. Occlusion
catheters temporarily occlude blood flow to allow the vascular surgeon time and space to complete a given procedure. Perfusion catheters temporarily perfuse blood and other liquids into the vasculature. Our Pruitt line of occlusion and perfusion
catheters reduces vessel trauma by using internal balloon fixation rather than traditional external clamp fixation. 
Carotid Shunts  Our Pruitt F3, Pruitt-Inahara, Inahara-Pruitt, and Flexcel Carotid Shunts are used to temporarily divert, or shunt, blood to the brain while the surgeon removes plaque from the carotid artery in a carotid
endarterectomy surgery. Our Pruitt F3, Pruitt-Inahara, and Inahara-Pruitt shunts feature internal balloon fixation that eliminates the need for clamps, thereby reducing vessel trauma. Our Flexcel shunt is a non-balloon shunt offered for surgeons who
prefer to secure their shunt using externally placed clamps.  Remote Endarterectomy Devices 
Our EndoRE line of remote endarterectomy devices are used to remove severe atherosclerotic blockages from the major arteries of the leg in
a minimally invasive procedure requiring a single incision in the groin. Our EndoRE devices are used to separate the sclerotic blockage from the vessel, cut the far end of the blockage to free it for removal, and then withdraw the blockage from the
vessel. A retrospective 133-patient clinical study published in the February 2006 Journal of Vascular Surgery found that, compared to bypass procedures, this minimally invasive procedure leads to less trauma to the patient and reduced
hospital stays. It also preserves the patient’s own veins for future use in an unrelated bypass procedure. 
Valvulotomes  Our Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotome and our Over-The-Wire LeMaitre Valvulotome cut valves in the saphenous vein, a vein that runs from the foot to the groin, so that the vein can function as a bypass
vessel to carry blood past diseased arteries to the lower leg or the foot. The Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotome is the only self-sizing and self-centering valvulotome available, and the Over-The-Wire LeMaitre Valvulotome is the only over-the-wire
self-sizing valvulotome available. We believe that our valvulotomes reduce costs for hospitals by enabling less invasive bypass surgery to be performed with several one-inch incisions rather than one continuous

  5 


Table of Contents

ankle-to-groin incision, thereby reducing the length of hospital stays and the likelihood of wound complications. The Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotome is the sixth generation of the original
valvulotome developed by our founder, George D. LeMaitre, M.D.  Vascular Grafts 
Our AlboGraft Woven and Knitted Vascular Grafts are collagen-impregnated polyester grafts used to bypass or replace diseased arteries.
They are available in both straight tube and bifurcated versions.  Our LifeSpan ePTFE Vascular Graft is an expanded
polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) graft used to bypass or replace diseased arteries, and to create dialysis access sites. They are available in both regular and thin wall options and with an optional full or partial external spiral support to increase
resistance to compression or kinking. Our stepped and quick tapered LifeSpan models are designed to reduce the risk of steal syndrome and high cardiac output, which are complications that may arise in dialysis access grafts. 
Vascular Patches  Our AlboSure Vascular Patch is a polyester patch used in conjunction with endarterectomy and vascular reconstructions. We have received regulatory clearance to market our AlboSure Vascular Patch in the
United States and European Union and intend to begin selling this device by 2013. Vascular surgeons use patches in conjunction with carotid endarterectomy, remote endarterectomy, and other vascular reconstructions. 
We also distribute the XenoSure Biologic Vascular Patch, a patch made from bovine pericardium. We have exclusive rights to distribute
this product under our “XenoSure” brand in the United States and most of Europe until January 26, 2016, and an option to acquire this product commencing January 2, 2014 and expiring January 26, 2016. 
Vessel Closure Systems  Our AnastoClip VCS and AnastoClip GC Vessel Closure Systems allow surgeons to attach vessels, native and prosthetic, to one another by deploying titanium clips in place of suturing. These vessel closure
systems create an interrupted anastomosis, or a vessel attachment that expands and contracts as the vessel pulses, which we believe improves the durability of the anastomosis.  A retrospective 1,110-patient clinical study published in the August 2003 Journal of Vascular Surgery found that the AnastoClip VCS Vessel Closure System improved 24-month patency versus
traditional continuous sutures from approximately 34% to 54% in arterio-venous fistulae, which are surgical attachments of arteries and veins, and from approximately 17% to 36% in prosthetic grafts attachments. In 2010 we released the
next-generation AnastoClip GC Vessel Closure System, with a new clip design that is intended to provide additional security and ease of use.  Endovascular and Other Products  Our endovascular products are used
primarily by vascular surgeons in minimally invasive endovascular procedures, such as stent-grafting, angioplasty, stenting, and atherectomy, and we also sell non-vascular medical devices used in general surgery procedures, primarily laparoscopic
cholecystectomy. Descriptions of our primary endovascular and other product offerings follow.  Modeling Catheters
 Our UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter is used to apply radial pressure to the inside of an aortic stent graft
in order to seal the outer lining of the stent graft against either the aorta or an adjacent stent graft. The 
  6 


Table of Contents

physician expands the device’s nitinol mesh cage inside of the stent graft in order to appose the stent graft lining against the vessel or stent graft wall. An adequate seal will exclude
blood flow from the aneurysm, thereby preventing an endoleak, a condition in which blood continues to enter the aneurismal sac, increasing the risk of aneurysm rupture and death. Unlike a traditional balloon catheter, The UnBalloon catheter dilates
the aortic stent graft without occluding blood flow, allowing the physician more time to repair an endoleak or model the stent graft while minimizing the risk of stent graft migration during modeling. 
Radiopaque Tape  Our VascuTape Radiopaque Tape is a flexible, medical-grade tape with centimeter or millimeter markings printed with our proprietary radiopaque ink that is visible both to the eye and to an x-ray machine
or fluoroscope. VascuTape Radiopaque Tape is applied to the skin and provides interventionalists with a simple way to cross-reference between the inside and the outside of a patient’s body, allowing them to locate tributaries or lesions beneath
the skin.  Other Products  In some hospitals, vascular surgery procedures are performed by general surgeons. We sell non-vascular medical devices used in general surgery procedures, primarily laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Our
leading general surgery product is the Reddick Cholangiogram Catheter, which is used to inject dye into the cystic duct during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. In this procedure, the gall bladder is dissected and removed through small punctures in the
abdomen. We also offer two laparoscopic accessories used in laparoscopic gall bladder removal.  Sales and Marketing 
As of December 31, 2011, we employed 78 field sales representatives. We believe that the expansion of our direct sales force has been
a key factor in our success and it remains one of our primary long-term strategies. In recent years, we have reduced the amount of starting compensation that we typically pay to our sales representatives, and this savings has helped facilitate the
hiring of additional sales personnel. Outside our direct markets, we generally sell our products through country-specific distributors. We typically sign exclusive distribution agreements with terms of up to three years specifying minimum annual
sales volumes and pricing. These agreements are renewable by mutual agreement.  In addition, we engage in direct marketing
efforts, including direct mail and exhibitions at medical congresses, which we believe are important to our brand development and continued success. We believe that direct marketing allows us to market to vascular surgeons beyond the reach of our
direct sales force.  Research and Development  Our research and development has historically focused on developing enhancements and extensions to our existing product lines. Our current product development efforts are focused on both the open vascular
and endovascular spaces, and are largely improvements to our existing devices. In recent years we have increased investment in product research and development, with the goal of more rapidly developing new products, line extensions, and
next-generation devices. In 2011 we introduced two new products to the market, the second-generation of The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter and the Over-the-Wire LeMaitre Valvulotome. 
Our products are subject to our design control procedures throughout the various stages of product development. These procedures may
include bench testing, animal testing, human use testing conducted by independent physicians, and post-market surveillance of product performance, as appropriate. We may use feedback received from independent physicians to demonstrate product
functionality, safety, and effectiveness before commencing full-scale marketing of any product. 
  7 


Table of Contents
For 2011, 2010, and 2009, our research and development expenditures, including clinical
study expenditures, were $4.4 million, $5.5 million and $5.9 million, respectively, representing between 8% and 12% of net sales. As of December 31, 2011, our research and development staff consisted of 13 full-time engineers and technicians.
 Manufacturing 
Our principal manufacturing facilities are located in Burlington, Massachusetts, where most of our product lines are produced in two
ISO 14644-1 Class 8 clean rooms, each approximately 5,500 square feet. Our most recent manufacturing consolidations in Burlington, Massachusetts were the relocation of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft manufacturing operations from Brindisi,
Italy and our LifeSpan ePTFE Vascular Graft from Laguna Hills, California, both in 2011. Although most of our product lines are produced in Burlington, Massachusetts, our distributed products are manufactured elsewhere and certain third-parties
manufacture our EndoRE remote endarterectomy devices.  We manufacture certain proprietary components, assemble most of our
devices ourselves, and inspect, test, and package all of our finished products. By designing and manufacturing many of our products from raw materials, and assembling and testing as many of our subassemblies and products as practical, we believe
that we can maintain better quality control, ensure compliance with applicable regulatory standards and our internal specifications, limit outside access to our proprietary technology, ensure adequate product supply, and make design modifications in
a timely manner. We have custom-designed proprietary manufacturing and processing equipment and have developed proprietary enhancements for existing production machinery. Nearly all of our products are built to stock. 
Our management information systems provide us with the ability to evaluate our performance, collect business intelligence, and make
better strategic decisions. These systems include order entry, invoicing, on-line inventory management, lot traceability, purchasing, shop floor control, and shipping and distribution analysis, as well as various accounting-oriented functions.
During day-to-day operations, these systems enable us to track our products from the inception of an order through the manufacturing process and then through delivery of the product to the customer. 
We purchase components from, and have certain product lines manufactured by, third parties. Most of our components are readily available
from several supply sources, but we do rely on single- and limited-source suppliers for several of our key product components and our third-party-manufactured products. We do not have contractual arrangements with most of these suppliers and
manufacturers, and we order our supplies and product on an as-needed basis. To date, we have not experienced any material disruption in the adequate supply from existing sources of product and components, but there is no guarantee that we will not
experience such disruptions in the future. For instance, the supply of ink for our LifeSpan ePTFE Vascular Graft was indefinitely interrupted due to a fire at our former single-source supplier. Although we are sourcing an alternate supplier for that
component and feel that we have an adequate supply of ink on hand, it is possible that we could experience delays in manufacturing the product if we are not successful in timely validating the new supply. 
Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could impact our ability to produce sufficient inventory and meet the demands of our
customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Our manufacturing facilities have
been certified to ISO 13485:2003 quality management system standards, which enables us to satisfy certain regulatory requirements of the European Union, Canada, and other foreign jurisdictions. If we were to lose these certifications, we would no
longer be able to sell our products in these countries until we made the necessary corrections to our operations. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities and our Notified Body (described below) to
ensure compliance 
  8 


Table of Contents

with domestic and non-U.S. regulatory requirements. See “—Government Regulation.” In December 2011 and January 2012, we underwent routine audits from our European Notified Body and
the FDA, respectively. Although the results of these inspections were satisfactory, the timing and scope of future audits is unknown and it is possible, despite our belief that our quality systems and the operation of our manufacturing facilities
will remain in compliance with U.S, and non-U.S. regulatory requirements, that a future audit may result in one or more unsatisfactory results. 
Competition  The markets
in which our 12 product lines compete are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. No one company competes against us in all of our product lines. Rather, we compete with a range of companies,
from large to small, including both publicly traded and privately held device companies. Notable competitors include Applied Medical Resources Corporation, Cardiovascular Systems Inc., Cook Group Incorporated, C.R. Bard, Inc., Edwards Lifesciences
Corporation, Getinge AB, Jotec GmbH, Medtronic, Inc., Terumo Medical Corporation, Uresil, LLC, and W. L. Gore & Associates.  Our products compete primarily on the basis of their innovative technology, quality, reliability, ease of use, cost-effectiveness, physician familiarity, brand recognition, and service support. Several of
our products are sold at higher prices than those of our competitors. We believe that our continued success will depend on our ability to broaden and optimize our direct sales channel, acquire or develop additional vascular device product lines,
obtain patent or other product protections, obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals, maintain sufficient inventory to meet customer demand, and attract and retain skilled personnel. 
Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, regulatory, marketing, sales, and
personnel resources than we do. Certain of these competitors are able to manufacture at lower costs and may therefore offer comparable products at lower prices. Certain of these competitors may also have greater experience in developing and further
improving products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing such products. Certain of these competitors may obtain patent protection or regulatory approval or clearance, or achieve product commercialization, before us, any of
which could materially adversely affect us.  Intellectual Property 
We believe that our success is dependent, to a certain extent, on the development and maintenance of proprietary aspects of our
technologies. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, and confidentiality and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. 
As of December 31, 2011, we actively maintained 27 issued patents and 7 pending patent applications in the United States and Europe
relating to various aspects of our products and/or manufacturing processes. The majority of our issued U.S. patents are set to expire at various times from 2012 to 2020.  We intend to file and prosecute patent applications for our technology in jurisdictions where we believe that patent protection is effective and advisable. Generally, for products that we believe are
appropriate for patent protection, we will attempt to obtain patents in the United States and key markets of the European Union. However, depending on circumstances, we may not apply for patents in all or any of those jurisdictions, or we may pursue
patent protection elsewhere.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the patent positions of medical device companies, including our
company, are uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. The coverage sought in a patent application can be denied or significantly reduced either before or after the patent is issued. Consequently, there can be no
assurance that any of our pending patent applications will result in an issued patent. There is also no 
  9 


Table of Contents

assurance that any existing or future patent will provide significant protection or commercial advantage, or whether any existing or future patent will be dominated by a more basic patent, thus
possibly requiring us to obtain a license to produce and sell the product.  Third parties may claim that our products infringe
on their patents and other intellectual property rights. Some companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. If a competitor were to challenge our patents, licenses,
or other intellectual property rights, or assert that our products infringe its patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to make expensive changes to our product designs, license rights in
order to continue manufacturing and selling our products, or pay substantial damages. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only consume our financial resources but also divert our management’s time and effort.
Such claims could also cause our customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the claim.  Certain aspects of our products are covered by patents held by third parties. We manufacture, market, and sell these products pursuant to license agreements with these third parties. These arrangements
require us to pay royalties, typically determined as a percentage of our net sales for the underlying product. If we fail to make these payments or otherwise fail to observe the terms of these agreements, we may lose our ability to sell these
products. For example, we manufacture, market, and sell our AnastoClip and AnastoClip GC Vessel Closure Systems, EndoHelix Retrieval Device, Grice Suture Needle, LifeSpan Vascular Graft, MollRing Cutter Transection Device, Reddick-Saye Screw, and
Periscope Dissector products pursuant to licenses with third-party patent holders.  We believe that our strong brands have
been an important factor in our success. We rely on common law and registered trademarks to protect our product brands. Some of our registered trademarks are LeMaitre, Pruitt, VascuTape, Glow ‘N Tell, and Reddick, each of which is registered in
the United States and the European Union, and in certain cases in other foreign countries.  We rely on trade secret protection
for certain unpatented aspects of other proprietary technology. Some of our products are not protected by patents. In the past, other companies have independently developed or otherwise acquired comparable or substantially equivalent proprietary
information and techniques, and there can be no assurance that others will not do so in the future or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. We have a
policy of requiring key employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. Our confidentiality agreements also require our employees to assign to us all rights
to any inventions made or conceived during their employment with us. We also generally require our consultants to assign to us any inventions made during the course of their engagement by us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements
will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer, or disclosure of confidential information or inventions.  The laws of foreign countries generally do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and we may experience more difficulty enforcing our proprietary rights
in certain foreign jurisdictions.  Government Regulation  The products we manufacture and market are subject to regulation by the FDA, and, in some instances, other federal and state authorities and foreign governments. 
  10 


Table of Contents
United States Regulation 
Our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the FDCA). FDA
regulations govern, among other things, product development, testing, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, clearance or approval, advertising and promotion, sales and distribution, and import and export. 
Premarket Pathways  Most medical devices must receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket application approval (PMA approval) from the FDA prior to commercial distribution. Devices deemed to pose relatively less risk are
placed in either class I or II, which requires the manufacturer to submit a premarket notification requesting permission for commercial distribution; this is known as 510(k) clearance. Some low-risk devices are exempted from this requirement. Class
II devices may be subject to special controls, such as performance standards and FDA guidelines that are not applied to class I devices. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable
devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously 510(k)-cleared device or to a pre-amendment class III device (i.e., one in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976) for which PMA applications have not been
called, are placed in class III, which generally requires PMA approval. In all cases, a user fee is required for 510(k) submissions and PMA applications, which in the case of PMA applications can be very costly. 
510(k) Clearance. To obtain 510(k) clearance, a manufacturer must submit a premarket notification demonstrating that the
proposed device is substantially equivalent in intended use to a “predicate device” (i.e., a previously 510(k)-cleared class I or class II device or a pre-amendment class III device for which the FDA has not yet
called for PMA applications). The FDA’s 510(k) clearance pathway usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can last longer. In reviewing a premarket notification, the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data. For
example, in reviewing our premarket notification for the AlboGraft Vascular Graft, the FDA requested, and we submitted, clinical data from the use of the device in other countries where it was then already approved for sale. Nearly all of our
devices sold in the United States to date are marketed pursuant to the 510(k) process.  After a device receives 510(k)
clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change as specified by FDA guidelines, requires a new 510(k) clearance. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this
determination in the first instance, but the FDA can review any such decision. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance, the agency may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k)
clearance. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained. Also, the manufacturer may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties.
 PMA Approval. The PMA approval pathway requires proof of the safety and effectiveness of the proposed device to
the FDA’s satisfaction, making this pathway much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain. A PMA application must provide extensive preclinical and clinical trial data, as well as detailed information about the device and its components regarding,
among other things, device design, manufacturing, and labeling. As part of the PMA review, the FDA will typically inspect the manufacturer’s facilities for compliance with the Quality System Regulation (QSR) which imposes elaborate testing,
control, documentation, and other quality assurance procedures on the manufacturing process.  If the FDA approves a PMA, the
approved indications or claims may be more limited than those originally sought. The PMA can include post-approval conditions that the FDA believes to be necessary to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things,
restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale, and distribution. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the approval. Even after approval of a PMA, a new
PMA or PMA supplement is required if the device or its labeling or manufacturing process are modified. Supplements to a PMA often 
  11 


Table of Contents

require the submission of the same type of information required for an original PMA, except that the supplement is generally limited to that information needed to support the proposed change from
the product covered by the original PMA.  Clinical Trials. A clinical trial is typically required to support a
PMA application and is sometimes required to support 510(k) clearance. In some cases, one or more smaller feasibility IDE studies may precede a pivotal IDE clinical trial intended to comprehensively demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the
investigational device. All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with the FDA’s extensive requirements. If an investigational device could pose a significant risk to patients (as defined in the
regulations), the FDA, prior to initiation of clinical use, must approve an IDE application showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. A non-significant risk device does not require
submission to the FDA of an IDE application. Both significant risk and non-significant risk investigational devices require approval from institutional review boards (IRBs) at the study centers where the device will be used. The FDA and the IRB at
each institution at which a clinical trial is being performed may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. 
During a study, the sponsor must comply with the FDA’s IDE requirements for investigator selection, trial monitoring, reporting,
record keeping, and prohibitions on the promotion of investigational devices. The investigators must obtain patient informed consent, rigorously follow the investigational plan and study protocol, control the disposition of investigational devices,
and comply with all reporting and record-keeping requirements. Required records and reports are subject to inspection by the FDA. Prior to granting PMA approval, the FDA typically inspects the records relating to the conduct of the study and the
clinical data supporting the PMA application for compliance with IDE requirements.  Although the QSR does not fully apply to
investigational devices, the requirement for controls on design and development does apply. The sponsor also must manufacture the investigational device in conformity with the quality controls described in the IDE application and any conditions of
IDE approval that FDA may impose with respect to manufacturing.  Historically, our products have been introduced into the
market using the 510(k) clearance procedure, and we have not used the more burdensome PMA process for any of the products that we currently market or sell in the United States. 
Postmarket Regulation  After a device is placed on the market, regardless of the classification or premarket pathway, significant regulatory requirements apply. These include: 
 


 
•
 
 manufacturing establishment registration and device listing with the FDA; 
 


 
•
 
 the QSR, which requires finished device manufacturers, including third-party or contract manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control,
documentation, and other quality assurance procedures in all aspects of manufacturing;   


 
•
 
 labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for uncleared, unapproved, or off-label uses and other requirements related
to promotional activities;   


 
•
 
 medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur; and   


 
•
 
 corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA any field corrections and product recalls or removals
if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health. 
  12 


Table of Contents
We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our
compliance with regulatory requirements. Our most recent FDA inspection was in January 2012, and was satisfactory. Non-compliance with applicable FDA requirements can result in, among other things, public warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil
penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the FDA to grant marketing approvals, withdrawal of marketing approvals, a recommendation by the FDA to disallow us to enter into government contracts,
and criminal prosecutions. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement, or refund of the cost of any device manufactured or distributed by us. In the event that one of our suppliers fails to maintain compliance with our quality
requirements, we may have to qualify a new supplier and could experience manufacturing delays as a result.  Non-U.S. sales of
medical devices manufactured in the United States that are not approved or cleared by the FDA for use in the United States, or are banned or deviate from lawful performance standards, are subject to FDA export requirements. Before exporting such
products to a foreign country, we must first comply with the FDA’s regulatory procedures for exporting unapproved devices. 
Other U.S. Regulations  We and our products are also subject to a variety of state and local laws in those jurisdictions where our products are or will be marketed, and federal, state, and local laws relating to matters such as
safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We are subject to various federal and state laws governing our relationships with the
physicians and others who purchase or make referrals for our products. For instance, federal law prohibits payments of any form that are intended to induce a referral for any item payable under Medicare, Medicaid, or any other federal healthcare
program. Many states have similar laws. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations now or in the future or that such laws or regulations will not have a material adverse
effect upon our ability to do business.  We are subject to federal, state, and local laws, rules, regulations, and policies
governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling, and disposal of certain hazardous and potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our operations. Although we believe that we have complied
with these laws and regulations in all material respects and to date have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with
environmental regulations in the future.  Non-U.S. Regulation 
Sales of medical devices are subject to regulatory requirements in many countries. The regulatory review process may vary greatly from
country to country. For example, the European Union has adopted numerous directives and standards relating to medical devices regulating their design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling, and adverse event reporting, including the Medical Devices
Directive (93/42/EEC (the Directive)), which is applicable to our products. Devices that comply with the requirements of the Directive are entitled to bear a CE mark, indicating that the device conforms with the essential requirements of the
applicable directive and can be commercially distributed in countries that are members of the European Union, as well as Iceland, Lichtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland. Each member state of the European Union has implemented the directives into its
respective national law and has each established a “Competent Authority” to apply the directive in its territory. 
The Directive defines a classification system placing devices into Class I, IIa, IIb, or III, depending on the risks and characteristics
of the medical device. The Directive also defines the essential requirements that devices must meet before being placed on the market, establishes assessment procedures for approving a device for marketing, and creates mechanisms for national
authorities to manage implementation or to intervene when public health requires. Essential requirements include manufacturing, design, performance, labeling, and safety requirements, and may include providing certain clinical data. These
requirements vary based on the type of the device and other related factors. 
  13 


Table of Contents
A manufacturer of low-risk devices typically may demonstrate conformity to the essential
requirements based on a self-declaration. The European Standardization Committees have adopted numerous harmonized standards for specific types of medical devices. Compliance with relevant standards establishes a presumption of conformity with the
essential requirements. Manufacturers of higher-risk devices generally must use a “Notified Body”—an appointed independent third party to assess conformity. This third- party assessment may consist of an audit of the
manufacturer’s quality system and specific testing of the manufacturer’s devices. An assessment by a Notified Body in one country within the European Union is generally required in order for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the
product throughout the European Union. Most of our devices are considered higher-risk devices that require Notified Body assessment.  The European medical device laws also address the advertising and promotion of medical devices, clinical investigations, and requirements for handling adverse events. Post-market surveillance of medical
devices in the European Union is generally conducted on a country-by-country basis; however, the Directive sets forth certain specific requirements for reporting adverse events. The Medical Device Vigilance system is the mechanism by which adverse
event reporting is managed and monitored in the European Union. In October 2011, we received complaints of two device failures which resulted in a voluntary recall of one production lot of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft. Subsequently, in February
2012, we received complaints of two additional device failures from a second lot which resulted in a voluntary recall of one additional production lot. We believe that we have isolated the root cause of these device failures and implemented
corrective actions beginning with lots produced from November 2011. However, there can be no assurance that these failures will not reoccur or that other problems will not develop in the future. As a result of the recalled lots, we recognized $0.2
million of inventory write-offs which we recorded to cost of sales during the year ended December 31, 2011. Also in February 2012, we received an additional complaint on our AlboGraft Vascular Graft that was apparently unrelated to the previous
complaints. Although the root cause of that complaint is still under investigation, it appears to be an isolated manufacturing defect, although there is no assurance that this will prove to be the case. We were notified by the regulatory agency in
the United Kingdom in late February 2012 that they would issue a Medical Device Alert to all hospitals in the United Kingdom advising caution when implanting the AlboGraft Vascular Graft. Although the Medical Device Alert has not resulted in an
additional recall, we believe that such notice adversely affects our reputation and that of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft.  In
some cases, we rely on our non-U.S. distributors to obtain premarket approvals, complete product registrations, comply with clinical trial requirements, and complete those steps that are customarily taken in the applicable jurisdictions to comply
with governmental and quasi-governmental regulation. In the future, we expect to continue to rely on distributors in this manner in those countries where we continue to market and sell our products through them. 
In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) regulates medical devices through the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, which was
reformed effective April 1, 2005. The revisions to Japan’s regulations have resulted in longer lead times for product registration.  There can be no assurance that new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws and regulations regarding the release or sale of medical devices will not delay or prevent sale of our current or
future products.  Third-Party Reimbursement  United States  Healthcare providers that purchase medical devices
generally rely on third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payors (such as indemnity insurers, employer group health insurance programs, and managed care plans) to reimburse all or part of the cost of those
products. As a result, demand for our products is and will continue to be dependent in part on the coverage and reimbursement policies of these payors. The manner in which reimbursement is sought and obtained varies based upon the type of payor

  14 


Table of Contents

involved and the setting in which the product is furnished and utilized. Furthermore, payments from Medicare, Medicaid, and other third-party payors are subject to legislative and regulatory
changes and are susceptible to budgetary pressures.  In the United States, third-party payors generally pay healthcare
providers directly for the procedures they perform and in certain instances for the products they use. Alternatively, third-party payors may reimburse patients for all or part of the charges that patients pay for procedures and the products used in
connection with those procedures. In either case, our sales volumes depend on the extent to which third-party payors cover our products and the procedures in which they are used. In general, a third-party payor only covers a medical product or
procedure when the plan administrator is satisfied that the product or procedure is medically necessary because it improves health outcomes, including quality of life or functional ability, in a safe and cost-effective manner. Even if a device has
received clearance or approval for marketing by the FDA, there is no assurance that third-party payors will cover the cost of the device and related procedures in which the device is used. 
In many instances, third-party payors cover the procedures performed using our products using price fee schedules that do not vary
reimbursement to reflect the cost of the products and equipment used in performing those procedures. In other instances, payment or reimbursement is separately available for the products and equipment used, in addition to payment or reimbursement
for the procedure itself. Even if coverage is available, third-party payors may place restrictions on the circumstances in which they provide coverage or may offer reimbursement that is not sufficient to cover the cost of our products. Many of the
products that compete with ours are less expensive. Therefore, although coverage may be available for our products and the related procedures, the levels of approved coverage may not be sufficient to justify using our products instead of those of
competitors.  Finally, the advent of contracted fixed rates per procedure has made it difficult to receive separate
reimbursement for disposable products, even if the use of these products improves clinical outcomes. In addition, many third-party payors are moving to managed care systems in which providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed
cost per person. Managed care providers often attempt to control the cost of healthcare by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures. Under current prospective payment systems, such as the diagnosis-related group system and the hospital
out-patient prospective payment system, both of which are used by Medicare and in many managed care systems used by private third party payors, the reimbursement for our products will be incorporated into the overall reimbursement of a procedure,
and there will be no separate reimbursement for our products. As a result, we cannot be certain that hospital administrators and physicians will purchase our products.  If hospitals and physicians cannot obtain adequate reimbursement for our products or the procedures in which they are used, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could suffer a
material adverse impact.   Non-U.S. 
Our success in non-U.S. markets will depend largely upon the availability of reimbursement from the third-party payors through which
healthcare providers are paid in those markets. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in non-U.S. markets vary significantly by country. The main types of healthcare payment systems are government sponsored healthcare and private insurance.
As in the United States, reimbursement is subject to legislative and regulatory changes and is susceptible to budgetary pressures. Reimbursement approval must be obtained individually in each country in which our products are marketed. Outside the
United States, we generally pursue reimbursement approval in those countries in which we sell directly to the hospital. In other markets, we generally rely on the distributors who sell our products to obtain reimbursement approval in those countries
in which they will sell our products. There can be no assurance that reimbursement approval will be received. 
  15 


Table of Contents
Fraud and Abuse Laws  We may directly or indirectly be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws. In particular, the federal healthcare program
Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving, or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging
for, or recommending a good or service for which payment may be made in whole or part under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Penalties for violations include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as
fines, imprisonment, and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal healthcare programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare
industry. In implementing the statute, the Office of Inspector General, or OIG, has issued a series of regulations, known as the “safe harbors.” These safe harbors set forth provisions that, if all their applicable requirements are met,
will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is
illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable element of a safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities, such as the OIG.
 In March 2010, significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were adopted in the form of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act (the PPACA). The PPACA includes provisions that, among other things, require detailed disclosure of gifts and other remuneration made to health care professionals.  Employees  We had 276 full-time employees at December 31, 2011. Of
these employees, 124 were in manufacturing, and quality assurance, 108 were in sales and marketing, 19 were in research and development and regulatory, and 25 were in general and administrative. We believe that our employee relations are good.
 Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data  We operate in one reportable industry segment: the design, marketing, sales and technical support of medical devices and implants for the treatment of peripheral vascular disease. Our chief operating
decision maker is our chief executive officer. Our chief executive officer reviews financial information, accompanied by information about revenue by geographic region for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. The
information included in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is hereby incorporated by reference.  Customers
 Our sales are not dependent on any single customer or distributor, and we continue to expand our distribution channel
worldwide through direct and indirect sales forces.  Corporate Information 
We were incorporated in Massachusetts on November 28, 1983, as Vascutech, Inc. On June 16, 1998, we were reincorporated in
Delaware, and on April 6, 2001, we changed our name to LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 63 Second Avenue, Burlington, Massachusetts 01803, and our telephone number is (781) 221-2266. 
Where You Can Find More Information  Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act 
  16 


Table of Contents

of 1934 are available through the investor relations portion of our website (www.lemaitre.com) free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Information on our investor relations page and on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any of our other securities filings unless specifically incorporated
herein or therein by reference. In addition, our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system at
www.sec.gov. You may also obtain copies of the documents at prescribed rates by writing to the Public Reference Section of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the
operation of the public reference facilities. All statements made in any of our securities filings, including all forward-looking statements or information, are made as of the date of the document in which the statement is included, and we do not
assume or undertake any obligation to update any of those statements or documents unless we are required to do so by law. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Charters of our Audit, Compensation
and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees are available on our website and are available in print to any stockholder who requests such information.   


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  The
following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time.
Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may
also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment.
 Risks Related to Our Business  We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results.  Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results have resulted and will continue to result from numerous factors, including: 
 


 
•
 
 strategic actions by us, such as acquisitions of additional businesses, products, or technologies; 
 


 
•
 
 the discontinuation of a product line or other revenue generating activity, such as our stent grafts; 
 


 
•
 
 the relocation and integration of manufacturing operations and other strategic restructuring, such as the transfer of AlboGraft production;
  


 
•
 
 adverse regulatory actions which may necessitate recalls of our products or warning letters that negatively affect the markets for our products, such
as the recent AlboGraft warning letter in the United Kingdom;   


 
•
 
 our determination whether or not to continue the payment of quarterly cash dividends; 
 


 
•
 
 our determination whether of not to continue share repurchases; 
 


 
•
 
 costs incurred in connection with the termination of contractual and other relationships, including distributorships; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable in selected countries outside of the United States; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the mix of products we sell;   


 
•
 
 the expiration or exhaustion of deferred tax assets such as net operating loss carry-forwards; 
 


 
•
 
 effects of domestic and foreign economic conditions and exchange rates on our industry and/or customers; 
  17 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 increased product and price competition; and   


 
•
 
 the loss of any significant customer, especially in regard to any product that has a limited customer base. 
These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. If our
quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not always meaningful
and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.  We may not maintain our recent profitability.
 As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $6.4 million. While we reported
operating and net income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had an operating and a net loss for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. There can be no assurance we will achieve significant net sales gains or
maintain either operating or net profitability in the future. As a result of our exit from stent grafts in 2011, reported sales growth in 2012 may be challenged, and as a result we expect that it will be lower than our 2011 reported sales. In
addition, we intend to increase operating expenses in 2012 in areas such as sales and product development, and as a result we may need to maintain or reduce our operating expenses in other areas in order to maintain or improve operating
profitability. Decreased investment levels may inhibit future growth in net sales and earnings.  Additionally, our ability to
maintain and increase profitability will be influenced by many factors, including:   


 
•
 
 the level and timing of future sales, manufacturing costs and operating expenditures; 
 


 
•
 
 market acceptance of our new products;   


 
•
 
 the productivity of our direct sales force and distributors; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;   


 
•
 
 our ability to successfully build direct sales organizations in new markets; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to successfully acquire and develop competitive products; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, products, or technologies; 
 


 
•
 
 the impact on our business of competing products, technologies, and procedures; 
 


 
•
 
 the impact of the 2.3% medical device excise tax commencing in 2013; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products in new and existing markets; and 
 


 
•
 
 the cost of intellectual property challenges, if any.  If we are unable to expand our product offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations could suffer. 
The treatment of peripheral vascular disease is shifting from open vascular surgery to minimally invasive endovascular procedures, and
many of our products are used primarily or exclusively in open vascular surgery procedures. We market and sell our products primarily to vascular surgeons, and the majority of our marketing efforts and sales relate to products used in open vascular
surgery rather than in endovascular procedures. Recent transactions in 2011 have further concentrated our focus on open vascular procedures. For instance, in 2011 we divested a large portion of our endovascular product portfolio, our TAArget
Thoracic Stent Graft and our UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft, and further ended our relationship with Endologix, Inc. for distribution of its Powerlink stent graft. Furthermore, notwithstanding periodic product updates and next-generation iterations,
many of our devices have been on the market for several years or longer. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors unless we can keep pace with existing or new products and technologies in the vascular device

  18 


Table of Contents

market and the minimally invasive endovascular procedure market, in particular. Our success in developing and commercializing new products and new versions of our existing products is affected by
our ability to:   


 
•
 
 identify in a timely manner new market trends and customer needs; 
 


 
•
 
 keep pace with technological changes and industry standards; 
 


 
•
 
 obtain regulatory clearance or approval of new products and technologies; 
 


 
•
 
 successfully develop cost-effective manufacturing processes for such products; 
 


 
•
 
 commercially introduce such products and technologies; and 
 


 
•
 
 achieve market acceptance.  If we are unable to expand our product offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations could suffer.  We may acquire businesses and assets in the future. We may experience difficulties in completing the integration of these acquisitions into our business, or we may not realize the anticipated
benefits of these acquisitions.  In order to expand our product offerings, we have completed several acquisitions, and
a key part of our strategy is to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies in the future. Our growth strategy depends in part upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete, and integrate suitable acquisitions and develop products
from uncommercialized intellectual property that we acquire. If we are unable to complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms, our growth objectives could be negatively affected. 
Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience:   


 
•
 
 difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel, and products into our existing business; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulties in integrating manufacturing operations into our existing business or successfully replicating manufacturing processes at new
manufacturing facilities;   


 
•
 
 difficulties or delays in transitioning clinical studies or unfavorable results from such clinical studies; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulties or delays in commercializing intellectual property that we acquire; 
 


 
•
 
 the sudden reduction in volume or loss of orders from a key customer, particularly where the acquired company has concentrated sales;
  


 
•
 
 diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; 
 


 
•
 
 challenges resulting from limited or no prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; 
 


 
•
 
 higher costs of integration than we anticipated;   


 
•
 
 unknown or unanticipated liabilities included as part of the acquisition; 
 


 
•
 
 the need to improve an acquired product in order to gain broader market acceptance; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulties in acquiring the rights to and protecting intellectual property; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulties if the acquired company is remote or inconvenient to our Burlington, Massachusetts, headquarters; 
 


 
•
 
 dilution as a result of equity financing required to fund acquisition costs; or 
 


 
•
 
 debt as a result of debt financing required to fund acquisition costs, which would be senior to our outstanding shares of capital stock, and which
would require interest payments to a lender. 
  19 


Table of Contents
We could also discover deficiencies withheld from us due to fraud or otherwise not uncovered
in our due diligence prior to an acquisition, including deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, and regulatory compliance, as well undisclosed contractual or other liabilities and product liabilities, any of
which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any of these difficulties could negatively impact our ability to realize the intended and anticipated benefits that we currently expect from our acquisitions or from
acquisitions we complete in the future and could harm our financial condition and results of operations.  For instance, in
December 2007 we acquired Biomateriali S.r.l., an Italian manufacturer of prosthetic polyester grafts. In February 2011 we closed our AlboGraft Vascular Graft manufacturing facility in Brindisi, Italy and transferred production to our Burlington,
Massachusetts headquarters. Initially, we encountered difficulties and delays which negatively impacted our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the devices to satisfy demand. Also, the transfer was more expensive than we anticipated. In
addition, between October 2011 and February 2012, we received five product complaints on grafts produced in our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters which resulted in the recall of two AlboGraft production lots and a Medical Device Alert sent to
all hospitals in the United Kingdom urging vigilance when using the AlboGraft. If our relocation of this product line to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters continues to be more costly or difficult than anticipated, our financial condition or
results of operations may be harmed.  For any of these reasons or as a result of other factors we may not realize the
anticipated benefits of acquisitions and our operating results may be harmed.  Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could
result in declines in our reported sales and earnings.  For the full year ended December 31, 2011, 36% of net
sales were derived from sales occurring outside of the United States. Because the majority of our sales outside of the Americas are denominated in local currencies, our reported sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates. At present, we do not manufacture any of our products outside the United States and we rarely engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A
decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar could be expected to have a negative impact on our revenue and earnings growth as euro-denominated revenues and earnings, if any, would be translated into U.S. dollars at a reduced value. We
cannot predict the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our assumptions about the market for our products may not be correct. 
We are focused on the market for devices used to treat peripheral vascular disease. We believe that demographic trends point towards an
increase in the need for our products. However, the projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect
or do not materialize or if drug therapies gain more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative treatment, which in each case could adversely affect our business prospects and profitability. For example, sales of our shunt products have declined
in recent quarters, possibly in relation to the introduction of carotid stenting in recent years, and this trend could continue to adversely impact our future growth.  We face intense competition from other companies, technologies, and alternative medical procedures and we may not be able to compete effectively. 
The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, subject to change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and
other activities of industry participants. Although no one company competes against us in all of our product lines, a number of manufacturers of peripheral vascular devices have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader
product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs, and larger facilities than ours; have established 
  20 


Table of Contents

reputations with our target customers; and have developed worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. Our competitors could elect to devote additional resources to the
markets in which we currently enjoy less competition. Also, although we currently have leading market positions in the markets for some of our products, this is not true for the markets for all of our products. We have from time to time experienced
difficulties competing against very large companies.  Recent industry consolidation could make the competitive environment
more difficult for smaller companies like ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, regulatory, marketing, sales, and personnel resources than we do. Certain of these competitors are
able to manufacture at lower costs and may therefore offer comparable products at lower prices. Certain of these competitors may also have greater experience in developing and further improving products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and
manufacturing and marketing such products. Certain of these competitors may obtain patent protection or regulatory approval or clearance, or achieve product commercialization, before us, any of which could materially adversely affect us. Further, if
the trend towards endovascular procedures versus open vascular procedures continues or accelerates, our competitors may be better poised to take advantage of that trend, since our main product lines are used primarily in open vascular procedures.
Because of the size of the vascular disease market opportunity, competitors and potential competitors have dedicated, and we believe will continue to dedicate, significant resources to aggressively promote their products. Also, new product
developments that could compete with us more effectively are likely because the vascular disease market is characterized by extensive research efforts and technological progress. Competitors may develop technologies and products that are safer, more
effective, easier to use, less expensive, or more readily accepted than ours. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may also be able to achieve more efficient manufacturing and distribution
operations than we can. In addition, many of our products face competition from alternative procedures that utilize a different kind of medical device that we do not currently sell. Increased competition could also result in price reductions and
loss of market share, any of which could result in lower revenues and reduced gross profits.  If we fail to convert additional countries
or products from distributor sales to direct sales, or encounter difficulties in effecting such conversions, our results of operations could suffer.  In 2011, we converted Spain and Denmark from distributor sales to direct sales. In the future, we also intend to convert select other countries and products from distributor sales to direct sales. Such
conversions typically result in disruptions in our sales in the applicable geographies. These transitions may also have an adverse effect on our cash flow from operations because distributors, unlike direct sales personnel, pay us for inventory that
they stock for later sale. In addition, switching to a direct sales force may subject us to longer customer collection times and larger bad debt expense, since we would be required to collect customer payments directly rather than through a
distributor. Our distribution agreements are typically exclusive with terms of up to three years. These agreements may
temporarily constrain our ability to convert certain countries or products from a distributor to a direct sales model. Further, even where the payment of compensation is not required by contract or local law, it may be prudent to make such a payment
in order to assure a successful market transition. For example, we paid consulting and transition services fees to our former distributors in Spain and Denmark in connection with recent conversions to direct sales in those countries even though not
required under an existing contract or local law, because the absence of cooperation by a distributor may result in the sudden erosion of our customer base, which could materially harm our ability to sell our product in that country. 
Following termination of any distribution relationship, we may encounter difficulties in transitioning to a direct-sales model in any
country in question. It may take us longer than expected to find sufficient qualified sales personnel to establish an effective sales force, which could negatively impact projected sales. If a distributor sold our products through a network of sales
agents, rather than exclusively through its own personnel, we may not be able to establish relationships with all members of that network, temporarily limiting our access to the existing market. Similarly, failure to maintain or quickly re-establish
a distributor’s close 
  21 


Table of Contents

relationships with the physicians who use our products could cause a drop in sales. Further, it may be difficult or impossible to transfer the assignment of a distributor’s rights to sell
our products, and as a result sales to customers may be delayed until a new agreement or approval is obtained. The transition to a direct sales model may also require us to incur additional expenses and meet regulatory requirements that were
previously the responsibility of the distributor. As a result of these risks, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in transitioning to a direct sales model in Spain, Denmark, or any other countries that we select, and difficulties
that we encounter in these transitions could negatively affect our business.  Current economic instability may harm our operating
results.  Financial markets and the economies in the United States and internationally have recently experienced
disruption and volatility and conditions could worsen. As a result, the economic environment may, among other things:   


 
•
 
 create downward pressure on the pricing of our products; 
 


 
•
 
 adversely affect the collection of accounts receivable, particularly in regions of Southern Europe such as Italy, Spain, and Greece;
  


 
•
 
 increase the sales cycle for certain of our products; 
 


 
•
 
 slow the adoption of new technology;   


 
•
 
 adversely affect our customers, causing them to reduce spending; and 
 


 
•
 
 adversely affect our suppliers, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products. 
Any of these conditions could harm our operating results and liquidity.  If we are unable to increase our selling prices to customers, our rate of net sales growth might be reduced and our operating results could suffer. 
In the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, a material portion of our increases in net sales was driven by higher average
selling prices to our hospital customers across several of our product lines, particularly with respect to sales occurring in the United States. We have in the past been able to rely upon our intellectual property position, our well-known brands,
our established reputation in the vascular surgery device marketplace, and, in some cases, an absence of competition, to implement price increases. If healthcare spending is reduced, particularly in the United States, in response either to
government-enacted healthcare reform or to general economic conditions, if the reimbursement rates for the medical procedures in which our products are used are reduced or constrained, or if competitors introduce lower-priced products of comparable
safety and efficacy, we may become unable to implement further increases in the selling prices of our products. If we become unable to raise selling prices, it might reduce our rate of net sales growth, which could harm our operating results.
 If there is a disruption in the supply of products that we distribute, or if our relationships with their manufacturers are impaired,
our net sales and results of operations could be harmed.  We are party to agreements with Neovasc Inc. to distribute
the XenoSure Biologic Vascular Patch in the United States and most of Europe, and from time to time we have been party to agreements with other manufacturers to distribute products in certain countries in which we have a direct sales force. If we
are unable to market these products successfully, or if our agreement with a manufacturer is terminated early, our net sales and results of operations would likely suffer. If we do not meet our minimum purchase requirements under any distribution
agreement, and do not cure this deficiency, the agreement may be terminated by the manufacturer, which, in the case of Neovasc, would result in the loss of our purchase option to acquire the XenoSure product. In addition, even if we market our
distributed products successfully, if the manufacturer is unable to produce enough of its products to meet our demands, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands, and our net sales and results of operations may suffer. 
  22 


Table of Contents
Our devices may not achieve market acceptance, which could adversely affect our business.
 Some of our devices have been recently introduced into the market, including The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling
Catheter and the Over-The-Wire LeMaitre Valvulotome, and we cannot assure you that any of those devices will achieve market acceptance. The same is true of new devices that we may acquire or internally develop in the future. The marketing of our
products requires a significant amount of time and expense in order to identify and develop relationships with the physicians who may use our products, invest in training and education with these physicians, and employ a sales force that is large
enough to interact with the targeted physicians, with no assurance of success. In some cases, our devices may face competition from devices marketed by our competitors, and our customers may not prefer our devices. In other cases, our devices may be
used in new procedures and techniques, and if physicians do not adopt these procedures and techniques, demand for these devices would fail to develop. For example, in 2010 we launched The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter in Europe, but it
did not achieve widespread market adoption because of user convenience and design issues. This catheter was subsequently withdrawn from the market, redesigned by our research and development department, and then re-released into European and United
States markets in the fourth quarter of 2011. There can be no assurance that the re-designed device will achieve wider market adoption than first version of the device. If our products do not gain market acceptance, our business could be adversely
affected.  If we are unable to manage the anticipated growth of our business, our financial condition and operating results could be
adversely affected.  The growth that we have experienced, and may experience in the future, will continue to provide
challenges to our organization. For example, since 1998 we have completed several acquisitions, and we expect to pursue additional acquisitions in the future. As our operations expand, both in terms of scope and geographic coverage, we expect that
we will need to manage additional relationships with various partners, suppliers, and other organizations. We also will need to manage the corresponding growth of our manufacturing operations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires
us to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and reporting systems and procedures, and may in the future require us to transition to new enterprise management software. Such growth could place a strain on our
administrative and operational infrastructure. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, and we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we
cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, our anticipated growth may be impaired and our financial results could suffer.  The
risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition.
 We derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in markets outside of the United States. For the full
year ended December 31, 2011, 36% of our net sales were derived from our operations outside of the Americas. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in
foreign jurisdictions. These risks include:   


 
•
 
 fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;   


 
•
 
 the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations, including export licensing requirements, duties and tariffs, and
other trade restrictions;   


 
•
 
 the risk of non-compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by our sales representatives or our distributors; 
 


 
•
 
 the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or
prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity; 
  23 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 a shortage of high-quality sales personnel and distributors; 
 


 
•
 
 loss of any key personnel who possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets;
  


 
•
 
 changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that
may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products;   


 
•
 
 the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors; 
 


 
•
 
 scrutiny of foreign tax authorities, which could result in significant fines, penalties, and additional taxes being imposed on us;
  


 
•
 
 pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; 
 


 
•
 
 laws and business practices favoring local companies; 
 


 
•
 
 longer payment cycles;   


 
•
 
 difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; 
 


 
•
 
 difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; 
 


 
•
 
 exposure to different legal and political standards; and 
 


 
•
 
 political, economic, and/or social instability.  We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and
financial condition.  If we experience continued difficulties in manufacturing our AlboGraft Vascular Graft, which was relocated from
Brindisi, Italy to Burlington, Massachusetts in 2011, then our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.  In February 2011, we closed our AlboGraft Vascular Graft manufacturing facility in Brindisi, Italy and transferred production to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters. Initially, we encountered
difficulties and delays which negatively impacted our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the devices to satisfy demand. Also, the transfer has been more expensive than we anticipated. In addition, between October 2011 and February 2012,
we received five product complaints on products produced in Burlington, Massachusetts which resulted in the recall of two AlboGraft production lots and a Medical Device Alert sent to all hospitals in the United Kingdom urging vigilance when using
the AlboGraft. If our relocation of this product line to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters continues to be more costly than anticipated, our financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. 
We depend on single- and limited-source suppliers for some of the components to our products, as well as for acquired products that have not been
transitioned to in-house manufacture, and if any of those suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply them on acceptable terms or otherwise, it could limit our ability to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis or at all.
 We rely on single- and limited-source suppliers for some of our important product components, as well as for products
we have acquired that are not manufactured in-house. For example, our EndoRE remote endarterectomy product line is manufactured for us by third-party suppliers. There are relatively few, or in some cases no, alternative, validated sources of supply
for these components and products. We do not have supply agreements with most of these suppliers, and instead place orders on an as-needed basis. These suppliers could discontinue or be rendered incapable of the manufacture or supply of these
components or products at any time. For instance, the supply of ink for our LifeSpan ePTFE Vascular Graft was indefinitely interrupted due to a fire at our former single-source supplier. Although we are sourcing an alternate supplier for that
component and feel 
  24 


Table of Contents

that we have an adequate supply of ink on hand, it is possible that we could experience delays in manufacturing the product if we are not successful in timely validating the new supply. We do not
carry a significant inventory of these components and products. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers, if required, may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any supply
interruption from our vendors or failure to obtain additional vendors for any of the components used to manufacture our products would limit our ability to manufacture our products, may result in production delays and increased costs, and may limit
our ability to deliver products to our customers. If we are unable to identify alternate sources of supply for the components, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increase design
and manufacturing costs, and increase prices for our products. We cannot assure you that any such modified products would be as effective as the predecessor products, or that such modified products would gain market acceptance. This could lead to
customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation and our financial condition or results of operations may be harmed.  Any
disruption in our manufacturing facilities could harm our results of operations.  Our principal worldwide executive,
distribution, and manufacturing operations are located at adjacent 27,098 square foot and 21,929 square foot leased facilities located in Burlington, Massachusetts. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products
would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace in the event of a natural or man-made disaster. In such event, we could not shift production to alternate manufacturing facilities, and we would be forced to
rely on third-party manufacturers. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses, including potential damage to
our reputation, and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.  Our focus on the needs of vascular surgeons
could harm our business if interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists perform a greater percentage of new procedures that replace those procedures traditionally performed by vascular surgeons, or if vascular surgeons increasingly
specialize in procedures for which we do not sell devices.  The treatment of peripheral vascular disease is
increasingly shifting from open vascular surgery to minimally invasive endovascular procedures. We market and sell our products primarily to vascular surgeons, and the majority of our marketing efforts and sales relate to products used in open
vascular surgery rather than in endovascular procedures. Recent transactions in 2011 have further concentrated our focus on open vascular procedures. For instance, in 2011 we divested a large portion of our endovascular product portfolio, our
TAArget Thoracic Stent Graft and our UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft, and further ended our relationship with Endologix, Inc. for distribution of its Powerlink stent graft.  In addition to performing traditional open surgical procedures, vascular surgeons in growing numbers also perform minimally invasive, image-guided interventional procedures for peripheral vascular
disease. However, vascular surgeons may not adopt these procedures in the numbers we expect and instead these procedures may be largely performed by interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists. Many of our competitors have focused
their sales efforts on these interventionalists. If interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists perform a greater percentage of these new procedures than we expect, our net sales may decline. 
Moreover, demographic trends and other market factors, such as reimbursement rates, are driving vascular surgeons in the United States
and potentially in other markets to increasingly specialize in certain kinds of procedures, such as endovascular therapies, the creation and maintenance of dialysis access sites, and the treatment of varicose veins. Sometimes these physicians will
discontinue performing other vascular procedures. If this trend continues, it could lead to the fragmentation of our customer base, which would reduce cross-selling opportunities and the efficiency of each sales call by our sales representatives,
which in turn would negatively impact our business. 
  25 


Table of Contents
We depend on our senior management team and other key scientific, sales, and technical personnel, and
if we are unable to retain them or recruit additional qualified personnel we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives.  We depend on the continued services of our senior management team and other key scientific, sales, and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly
qualified personnel. Our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Each of our key employees may
terminate his or her employment with us at any time. The loss of any of our senior management team or key employees could harm our business. We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities, and other
organizations. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel on acceptable terms. We could face significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing, and retaining engineering and sales employees. Any loss
or interruption of the services of our other key personnel could also significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives, because we cannot assure you that we would be able to find an appropriate
replacement should the need arise. We maintain life insurance payable to us on our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George W. LeMaitre, but not on our other key personnel.  If we do not maintain our relationships with our physician customers, our growth may be limited and our business could be harmed. 
Physicians typically influence the medical device purchasing decisions of the hospitals and other healthcare institutions in which they
practice. Consequently, our relationships with our physician customers are critical to our continued growth. We believe that these relationships are based on our long-standing reputation and presence in the market for peripheral vascular devices,
the quality of our product offerings and clinical outcomes, our marketing efforts and our presence at medical society meetings. Any actual or perceived diminution in our reputation or the quality of our products or our failure or inability to
maintain these other efforts could damage our current relationships, or prevent us from forming new relationships, with physicians and cause our growth to be limited and our business to be harmed. 
Our lack of customer purchase contracts makes it difficult to predict sales and plan manufacturing requirements, which could lead to lower net
sales, higher expenses, and reduced margins.  We generally do not have long-term purchase contracts with our hospital
customers, who typically order products on an as-needed basis. As a result, it is difficult to accurately forecast our component and product requirements. Our manufacturing and operating expenses are largely based on anticipated sales volume, and a
significant portion of these expenses is and will continue to be fixed. We must plan production and order product components and third-party manufactured products several months in advance of customer orders. In addition, lead times for product
components and third-party manufactured products that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier and demand for each component at any given time. These factors expose us to a number of risks, such as the
following:   


 
•
 
 if we overestimate our requirements, or experience shortages, we may be obligated to carry more inventory than we need, which could result in
write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory;   


 
•
 
 if we underestimate our requirements, we may have an insufficient product component inventory, which could disrupt manufacturing of our products and
cause delays in shipments and net sales; and   


 
•
 
 if we experience shortages of product components from time to time, the manufacturing and shipping of our products could be delayed.
 If any of the foregoing occurs, it could lead to lower net sales, higher expenses, and reduced margins.

  26 


Table of Contents
The use or misuse of our products may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which
could be costly to our business.  Although we offer training for physicians in the use of some of our products, we do
not require that physicians be trained in the use of our products. Not requiring training specific to the use of our devices may expose us to greater risk of product liability if injuries occur during a procedure involving our products. In addition,
if demand for our products continues to grow, less skilled surgeons will likely use the devices, potentially leading to an increased incidence of patient injury and an increased risk of product liability or product complaints. 
If our products are defectively designed, manufactured, or labeled, contain defective components, or are misused, or if our products are
found to have caused or contributed to injuries or death, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. We are from time to time involved in product liability claims. Product liability claims could divert
management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, and result in sizable damage awards against us. Claims of this nature may also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market and subject us
to product recalls.  We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any
claim made against us. Further, we may not be able to maintain the same level of coverage, and we may not be able to obtain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us,
with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing coverage in the future. Additionally, if any such product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or
is in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could be harmed.  We rely on our independent distributors to market and sell our
products in select markets outside of the United States and Canada.  Sales of our products through independent
distributors represented 7% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our success in these markets depends largely upon marketing arrangements with distributors, in particular their sales and service expertise and relationships
with their respective customers in the marketplace. Although we intend to replace some of these distributors with a direct sales force, this will take time and we may maintain a distribution model in some markets. We do not control our distributors
and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans.  Many of our distributors initially obtain and maintain
foreign regulatory approval for sale of our products in their respective countries. We do not have long-term contracts with many of our distributors, and our distributors may terminate their relationships with us on little or no notice. In addition,
some of our distributors are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us, may sell products that compete with ours or devote more efforts to selling other products, and may stop selling our products at any time. If we lose any of
our significant distributors, if we fail to recruit and retain additional skilled distributors in these locations, or if our distributors devote more effort to selling products other than ours, our operations could be harmed. We have experienced
turnover with some of our distributors in the past that has impacted our short-term financial results while we transitioned to new distributors. Similar occurrences could happen in the future. 
We may require additional capital and failure to attract additional capital on acceptable terms could impair our growth. 
We may require additional capital to execute our strategies and expand our business. In particular, we depend on access to capital to
acquire products and technologies that complement our existing product lines. If we complete an acquisition at a purchase price approaching or in excess of available capital resources, or if these resources are otherwise insufficient to fund our
operations, we will require debt or equity financing. Equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to our stockholders. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt, this debt will be senior to our outstanding shares of capital
stock upon our liquidation. The availability of 
  27 


Table of Contents

such financing depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we exert little control. Financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms
satisfactory to us and could result in significant stockholder dilution. In addition, covenants in debt financing arrangements may restrict our ability to operate our business or obtain additional debt financing. These covenants may also require us
to attain certain levels of financial performance and we may not be able to do so; any such failure may result in the acceleration of such debt and the foreclosure by our creditors on the collateral we used to secure the debt. We may also elect to
raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing, marketing, or similar arrangements, and these arrangements may require us to relinquish valuable rights to our products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses that are not favorable to
us. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to curtail our growth strategy by reducing or delaying capital expenditures and acquisitions, delaying or postponing our product development efforts, selling
assets, restructuring our operations, or refinancing our indebtedness.  From time to time we may become subject to tax audits or similar
proceedings, and as a result we may owe additional taxes, interest, and penalties in amounts that may be material.  We
are subject to income taxes in many countries, jurisdictions, and provinces, including the United States. In determining our global provision for income taxes, we are required to exercise judgment. Regularly, we make estimates where the ultimate tax
determination is uncertain. While we believe our estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of any tax audit or tax-related litigation will not be materially different from that reflected in our historical income tax
provisions and accruals.  In addition, we are subject to sales, use, and similar taxes in many countries, jurisdictions, and
provinces, including those states in the United States where we maintain a physical presence or have a substantial nexus. These taxing regimes are complex. For example, in the United States, each state and local taxing authority has its own
interpretation of what constitutes a sufficient physical presence or nexus to require the collection and remittance of these taxes. Similarly, each state and local taxing authority has its own rules regarding the applicability of sales tax by
customer or product type. We employ a variety of strategies from time to time with respect to our international operations. There can be no assurance that these strategies will be accepted by the relevant taxing authorities. 
We have reviewed the tax positions taken, or to be taken, in our tax returns for all tax years currently open to examination by a taxing
authority. As of December 31, 2011, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits, that is the reserve for uncertain tax positions, was approximately $329,000. The assessment of additional taxes, interest, and penalties as a result of audits,
litigation, or otherwise, could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition.
Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment  Oversight of the medical device industry might affect the manner in which we may sell medical devices and compete in the marketplace. 
There are laws and regulations that govern the means by which companies in the healthcare industry may market their products to healthcare
professionals and may compete by discounting the prices of their products, including for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, state law
equivalents to these federal laws that are meant to protect against fraud and abuse and analogous laws in foreign countries. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, civil and criminal
penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Although we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices and customer discount arrangements to
comply with those laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that:   


 
•
 
 government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing those laws will not assert that our sales and marketing practices or customer
discount arrangements are in violation of those laws or regulations; or 
  28 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 government regulators or courts will interpret those laws or regulations in a manner consistent with our interpretation.
 Correspondingly, federal and state laws are also sometimes open to interpretation, and from time to time we
may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage if our interpretation differs from that of our competitors.  In January 2004,
AdvaMed, the principal United States trade association for the medical device industry, put in place a model “code of conduct” that sets forth standards by which its members should abide in the promotion of their products. AdvaMed issued a
revised “code of conduct” effective July 1, 2009. We have in place policies and procedures for compliance that we believe are at least as stringent as those set forth in the revised AdvaMed Code, and we provide routine training to our
sales and marketing personnel on our policies regarding sales and marketing practices. Nevertheless, the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we
believe that this trend will continue. For example, recent federal legislation and state legislation would require detailed disclosure of gifts and other remuneration made to health care professionals. In addition, prosecutorial scrutiny and
governmental oversight, on the state and federal levels, over device companies regarding the retention of healthcare professionals as consultants has limited the manner in which medical device companies may retain healthcare professionals as
consultants. Various hospital organizations, medical societies and trade associations are establishing their own practices that may require detailed disclosures of relationships between healthcare professionals and medical device companies or ban or
restrict certain marketing and sales practices such as gifts and business meals.  Our business is subject to complex, costly, and
burdensome regulations. We could be subject to significant penalties if we fail to comply.  The production and
marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. U.S. and foreign regulations applicable to medical devices
are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, the testing, marketing, and premarket clearance or approval of new medical devices, in addition to regulating manufacturing practices, reporting, promotion and advertising, importing and exporting,
labeling, and record-keeping procedures.  Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in
governmental agencies or a court taking action, including any of the following:   


 
•
 
 issuing public warning letters to us;   


 
•
 
 imposing fines and penalties on us;   


 
•
 
 issuing an injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; 
 


 
•
 
 bringing civil or criminal charges against us;   


 
•
 
 delaying the introduction of our new products into the market; 
 


 
•
 
 ordering a recall of, or detaining or seizing, our products; or 
 


 
•
 
 withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. 
If any or all of the foregoing were to occur, our business, results of operations, and reputation could suffer. 
If we are not successful in obtaining and maintaining clearances and approvals from governmental agencies, we will not be able to sell our
products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered.  Our products require premarket clearance or approval
in the United States and the CE Mark or other approvals in foreign countries where they are sold. Each medical device that we wish to market in the United States generally must receive either 510(k) clearance or approval of a premarket application,
or PMA, from the 
  29 


Table of Contents

FDA before the product can be marketed or sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance procedure usually takes from three to twelve months from the date the
FDA receives the application, but may take significantly longer. Although 510(k) clearances have been obtained for nearly all of our current products that require 510(k) clearances, the FDA may condition, limit or prohibit our sales of these
products if safety or effectiveness problems develop with the devices. Our new products or significantly modified marketed products could be denied 510(k) clearance and required to undergo the more burdensome PMA approval process if they are not
found to be substantially equivalent.  The PMA approval process is much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain than the premarket
notification process. It generally takes from six months to three years from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with, the FDA, and may take even longer. Achieving premarket approval typically requires extensive clinical trials and
may require the filing of numerous amendments with the FDA over time. We do not have significant experience in obtaining PMA approval for our products.  The FDA has proposed changes for which FDA clearance to market would possibly require clinical data, more extensive manufacturing information and postmarket data. The FDA is also proposing that an FDA
inspection of the manufacturing facility may be required for certain products prior to clearance of the 510(k), which is similar to the requirements of a Class III device. As part of the 510(k) reform, the FDA proposes to issue regulations
defining grounds and procedures for rescission of 510(k) applications that have previously been cleared to market. The FDA may also require the more extensive PMA process for certain products. Our ability to market our products outside the United
States is also subject to regulatory approval, including our ability to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products in the clinical setting.  Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, the approval or clearance could limit the uses or the claims for which the product may be labeled and promoted, which may limit the market
for our products. If we do not obtain and maintain foreign regulatory or FDA approval with respect to our products, as applicable, we will not be able to sell our products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered. 
Modifications to our marketed devices may require new regulatory clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall
the modified devices until clearances or approvals are obtained.  Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that
could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change as specified by FDA guidelines, requires the submission of another 510(k) or PMA application to address the change. The FDA requires every manufacturer to
make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or PMA. Although in the first instance we may determine that a change does not rise to a level of significance that would require us to make a submission, the
FDA may review and disagree with our determination and can require us to submit a 510(k) or a PMA for a significant technological change or major change or modification in intended use. If the FDA requires us to submit a 510(k) or a PMA for any
modification to a previously cleared device, we may be required to cease marketing the device, recall it, and not resume marketing until we obtain clearance or approval from the FDA for the modified version of the device. Delays in our receipt of
regulatory clearance or approval will cause delays in our ability to sell our products, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, and prospects. Also, we may be subject to regulatory fines, penalties, and/or other
sanctions authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.  If we or some of our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s
Quality System Regulation and other applicable postmarket requirements, our manufacturing operations could be disrupted, our product sales and profitability could suffer, and we may become subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions.
 After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. We are subject to inspection and
marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with any regulatory requirements, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions. 
  30 


Table of Contents
We and some of our suppliers must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation,
which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage, and shipping of medical devices. The FDA enforces the
Quality System Regulation through unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. In December 2011 and January 2012, we underwent routine audits from our European Notified Body and the FDA,
respectively. Although the results of these inspections were satisfactory, the timing and scope of future audits is unknown and it is possible, despite our belief that our quality systems and the operation of our manufacturing facilities will remain
in compliance with U.S, and non-U.S. regulatory requirements, that a future audit may result in one or more unsatisfactory results. If we or one of our suppliers fails a Quality System Regulation inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by
us or one of our suppliers is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action against us, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed.  We are also subject to the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or off-label uses and to the medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations that require us to report
to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or if our device malfunctions and a recurrence of the malfunction would likely result in a death or serious injury. We must also file reports with the FDA of
some device corrections and removals, and we must adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. If we fail to comply with these or other FDA requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant
compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take significant enforcement actions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and our reputation.  In addition, most other countries, such as Japan, require us to comply with manufacturing and quality assurance standards for medical devices that are similar to those in force in the United States before
marketing and selling our products in those countries. If we fail to comply, we would lose our ability to market and sell our products in those foreign countries.  Even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, our products may be subject to product recalls, which may harm our reputation and divert managerial and financial resources.
 The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order mandatory recall of our
products or order their removal from the market if the governmental entity finds that our products would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component
failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including labeling defects. For example, we initiated voluntary recalls of two lots of our AlboGraft vascular graft in October 2011 and February 2012, respectively, in response to customer complaints
of a manufacturing defect that compromised the safety of the product. There can be no assurance that these failures will not reoccur or that other problems will not develop in the future. Any future recall of our products may harm our reputation
with customers and divert managerial and financial resources.  The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely
affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.  In March 2010, significant reforms to the U.S.
healthcare system were adopted in the form of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the PPACA). The PPACA includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health
insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of most medical devices beginning in
2013. While we are still evaluating the impact of this tax on our overall business, in 2011 this would have equated to an excise tax of approximately $0.9 million. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The
PPACA and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. In addition, the excise tax will increase our cost of doing business. The impact of the PPACA and
these proposals could harm our operating results and liquidity. 
  31 


Table of Contents
Domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement
practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our devices.
 Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill various third-party payors,
such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate
reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of our products because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can
significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan, France and other countries may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for
our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from
private and governmental third-party payors.  Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad
continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. For example, in an effort to
decrease costs, certain hospitals and other customers may resterilize our products intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors in lieu of purchasing new products from us. 
Further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the United States and abroad, or adverse decisions relating
to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or result in the denial of coverage for those procedures. Examples of these reforms or
adverse decisions include price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements. Any of such reforms or adverse decisions resulting in
restrictive reimbursement practices or denials of coverage could have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them.  If we do not comply with foreign regulatory requirements to market our products outside the United States, our business will be harmed. 
Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country.
These requirements and the amount of time required for approval may differ from our experiences with the FDA in the United States. In some cases, we rely on our non-U.S. distributors to obtain premarket approvals, complete product registrations,
comply with clinical trial requirements, and complete those steps that are customarily taken in the applicable jurisdictions to comply with governmental and quasi-governmental regulation. In the future, we expect to continue to rely on distributors
in this manner in those countries where we continue to market and sell our products through them. Failure to satisfy these foreign regulations would impact our ability to sell our products in these countries and could cause our business to suffer.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain the required regulatory approvals in these countries. 
Our products are regulated in the European Union under the European Medical Devices Directive (93/42/EC as amended by 2007/47/EC). In
order to market our medical devices in the European Union, we are required to obtain CE mark certification, which denotes conformity to the essential requirements of the Medical Devices Directive. We have received CE mark certification to sell
nearly all of our products. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a CE mark for new products in the future or for modifications to our existing products or in the manufacturing of our products, and obtaining a CE mark may
involve a significant amount of time and expense, stringent clinical and preclinical testing, or modification of our products and could result in limitations being placed on the use of our products in order to obtain approval. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Maintaining a CE mark is contingent upon our continued compliance with applicable European
medical device requirements, including limitations on advertising and promotion of medical devices and requirements governing the handling of adverse events. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining the CE mark for any of
our current products. In particular, adverse event reporting requirements in the European Union mandate that we report incidents which led or could have led to death or serious deterioration in health. Under certain circumstances, we could be
required to or could voluntarily initiate a recall or removal of our product from the market in order to address product deficiencies or malfunctions. For instance, we initiated voluntary recalls of two lots of our AlboGraft vascular graft in
October 2011 and February 2012, respectively, in response to customer complaints of a manufacturing defect. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources. 
Failure to receive or maintain approval would prohibit us from selling these products in member countries of the European Union, and
would require significant delays in obtaining individual country approvals. If we do not receive or maintain these approvals, our business could be harmed.  Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by European regulatory authorities and Notified Bodies, and we must demonstrate compliance with the Medical Devices Directive. Our most
recent periodic inspection by our European Notified Body was in December 2011. Any failure by us to comply with European requirements in this regard may entail our taking corrective action, such as modification of our policies and procedures. In
addition, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations for some period of time until we can demonstrate that appropriate steps have been taken. There can be no assurance that we will be found in compliance with such standards in future
audits.  In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (the MHLW) regulates medical devices through the Pharmaceutical
Affairs Law, which was reformed effective April 1, 2005. The revisions to Japanese regulations have resulted in longer lead times for product development.  Any such delay in product registrations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 
Certain of our products contain materials derived from animal sources and may become subject to additional regulation. 
Our AlboGraft Vascular Graft, AlboSure Vascular Patch, and XenoSure Biologic Patch products contain bovine tissue or material derived from
bovine tissue. Products that contain materials derived from animal sources, including food, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, are increasingly subject to scrutiny in the media and by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities are concerned
about the potential for the transmission of disease from animals to humans via those materials. This public scrutiny has been particularly acute in Japan and Western Europe with respect to products derived from animal sources, because of concern
that materials infected with the agent that causes bovine spongiform encephalopathy, otherwise known as BSE or mad cow disease, may, if ingested or implanted, cause a variant of the human Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, an ultimately fatal disease with
no known cure. Cases of BSE in cattle discovered in Canada and the United States have increased awareness of the issue in North America. Certain countries, such as Japan, have issued regulations that require our products be processed from bovine
tissue sourced from countries where no cases of BSE have occurred. Products that contain materials derived from animals, including our products, may become subject to additional regulation, or even be banned in certain countries, because of concern
over the potential for the transmission of infections agents. Significant new regulation, or a ban of our products, could impair our current business or our ability to expand our business.  Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability. 
Our manufacturing operations and our research and development programs involve the use of hazardous substances and are subject to a
variety of federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations relating to 
  33 


Table of Contents

the storage, use, discharge, disposal, and remediation of, and human exposure to, hazardous substances. Our research and development and manufacturing operations produce biological waste
materials, such as human and animal tissue, and waste solvents, such as isopropyl alcohol. Regulatory authorities permit these operations, and the resulting waste materials are disposed of in material compliance with environmental laws and
regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive, and non-compliance could result in substantial liabilities, which could exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, our manufacturing operations may result in the release,
discharge, emission, or disposal of hazardous substances that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, including costs for investigation and remediation.  We cannot assure you that violations of these laws and regulations will not occur in the future or have not occurred in the past as a result of human error, accidents, equipment failure, or other causes.
The expense associated with environmental regulation and remediation could harm our financial condition and operating results. 
Risks Related to Intellectual Property  If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or prevent use of our intellectual property by third parties, we could lose a significant competitive advantage and our business
may suffer.  Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our patents, trademarks, and other
proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how, and
trademark laws, as well as license agreements and contractual provisions, to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These measures may only afford limited protection and may not: 
 


 
•
 
 prevent our competitors from duplicating our products; 
 


 
•
 
 prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology; or 
 


 
•
 
 permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage.  The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain in the future might also be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In
addition, our pending patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not provide commercially meaningful protection, as competitors may be able to design around our patents to produce alternative, non-infringing designs. Should such
challenges to our patents be successful, competitors might be able to market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to ours.  Additionally, we may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. We have a policy of requiring key employees and consultants and
corporate partners with access to trade secrets or other confidential information to execute confidentiality agreements. Our confidentiality agreements also require our employees to assign to us all rights to any inventions made or conceived during
their employment with us. We also generally require our consultants to assign to us any inventions made during the course of their engagement by us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or
adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer, or disclosure of confidential information or inventions. 
In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws
of the United States. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products, or services and our competitors could commercialize similar technologies, which could result in a
decrease in our sales and market share. 
  34 


Table of Contents
If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur
liabilities and costs, and we may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product.  The medical device
industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios.
Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We
face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights, and we cannot assure you that our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Our efforts
to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: 
 


 
•
 
 be expensive and time consuming to defend;   


 
•
 
 result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property;
  


 
•
 
 harm our reputation;   


 
•
 
 cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; 
 


 
•
 
 require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products, which may not be possible and could be costly and time consuming if it is possible to do
so at all;   


 
•
 
 require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, which
agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all;   


 
•
 
 divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business; or 
 


 
•
 
 result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation.
 It is also possible that one of our competitors could claim that our manufacturing process violates an
existing patent. If we were unsuccessful in defending such a claim, we may be forced to stop production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities.  In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product’s continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. If our business is successful, the possibility
may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us.  If we believe our product is or may be the subject of a
patent with a third party, we attempt to reach a license agreement with them to manufacture, market, and sell these products. If we fail to reach an agreement with a third party patent holder that covers a product we offer, we could be required to
pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property and may be forced to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. 
In addition, we may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the United States Patent Office or opposition proceedings
conducted in foreign patent offices challenging the priority of invention or the validity of our patents. For example, in 2005 and 2006, respectively, Boston Scientific Corporation initiated opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office
claiming that we were not the first to file a patent application on certain material. As a result of these opposition proceedings, some of our patent claims were canceled. 
  35 


Table of Contents
We may become involved in lawsuits and administrative proceedings to protect, defend, or enforce our
patents that would be expensive and time consuming.  In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate
patent litigation or interference or opposition proceedings against third parties in the United States or in foreign countries. The defense of intellectual property rights, including patent rights through lawsuits, interference, or opposition
proceedings, and other legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and can divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Such costs increase our operating expenses and reduce our resources available for
development activities. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.
 Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation,
there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation and despite protective orders entered by the court, confidential
information may be inadvertently disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions, or study testimony. This disclosure could materially adversely affect our business and financial results.
 If we fail to observe the terms of our agreements or fail to reach agreement with third-party patent holders, we may lose the ability
to manufacture, market, or sell some of our products.  Certain aspects of our products are or may be the subject of
patents held by third parties. If we believe our product is or may be the subject of a patent with a third party, we attempt to reach a license agreement with them to manufacture, market, and sell these products. These arrangements do or may require
us to pay royalties, typically determined as a percentage of our net sales for the underlying product. If we fail to reach agreement with a third party patent holder that covers a product we offer, we could be required to pay significant damages to
third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property and may be forced to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. Further, if we enter into a license agreement regarding a third party
patent, but we fail to make these payments or otherwise fail to observe the terms of these agreements, we may lose our ability to sell these products.  Risks Related to Our Common Stock  Our stock price may be volatile, and your
investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value.  There has been significant volatility in the market
price and trading volume of equity securities that is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to
resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, a low volume of trading in our common stock, and other
factors.  Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: 
 


 
•
 
 actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; 
 


 
•
 
 our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; 
 


 
•
 
 public concern as to the safety or efficacy of our products; 
 


 
•
 
 the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
  


 
•
 
 our determination whether or not to continue the payment of quarterly cash dividends; 
  36 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 our determination whether or not to continue our share repurchase program; 
 


 
•
 
 strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; 
 


 
•
 
 developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 our inability to raise additional capital;   


 
•
 
 changes in financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, and responses to such events;
  


 
•
 
 new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; 
 


 
•
 
 light volume of trades of our common stock;   


 
•
 
 the discontinuation of a product line or other revenue generating activity, such as our stent grafts; 
 


 
•
 
 adverse regulatory actions which may necessitate recalls of our products or warning letters that negatively affect the markets for our products;
  


 
•
 
 sales of common stock by us or our directors, officers, or principal stockholders; 
 


 
•
 
 our relatively small public float; and   


 
•
 
 changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies, or our industry
generally.  In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities,
securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future
performance of our business.  Our directors, officers, and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions
that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders.  Our directors, officers, and affiliated stockholders
holding more than 5% of our common stock collectively control almost a majority of our outstanding common stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, would be able to
control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of
delaying or preventing a change in control, might adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders.  Future acquisitions that we make may be dilutive to our current stockholders.  We intend to pursue the acquisition of complementary products, technologies, or businesses, and in connection with these acquisitions we may use substantial portions of our available cash or make dilutive
issuances of securities. In addition, an acquisition could impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to recognize acquisition expenses or amortize, depreciate, or impair acquired assets. This debt would be senior to
our outstanding shares of capital stock upon our liquidation. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay, or prevent a
change in control of our company.  Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may
have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:   


 
•
 
 the division of our board of directors into three classes; 
 


 
•
 
 the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or due to the resignation
or departure of an existing board member;   


 
•
 
 the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director
candidates;   


 
•
 
 the requirement for the advance notice of nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a
stockholders’ meeting;   


 
•
 
 the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; 
 


 
•
 
 the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of
directors, which rights could be senior to those of our common stock;   


 
•
 
 the elimination of the rights of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting;
  


 
•
 
 the required approval of at least 75% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the
provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the inability of stockholders to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; and 
 


 
•
 
 the required approval of at least 75% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors with cause.
 We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation
Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from
making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that
owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. 
We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to
common stockholders in the future.  In February 2011, our Board of Directors adopted a quarterly dividend program
for the purpose of returning capital to our stockholders. However, we have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risks and uncertainties described in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents we file from time to time with the SEC. Future dividends, if any, will be authorized by our Board of Directors and declared by us based upon a variety of factors deemed relevant by our directors,
including, among other things, our financial condition, liquidity, earnings projections and business prospects. In addition, financial covenants in any credit facility to which we become a party may restrict our ability to pay future quarterly
dividends. We can provide no assurance of our ability to pay dividends in the future. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Our Board of Directors may decide not to continue our share repurchase program. 
In July 2009, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 million of our common stock from time to time on the
open market or in privately negotiated transactions. In October 2009, our Board of Directors increased this amount to $2.0 million, and in July 2010, our Board of Directors further increased this amount to $5.0 million. In November 2011, our Board
of Directors further increased this amount to $10.0 million and extended the program through December 31, 2013. The timing and number of any shares repurchased will be determined based on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors.
Repurchases may also be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan, which would permit shares to be repurchased when we might otherwise be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at
any time and will conclude no later than December 31, 2013, unless otherwise extended by our Board of Directors. If the Board of Directors withdraws authority for our share repurchase program, our stock price may be negatively affected.
  


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 
None.   


Item 2.
Properties  Our principal
worldwide executive, distribution, and manufacturing operations are located at adjacent 27,098 square foot and 21,929 square foot leased facilities located in Burlington, Massachusetts. In addition, our international operations are headquartered at
a 12,841 square foot leased facility located in Sulzbach, Germany, and our Asian operations are located at a 2,140 square foot leased facility located in Tokyo, Japan. In addition, we have an Italian sales office located in a 1,400 square foot
leased facility located in Milan, Italy and a Spanish sales office located in an 800 square foot leased facility located in Madrid, Spain.  The leases for our Burlington, Sulzbach, Milan, Madrid, and Tokyo facilities expire in 2017, 2016, 2016, 2013, and 2013, respectively. Based on our current operating plan, we believe our current
facilities are adequate.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  In the
ordinary course of business, we are from time to time involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations, proceedings, and threats of litigation consisting of intellectual property, commercial and other matters. While the outcome of these proceedings and
claims cannot be predicted with certainty, there are no matters, as of December 31, 2011, that, in the opinion of management, might have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
 


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 
Not applicable. 
  39 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Market Information  Our
common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “LMAT” on October 19, 2006. The following table sets forth the high and low sales closing prices of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ National Market for
the eight quarters ending December 31, 2011:   












 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Year ended December 31, 2010:
  
 
 
  
 
 

 First quarter ended March 31, 2010
  
$
5.11
  
  
$
4.42
  

 Second quarter ended June 30, 2010
  
$
5.81
  
  
$
4.50
  

 Third quarter ended September 30, 2010
  
$
7.28
  
  
$
5.19
  

 Fourth quarter ended December 31, 2010
  
$
7.09
  
  
$
6.03
  





 Year ended December 31, 2011:
  
 
 
  
 
 

 First quarter ended March 31, 2011
  
$
7.20
  
  
$
6.62
  

 Second quarter ended June 30, 2011
  
$
7.18
  
  
$
6.36
  

 Third quarter ended September 30, 2011
  
$
7.50
  
  
$
6.22
  

 Fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011
  
$
6.42
  
  
$
5.28
  
 Holders of Record  On March 21, 2012, the closing price per share of our common stock was $5.80 as reported on The NASDAQ Global Market, and we had approximately 364 stockholders of record. In addition, we believe that
a significant number of beneficial owners of our common stock hold their shares in street name.  Dividend Policy 
On February 24, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a policy for the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock of
$0.02 per share. Future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The dividend activity for the year ended December 31,
2011 is as follows:   










 Record Date
 
 Payment Date
 
 Per Share Amount
 
 Dividend Payment

 
 
 
 
 
 
(in thousands)

 March 22, 2011
 
April 5, 2011
 
$0.02
 
$309

 May 20, 2011
 
June 6, 2011
 
$0.02
 
$310

 August 19, 2011
 
September 6, 2011
 
$0.02
 
$310

 November 23, 2011
 
December 6, 2011
 
$0.02
 
$308
 On February 23, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock
of $0.025 per share payable on April 3, 2012, to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 20, 2012, which will total approximately $0.4 million.  Stock Price Performance Graph  Set forth below is a graph comparing the
cumulative total stockholder return on LeMaitre’s common stock with the NASDAQ US Composite Index, the NASDAQ Medical Equipment Index and a peer group for the period covering from December 31, 2006, through the end of LeMaitre’s
fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. 
  40 


Table of Contents

The graph assumes an investment of $100.00 made on December 31, 2006, in (i) LeMaitre’s common stock, (ii) the stocks comprising the NASDAQ US Composite Index,
(iii) stocks comprising the NASDAQ Medical Equipment Index, (iv) the stocks comprising our peer group, and (v) the stocks comprising our peer group as presented in the prior year Form 10-K. This graph is not “soliciting
material,” is not deemed “filed” with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of LeMaitre under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before
or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing.    

  




























 
  
12/31/06
 
  
12/31/07
 
  
12/31/08
 
  
12/31/09
 
  
12/31/10
 
  
12/31/11
 

 LeMaitre Vascular, Inc
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
103.33
  
  
 
38.47
  
  
 
83.33
  
  
 
112.83
  
  
 
99.91
  

 NASDAQ Composite
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
110.26
  
  
 
65.65
  
  
 
95.19
  
  
 
112.10
  
  
 
110.81
  

 NASDAQ Medical Equipment
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
136.67
  
  
 
74.41
  
  
 
101.38
  
  
 
108.94
  
  
 
122.28
  

 Old Peer Group
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
95.43
  
  
 
70.68
  
  
 
85.58
  
  
 
97.15
  
  
 
88.77
  

 New Peer Group
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
100.11
  
  
 
80.16
  
  
 
88.07
  
  
 
99.28
  
  
 
96.46
  
 LeMaitre’s fiscal year ends on the last day of December each year; data in the above table reflects
market values for our stock and NASDAQ and peer group indices as of the close of trading on the last trading day of year presented.  The old peer group included the following companies: AngioDynamics, Inc., Cardiovascular Systems Inc., Endologix, Inc., Integra Lifesciences Holdings Corporation, Kensey Nash Corporation, Merit Medical
Systems Inc., Spectranetics Corp., and Vascular Solutions, Inc.  The new peer group includes the following companies:
AngioDynamics, Inc., Cardiovascular Systems Inc., Cryolife Inc., Endologix, Inc., Integra Lifesciences Holdings Corporation, Merit Medical Systems Inc., 
  41 


Table of Contents

Spectranetics Corp., Synovis Life Technologies Inc., and Vascular Solutions, Inc. This new peer group differs from our old peer group in that we removed Kensey Nash Corporation since it is
primarily a medical material manufacturer, and we added Cryolife Inc. and Synovis Life Technologies Inc., who each offer biologic solutions to the medical device industry.  Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities  Not Applicable. 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  In the quarter ending December 31, 2011, we repurchased 5,559 shares of our common stock in conjunction with the forfeiture of shares to satisfy the employees’ obligations with respect to
withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of shares of restricted stock.   




















 
  
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 

 Period
  
Total Number ofShares (or Units)Purchased(1)
 
  
Average Price 
PaidPerShare (or Unit)
 
  
Total Number ofShares (or Units)Purchased asPart of
PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Program(2)
 
  
Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares (or Units)that may yet
bePurchased underthe Plans orProgram
 

 October 1, 2011 through October 31, 2011
  
 
36,822
  
  
$
6.17
  
  
 
36,822
  
  
$
5,825,665
  

 November 1, 2011 through November 30, 2011
  
 
58,247
  
  
$
5.59
  
  
 
52,688
  
  
$
5,531,417
  

 December 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011
  
 
36,793
  
  
$
5.49
  
  
 
36,793
  
  
$
5,329,368
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
131,862
  
  
$
5.73
  
  
 
126,303
  
  
$
5,329,368
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
For the three months ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased 5,559 shares of our common stock to satisfy the employees’ obligations with respect to
withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units.   


(2)
In July 2009, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 million of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately
negotiated transactions. In October 2009, our Board of Directors increased this amount to $2.0 million, in July 2010, our Board of Directors further increased this amount to $5.0 million, and in November 2011, our Board of Directors further
increased this amount to $10.0 million. The expiration date of this program is December 31, 2013. 
  42 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data 
You should read the following selected consolidated financial data in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the
related notes which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report and the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this Annual Report. We have derived the consolidated statement
of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, from our audited consolidated financial statements, which are included elsewhere in this
Annual Report. We have derived the consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 from our audited consolidated
financial statements, which are not included in this Annual Report. Our historical results for any prior period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any future period. 
 
























 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net sales
  
$
57,685
  
 
$
56,060
  
 
$
50,908
  
 
$
48,720
  
 
$
41,446
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
17,458
  
 
 
14,341
  
 
 
13,604
  
 
 
14,817
  
 
 
10,739
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
40,227
  
 
 
41,719
  
 
 
37,304
  
 
 
33,903
  
 
 
30,707
  

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Sales and marketing
  
 
19,375
  
 
 
19,409
  
 
 
17,710
  
 
 
19,762
  
 
 
19,443
  

 General and administrative
  
 
11,228
  
 
 
10,506
  
 
 
9,852
  
 
 
9,999
  
 
 
9,534
  

 Research and development
  
 
4,425
  
 
 
5,488
  
 
 
5,910
  
 
 
5,328
  
 
 
4,591
  

 Purchased research and development
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
373
  

 Restructuring charges
  
 
2,161
  
 
 
1,816
  
 
 
1,777
  
 
 
1,147
  
 
 
1,042
  

 Gain on Termination of Distribution Agreement
  
 
(735
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
83
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
597
  
 
 
7
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
36,537
  
 
 
37,704
  
 
 
35,355
  
 
 
36,833
  
 
 
34,990
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from operations
  
 
3,690
  
 
 
4,015
  
 
 
1,949
  
 
 
(2,930
) 
 
 
(4,283
) 

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 



 



 




 Interest income
  
 
11
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
530
  
 
 
1,299
  

 Interest expense
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(61
) 
 
 
(1
) 

 Investment impairment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(168
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign currency gain (loss)
  
 
51
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
280
  
 
 
(139
) 
 
 
292
  

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(53
) 
 
 
(9
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income
  
 
62
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
266
  
 
 
109
  
 
 
1,581
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income tax
  
 
3,752
  
 
 
4,025
  
 
 
2,215
  
 
 
(2,821
) 
 
 
(2,702
) 

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
 
1,609
  
 
 
(1,988
) 
 
 
617
  
 
 
493
  
 
 
232
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
2,143
  
 
$
6,013
  
 
$
1,598
  
 
$
(3,314
) 
 
$
(2,934
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per share of common stock:
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
$
0.14
  
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
(0.21
) 
 
$
(0.19
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
0.13
  
 
$
0.37
  
 
$
0.10
  
 
$
(0.21
) 
 
$
(0.19
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average shares outstanding:
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
 
15,458
  
 
 
15,627
  
 
 
15,687
  
 
 
15,572
  
 
 
15,398
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
 
15,989
  
 
 
16,114
  
 
 
15,916
  
 
 
15,572
  
 
 
15,398
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash dividends declared per common share
  
$
0.08
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  43 


Table of Contents
























 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:
  



  



  



  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
20,132
  
  
$
22,614
  
  
$
23,192
  
  
$
15,895
  
  
$
6,397
  

 Marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
808
  
  
 
5,359
  
  
 
16,198
  

 Current assets
  
 
39,687
  
  
 
42,911
  
  
 
39,550
  
  
 
37,116
  
  
 
41,766
  

 Total assets
  
 
59,687
  
  
 
63,274
  
  
 
56,906
  
  
 
54,399
  
  
 
60,857
  

 Revolving line of credit and current portion of long-term debt
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
262
  

 Current liabilities (excluding revolving line of credit and current portion of long-term debt)
  
 
6,539
  
  
 
10,389
  
  
 
6,548
  
  
 
6,933
  
  
 
9,783
  

 Long-term liabilities
  
 
1,060
  
  
 
529
  
  
 
2,145
  
  
 
1,718
  
  
 
2,226
  

 Total liabilities
  
 
7,599
  
  
 
10,918
  
  
 
8,693
  
  
 
8,651
  
  
 
12,271
  

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
52,088
  
  
 
52,356
  
  
 
48,213
  
  
 
45,748
  
  
 
48,586
  
  


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes contained
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The following discussion may contain predictions, estimates, and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and
uncertainties, including those discussed under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future performance suggested below. 
Overview  We are a
medical device company that develops, manufactures, and markets medical devices and implants for the treatment of peripheral vascular disease. Our principal product offerings are sold throughout the world, primarily in the United States, the
European Union and, to a lesser extent, Japan. We estimate that the annual worldwide market for all peripheral vascular devices approximates $3 billion, within which our core product lines address roughly $750 million. We have grown our business by
using a three-pronged strategy: competing in niche markets, expanding our worldwide direct sales force, and acquiring and developing complementary vascular devices. We have used acquisitions as a primary means of further accessing the larger
peripheral vascular device market, and we expect to continue to pursue this strategy in the future. Additionally, we have increased our efforts to expand our vascular device offerings through new product development efforts. In 2011, we introduced
two new products to the market – the second-generation UnBalloon modeling catheter and the Over-the-Wire Valvulotome. We currently manufacture most of our product lines in our Burlington, Massachusetts, headquarters. 
Our products are used by vascular surgeons who treat peripheral vascular disease through both open surgical methods and endovascular
techniques. In contrast to interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists, neither of whom are certified to perform open surgical procedures, vascular surgeons can perform both open surgical and minimally invasive endovascular
procedures, and are therefore uniquely positioned to provide a wider range of treatment options to patients.  Below is a
listing of our principal product lines and product categories:   


 
•
 
 Our Open Vascular product category includes our balloon catheters, carotid shunts, remote endarterectomy devices, valvulotomes, vascular grafts,
and vessel closure systems. We also report the results of our distribution of the Xenosure Biologic Patch in this category 
  44 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Our Endovascular and Other product category includes our aortic stent grafts, contrast injection device, laparoscopic cholecystectomy
devices, non-occlusive modeling catheter, and radiopaque marking tape. We also report the results of our distribution of the Endologix Powerlink System within this category. We divested our aortic stent grafts in June 2011 and terminated our
distribution of the Endologix products in August 2011, each of which was previously reported in this product category.  We evaluate the sales performance of our various product lines utilizing criteria that varies based upon the position of each product line in its expected life cycle. For established products, we
typically review unit sales and selling prices. For newer or faster growing products, we typically also focus upon new account generation and customer retention.  To assist us in evaluating our business strategies, we regularly monitor long-term technology trends in the peripheral vascular device market. Additionally, we consider the information obtained from
discussions with the medical community in connection with the demand for our products, including potential new product launches. We also use this information to help determine our competitive position in the peripheral vascular device market and our
manufacturing capacity requirements.  Our business opportunities include the following: 
 


 
•
 
 the long-term growth of our sales force in North America, Europe and Japan, sometimes in connection with terminations of certain distributor
relationships in order to expand our sales presence in new countries;   


 
•
 
 the addition of complementary products through acquisitions; 
 


 
•
 
 the updating of existing products and introduction of new products through research and development; and 
 


 
•
 
 the introduction of our products in new markets upon obtainment of regulatory approvals in these markets. 
We are currently pursuing each of these opportunities.  We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force. As of December 31, 2011 our sales force was comprised of 78 sales representatives in North America, the European Union and Japan. We also
sell our products in other countries through distributors. Our worldwide headquarters is located in Burlington, Massachusetts. Our international operations are headquartered in Sulzbach, Germany. We also have sales offices located in Tokyo, Japan,
Madrid, Spain, and Milan, Italy. In 2011, approximately 93% of our net sales were generated in markets in which we employ direct sales representatives.  In recent years we have experienced comparatively greater success in product markets characterized by low or limited competition, for example the market for valvulotome devices. In these markets, we
believe that we have been able to increase selling prices without compromising market share. There can be no assurance that we will not meet resistance to increased selling prices in the future. In contrast, we have experienced comparatively lesser
success in highly competitive product markets such as such as prosthetic polyester and ePTFE grafts, where we face stronger competition from larger companies with greater resources. While we believe that these challenging market dynamics can be
mitigated by our strong relationships with our vascular surgeon customers, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in highly competitive markets.  Because we believe that direct-to-hospital sales engender closer customer relationships, and allow for higher selling prices and gross margins, we periodically enter into transactions with our
distributors to transition their sales of our medical devices to our direct sales organization:   


 
•
 
 In December 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement with Cardiva, S.L. to terminate its distribution of our products in Spain effective as of
June 30, 2011. The agreement required us to pay approximately $1.2 million in exchange for this early termination, the purchase of their customer list 
  45 


Table of Contents


 
 
for our products, certain customer contracts, their provision of sales and marketing services, and $0.3 million of inventory. 
 


 
•
 
 In December 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement with Marcom Medical ApS to terminate its distribution of our products in Denmark effective as
of June 30, 2011. The agreement required us to pay approximately $0.2 million in exchange for this early termination, the purchase of their customer list for our products, certain customer contracts, their provision of sales and marketing
services, and minimal inventory.  We anticipate that the expansion of our direct sales organization to
Spain, and to a lesser extent, Denmark may result in increased sales and marketing expenses during 2012.  Our strategy for
growing our business includes the acquisition of complementary product lines and companies and occasionally the discontinuance or divestiture of products or activities that are no longer complementary: 
 


 
•
 
 In June 2010, we divested our OptiLock Implantable Port to Minvasive Ltd. for $0.2 million. 
 


 
•
 
 In November 2010, we acquired our LifeSpan ePTFE Vascular Graft from Angiotech Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for $2.8 million and related assets from Edwards
LifeSciences for $1.2 million.   


 
•
 
 In June 2011, we divested our TAArget and UniFit stent grafts to Duke Vascular, Inc. for $0.6 million. In addition, Duke Vascular, Inc. assumed our
future obligations for the associated UNITE and ENTRUST clinical trials.   


 
•
 
 In August 2011, we terminated our distribution of Endologix’s aortic stent graft products in Europe in exchange for $1.3 million.
 In addition to relying upon acquisitions to grow our business, we also rely on our product development
efforts to bring differentiated technology and next-generation products to market. These efforts have led to the following recent product launches:   


 
•
 
 In June 2010, we launched the AnastoClip GC Vessel Closure System. 
 


 
•
 
 In November 2011, we launched the second-generation of The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter. 
 


 
•
 
 In December 2011, we launched the Over-The-Wire LeMaitre Valvulotome. 
In addition to our sales growth strategies, we have also executed several operational initiatives designed to consolidate and streamline
manufacturing within our Burlington, MA facilities. We expect that these plant consolidations will yield improved control over our production capacity and our direct labor force as well as reduce redundant costs over the long-term. Our most recent
manufacturing transitions included:   


 
•
 
 In October 2010, we adopted a reorganization plan that was designed to eliminate redundant costs resulting from our 2007 acquisition of Biomateriali
and to improve efficiencies in manufacturing operations. We have completed the transition of AlboGraft vascular graft manufacturing to our existing corporate headquarters in Burlington, Massachusetts. 
 


 
•
 
 In May 2011, we adopted a reorganization plan that was designed to eliminate redundant costs resulting from our 2010 acquisition of the LifeSpan
vascular graft and to improve efficiencies in manufacturing operations. We have largely completed this transition to our existing corporate headquarters in Burlington, Massachusetts. 
Our execution of these business opportunities may affect the comparability of our financial results from period to period and may cause
substantial fluctuations from period to period, both due to restructuring and similar non-recurring charges, as well as longer term impacts to revenues and operating expenditures. For example, we recognized $4.0 million of revenue on our stent
graft products during the year ended December 31, 2011, and also incurred sales, marketing, and research and development expenditures in connection with these product lines. We expect that we will no longer recognize any further revenue or
expenses from those product 
  46 


Table of Contents

lines, as we have exited the stent graft market. In connection with that exit, we realized a gain of approximately $0.7 million as a result of the Endologix transaction. As another example,
we recognized $1.1 million and $1.8 million of restructuring expenses in 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to the Biomateriali plant closure and relocation to Burlington, MA. 
Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, affect our financial results.
For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 36% of our sales were from outside the Americas. We expect that foreign currencies will continue to represent a similarly significant percentage of our sales in the future. Selling, marketing,
and administrative costs related to these sales are largely denominated in the same respective currency, thereby partially mitigating our transaction risk exposure. We therefore believe that the risk of a significant impact on our operating income
from foreign currency fluctuations is moderated. However, most of our foreign sales are denominated in local currency, and if there is an increase in the rate at which a foreign currency is exchanged for U.S. dollars, it will require more of the
foreign currency to equal a specified amount of U.S. dollars than before the rate increase. In such cases we will receive less in U.S. dollars than we did before the rate increase went into effect. The following table indicates the impact of foreign
currency fluctuations and changes to our business activities for each of our quarters during the three most recently completed fiscal years:  




















































(amounts in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
Q4
 
 
Q3
 
 
Q2
 
 
Q1
 
 
Q4
 
 
Q3
 
 
Q2
 
 
Q1
 
 
Q4
 
 
Q3
 
 
Q2
 
 
Q1
 

 Total net sales
 
 
13,411
  
 
 
14,564
  
 
 
15,112
  
 
 
14,598
  
 
 
14,431
  
 
 
13,656
  
 
 
14,158
  
 
 
13,815
  
 
 
13,584
  
 
 
13,346
  
 
 
12,630
  
 
 
11,348
  

 Impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations(1)
 
 
15
  
 
 
431
  
 
 
669
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
(420
) 
 
 
(418
) 
 
 
(336
) 
 
 
314
  
 
 
613
  
 
 
(215
) 
 
 
(699
) 
 
 
(622
) 

 Net impact of acquisitions and distributed sales, excluding currency exchange rate fluctuations(2)
 
 
260
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
328
  
 
 
156
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
397
  
 
 
333
  
 
 
234
  
 
 
101
  

 Net impact of discontinued products, excluding currency rate fluctuations(3)
 
 
(1,904
) 
 
 
(370
) 
 
 
(76
) 
 
 
(45
) 
 
 
(100
) 
 
 
(105
) 
 
 
(65
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  


(1)
Represents the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates compared to the corresponding quarter of the prior year based on the weighted average exchange rate for
each quarter.   


(2)
Represents the impact of new sales of acquired products or businesses and newly distributed sales of other manufacturers’ during the current year period, measured
for 12 months following the date of the event or transaction.   


(3)
Represents the impact of sales related to discontinued and divested products, and discontinued distributed sales of other manufacturers’ products, during the
comparable prior period, measured for 12 months following the date of the event or transaction.  Upon our
divestiture of the stent graft product lines, we reorganized our product categories from “Vascular”, “Endovascular”, and “General Surgery” to “Open Vascular” and “Endovascular and Other” as we
re-focused our portfolio and sales channel on open vascular products. Our consolidated financial statements and the related management discussion and analysis for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 have been reclassified to
reflect this change.  Net Sales and Expense Components  The following is a description of the primary components of our net sales and expenses:  Net sales. We derive our net sales from the sale of our products, less discounts and returns. Net sales includes the shipping and handling fees paid for by our customers. Most of our sales
are generated by our direct sales force and are shipped and billed to hospitals or clinics throughout the world. In countries where we do not have a direct sales force, sales are primarily generated by shipments to distributors who, in turn, sell to
hospitals and clinics. In those cases where our products are held on consignment at a hospital or clinic, we generate sales at the time the product is used in surgery rather than at shipment. 
  47 


Table of Contents
Cost of sales. We manufacture nearly all of the products that we sell. Our
cost of sales consists primarily of manufacturing personnel, raw materials and components, depreciation of property and equipment, and other allocated manufacturing overhead, as well as freight expense we pay to ship products to customers.
 Sales and marketing. Our sales and marketing expense consists primarily of salaries, commissions, stock based
compensation, travel and entertainment, attendance at medical society meetings, training programs, advertising and product promotions, direct mail, and other marketing costs.  General and administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of executive, finance and human resource expense, stock based compensation, legal and accounting fees,
information technology expense, intangible amortization expense, and insurance expense.  Research and
development. Research and development expense includes costs associated with the design, development, testing, enhancement, and regulatory approval of our products, principally salaries, laboratory testing, and supply costs. It also includes
costs associated with design and execution of clinical studies, regulatory submissions and costs to register, maintain, and defend our intellectual property, and royalty payments associated with licensed and acquired intellectual property.
 Restructuring. Restructuring expense includes costs directly associated with distribution agreement termination
expenses, severance and retention costs for terminated employees, factory relocation costs, and other expenses associated with restructuring our operations.  Other income (expense). Other income (expense) primarily includes interest income and expense, investment impairment charges, foreign currency gains (losses), and other miscellaneous gains
(losses).  Income tax expense. We are subject to federal and state income taxes for earnings generated in the
United States, which include operating losses in certain foreign jurisdictions for certain years depending on tax elections made, and foreign taxes on earnings of our wholly-owned German, French, Italian, Spanish, and Japanese subsidiaries. Our
consolidated tax expense is affected by the mix of our taxable income (loss) in the United States, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, and Japan, permanent items, discrete items, unrecognized tax benefits, and amortization of goodwill for U.S tax
reporting purposes.  Results of Operations  Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2011, to the year ended December 31, 2010  The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, our results of operations and the change between the specified periods expressed as a percent increase or decrease: 
 




















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
$ Change
 
 
Percentchange
 

 
  
($ in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
57,685
  
  
$
56,060
  
  
$
1,625
  
 
 
3
% 

 Net sales by product category:
  



  



  



 




 Open Vascular
  
$
44,408
  
  
$
40,022
  
  
$
4,386
  
 
 
11
% 

 Endovascular and Other
  
 
13,277
  
  
 
16,038
  
  
 
(2,761
) 
 
 
(17
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
57,685
  
  
$
56,060
  
  
$
1,625
  
 
 
3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net sales by geography:
  



  



  



 




 Americas
  
$
36,958
  
  
$
34,575
  
  
$
2,383
  
 
 
7
% 

 International
  
 
20,727
  
  
 
21,485
  
  
 
(758
) 
 
 
(4
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
57,685
  
  
$
56,060
  
  
$
1,625
  
 
 
3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  48 


Table of Contents
Net sales. Net sales increased 3% to $57.7 million in 2011 from $56.1 million
in 2010. Sales in our Open Vascular product category grew 11%, while sales in our Endovascular and Other product category decreased by 17% from the previous year. Acquisitions, primarily the LifeSpan vascular graft, increased sales 2% compared to
2010. Divestitures, primarily of the TAArget and UniFit stent graft product lines as well as the termination of the Endologix aortic stent graft distribution agreement, decreased sales 4% from the prior year. Changes in foreign currency exchange
rates added 2% to year over year sales growth.  Sales increases in 2011 were largely driven by higher average selling prices
across nearly all product lines, as well as stronger sales of our Open Vascular products, primarily biologic patches of $0.9 million, catheters of $0.6 million and vessel closure systems of $0.5 million, in addition to full-year LifeSpan vascular
graft sales and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These gains were partially offset by a $2.8 million decrease in our Endovascular and Other product category, primarily due to the decline of, and subsequent exit from, stent
grafts, as well as unit decreases in a number of open vascular products.  Direct-to-hospital net sales were 93% in 2011 and
2010.  Net sales by geography. Net sales in the Americas increased $2.4 million to $37.0 million in 2011. The
increase was largely the result of higher average selling prices across nearly all product lines as well as increased sales of biologic patches and vessel closure systems. International net sales decreased to $20.7 million in 2011. The decrease was
primarily driven by the divestitures of the TAArget and UniFit stent graft product lines and the termination of the Endologix aortic stent graft distribution agreement. Sales of these products decreased to $4.0 million in 2011 compared to $6.8
million in 2010. The decrease in international sales was partially offset by full-year LifeSpan sales of $1.2 million and $1.1 million of favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
International direct-to-hospital net sales were 82% in 2011 and 2010. 
 




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
$ Change
 
 
Percentchange
 

 
  
($ in thousands)
 

 Gross profit
  
$
40,227
  
 
$
41,719
  
 
$
(1,492
) 
 
 
(4
%) 

 Gross margin
  
 
69.7
% 
 
 
74.4
% 
 
 
*
  
 
 
(4.7
%) 
  


*
Not applicable  Gross
profit. Gross profit decreased 4% to $40.2 million in 2011 from $41.7 million in 2010, while our gross margin decreased 4.7% to 69.7%. The gross margin decrease was the result of manufacturing inefficiencies in Burlington, Massachusetts
largely related to the AlboGraft product line and its transfer from Italy to the United States, as well as a $0.2 million charge related to a voluntary recall of two AlboGraft production lots in the fourth quarter of 2011. The gross margin decrease
was partially offset by higher average selling prices across nearly all product lines and improved product mix due to the termination of the Endologix distribution agreement. 
 




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
$ change
 
 
Percentchange
 
 
2011 as a %of Revenue
 
 
2010 as a %of Revenue
 

 
  
($ in thousands)
 

 Sales and marketing
  
$
19,375
  
 
$
19,409
  
  
$
(34
) 
 
 
0
% 
 
 
34
% 
 
 
35
% 

 General and administrative
  
 
11,228
  
 
 
10,506
  
  
 
722
  
 
 
7
% 
 
 
19
% 
 
 
19
% 

 Research and development
  
 
4,425
  
 
 
5,488
  
  
 
(1,063
) 
 
 
(19
%) 
 
 
8
% 
 
 
10
% 

 Restructuring charges
  
 
2,161
  
 
 
1,816
  
  
 
345
  
 
 
19
% 
 
 
4
% 
 
 
3
% 

 Gain on termination of distribution agreement
  
 
(735
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(735
) 
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  

 Impairment charge
  
 
83
  
 
 
485
  
  
 
(402
) 
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
36,537
  
 
$
37,704
  
  
$
(1,167
) 
 
 
(3
%) 
 
 
63
% 
 
 
67
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
Not a meaningful percentage. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses were $19.4 million in 2011,
flat versus 2010. As a percentage of net sales, sales and marketing expenses were 34% in 2011, down 1% from the prior year. Compared to 2010, sales and marketing expenses were negatively affected by increases in foreign currency exchange rates of
$0.5 million, transition services related to business development activities of $0.3 million, and recruiting expenses of $0.2 million, which were offset by a decrease in sales personnel compensation of $1.0 million. At December 31, 2011, we
employed 78 sales representatives worldwide, compared to 67 in the prior year period. We plan to increase the size of our sales force in 2012, though to a lesser extent than 2011, and we expect that selling and marketing expenses will increase
commensurately.  General and administrative. General and administrative expense increased 7% to $11.2 million in
2011 from $10.5 million in 2010. The increase was largely the result of higher administrative costs associated with our French and Spanish subsidiaries of $0.5 million, higher amortization costs of $0.3 million related to the LifeSpan Vascular Graft
acquisition and our Spanish distributor buy-out, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.2 million, partially offset by a reduction in administrative costs associated with our closure of the Biomateriali subsidiary of $0.2 million. As a
percentage of net sales, general and administrative expenses were 19% in both 2011 and 2010. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase primarily related our direct sales efforts in Spain for all of 2012 versus six months in 2011.
 Research and development. Research and development expenses decreased 19% to $4.4 million in 2011 from $5.5
million in 2010. As a percentage of net sales, research and development expenses decreased to 8% in 2011 from 10% in 2010. The decrease was largely driven by a reduction in regulatory and clinical affairs costs of $0.8 million in 2011, related to
the suspension of our UNITE and ENTRUST trials in October 2010. In addition, product development costs decreased $0.4 million in 2011 as we reduced animal testing associated with new products approvals. On June 30, 2011, Duke Vascular, Inc.
assumed all future obligations of the UNITE and ENTRUST trials as part of our stent graft divestiture agreement. Process engineering expenses increased by $0.2 million in 2011 as we increased staffing levels. We expect research and development costs
to increase marginally in 2012 as we continue to invest in new product development efforts.  Restructuring.
Restructuring charges were $2.2 million in 2011 compared to $1.8 million in 2010. In 2010, we commenced the closure of our Biomateriali manufacturing facility in Brindisi, Italy and the related transition of production to our existing
corporate headquarters in Burlington, Massachusetts. In 2011, we incurred an additional $1.1 million in restructuring charges related to this project. These charges consisted of approximately $0.3 million for the transfer of manufacturing equipment,
$0.1 million of charges associated with repayment of a development grant and loan from the Italian government, and $0.7 million related to deferred rent charges upon exiting the Biomateriali facility in March 2011. In March 2012, we completed the
Biomateriali liquidation and dissolution process.  In 2010, we incurred a $1.8 million restructuring charge related to the
closure of our Biomateriali manufacturing facility in Brindisi, Italy, and the related transition of production to our existing corporate headquarters in Burlington, Massachusetts. The restructuring charge consisted of $1.4 million of
employee-related severance charges, $0.3 million of charges associated with repayment of a development grant and loan from the Italian government, and $0.1 million of charges related to the abandonment of fixed assets and legal fees. 
In May 2011, we adopted a reorganization plan (the LifeSpan Plan) that was designed to eliminate redundant costs resulting from our 2010
acquisition of the LifeSpan vascular graft and to improve efficiencies in our manufacturing operations. We have transitioned the production of our LifeSpan vascular graft from Laguna Hills, California to our existing corporate headquarters in
Burlington, Massachusetts. The LifeSpan Plan resulted in the termination of 7 employees at the Laguna Hills facility, relocation of manufacturing equipment, and the hiring of approximately 4 employees to staff the required functions in Burlington.
We incurred approximately $0.1 million related to the closure of the Laguna Hills facility and the related relocation of the manufacturing equipment during the year ended December 31, 2011. We incurred approximately $33,000 of severance charges
related to this project during year ended December 31, 2011. 
  50 


Table of Contents
On June 30, 2011, we terminated our relationship with our Spanish distributor resulting
in a contract termination charge of $0.5 million which we recorded as restructuring charges. On June 30, 2011, we terminated our relationship with our Danish distributor resulting in a contract termination charge of $0.1 million which we
recorded as restructuring charges.  In July 2011, we adopted a reorganization plan of our European administrative and stent
graft sales personnel as a result of our exit from the stent graft business. We terminated 6 employees and recorded severance charges of $0.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. The final severance payments were made in March 2012.
 In 2010 and 2011, we initiated a series of strategic initiatives including the transition of AlboGraft manufacturing from
Italy to Burlington, the transition of LifeSpan manufacturing from California to Burlington, the sale of our TAArget and Unifit assets, the termination of our Endologix distribution agreement in Europe, and the termination of our distributors in
Spain and Denmark. These initiatives are largely complete, and we do not expect them to incur additional restructuring or impairment charges in 2012.  Gain on termination of distribution agreement. In July 2011, we terminated our Endologix distribution agreement for $1.3 million, and recognized a gain of $0.7 million as a result of the
transaction.  Impairment charges. We incurred $0.1 million of impairment charges in 2011 related to patents
deemed to have no value based on future expected economic benefits. We incurred $0.5 million of impairment charges in 2010 of which $0.4 million was due to the write-down of certain technology, customer lists, and fixed assets related to our aortic
stent graft product line. Additionally, we incurred a $0.1 million impairment charge associated with a Biomateriali private label customer relationship, which we subsequently terminated. 
Other income (expense). Foreign exchange gains for 2011 were $51,000 compared to foreign exchange losses for 2010 of
$30,000 in 2010. Foreign exchange gains were due to the comparative weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the euro during the year. Net interest income and other income (expense) was comparatively flat in 2011 versus 2010. 
Income tax expense. We recorded a provision for taxes of $1.6 million on pre-tax income of $3.8 million in 2011
compared to a tax benefit of $2.0 million on pre-tax income of $4.0 million in 2010. The 2011 provision was comprised of Federal tax in the United States of $1.1 million, taxes in certain foreign subsidiaries that are profitable of $0.4 million and
state taxes of $0.1 million. The 2010 benefit was primarily due to the release of our U.S. deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $3.3 million, and was partially offset by U.S. deferred provision of $0.9 million, taxes in certain foreign
subsidiaries that are profitable of $0.2 million, Federal tax in the United States of $0.1 million, and state taxes of $0.1 million. The valuation allowance reversal was to the result of achieving three year cumulative profitability which occurred
in the fourth quarter of 2010 as well as our expectation of future taxable income in the United States. Our effective tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory tax rate in 2011 principally due to permanent items, true-up of historical deferred
tax assets, a valuation allowance recorded against foreign deferred tax assets and state credits, change in our reserve for uncertain tax positions, and state taxes. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of the
resolution of any particular tax matter, we believe that our tax reserves reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies. 
We have assessed the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets and concluded that as of December 31, 2011, we
will continue to carry a valuation allowance against $4.4 million of deferred tax assets, principally foreign net operating loss carry-forwards, which based on the weight of available evidence, we believe it is more likely than not that such assets
will not be realized.  We expect that our effective tax rate will decrease slightly in 2012 due to a reduction to foreign
taxes and we will be able to utilize Federal research and development tax credits to reduce our regular tax to the alternative minimum tax rate. 
  51 


Table of Contents
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2010, to the year ended
December 31, 2009  The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, our results of operations and the
change between the specified periods expressed as a percent increase or decrease:   




















 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
$ Change
 
 
Percentchange
 

 
  
($ in thousands)
 

 Net sales
  
$
56,060
  
  
$
50,908
  
  
$
5,152
  
 
 
10
% 

 Net sales by product category:
  



  



  



 




 Open Vascular
  
$
40,022
  
  
$
34,265
  
  
$
5,757
  
 
 
17
% 

 Endovascular and Other
  
 
16,038
  
  
 
16,643
  
  
 
(605
) 
 
 
(4
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
56,060
  
  
$
50,908
  
  
$
5,152
  
 
 
10
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net sales by geography:
  



  



  



 




 Americas
  
$
34,575
  
  
$
29,420
  
  
$
5,155
  
 
 
18
% 

 International
  
 
21,485
  
  
 
21,488
  
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
56,060
  
  
$
50,908
  
  
$
5,152
  
 
 
10
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
Not a meaningful percentage. 
Net sales. Net sales increased 10% to $56.1 million in 2010 from $50.9 million in 2009. Sales in our Open Vascular product
category grew 17%, while sales in our Endovascular and Other product category decreased by 4% from the previous year. Foreign currency exchange rates subtracted 2% from year over year sales growth. Sales increases in 2010 were largely driven by
higher average selling prices across nearly all product lines, as well as stronger sales of our Open Vascular products which included increased sales of valvulotomes of $1.7 million, biologic patches of $1.1 million, and carotid shunts of $0.8
million. These gains were partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in our Endovascular and Other product category, primarily due to decreased TAArget and UniFit stent graft sales of $0.7 million. Sales were unfavorably impacted by the effect of
currency exchange rate fluctuations by $0.9 million.  TAArget and UniFit stent graft sales declined by 21% in 2010 compared to
the prior year. The results were due mainly to the retirement of our largest stent graft customer in the fourth quarter of 2009, a reduction in sales to a distributor in Greece, and strong competitor product offerings. We suspended our clinical
trials and ceased development efforts related to these products in November 2010.  Direct-to-hospital net sales were 93% in
2010, up from 92% in 2009. The increase was primarily due to the conversion of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft from a distribution model to a direct sales model in March 2009, resulting in an additional three months of direct sales in 2010. 
Net sales by geography. Net sales in the Americas increased $5.2 million to $34.6 million in 2010. The increase was mainly
the result of higher average selling prices, increased biologic patch sales of $1.1 million, and strong results across nearly all of our Vascular product offerings. International net sales of $21.5 million were flat in 2010. International sales were
favorably impacted by a $1.6 million increase in Vascular products sales, led by vascular graft and valvulotome sales, as well as a $0.4 million increase in Powerlink System sales. International sales were unfavorably impacted by the effect of
currency exchange rate fluctuations of $0.9 million and a $0.7 million decrease in sales of our own aortic stent grafts and a $0.3 million decrease in sales to the one private label customer of our Biomateriali subsidiary. In January 2011, we
terminated our relationship with this customer, who purchased $0.1 million of dacron-related products in 2010. 
  52 


Table of Contents
International direct-to-hospital net sales were 82% in 2010, down from 83% in 2009.
  




















 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
$ Change
 
  
Percentchange
 

 
  
($ in thousands)
 

 Gross profit
  
$
41,719
  
 
$
37,304
  
 
$
4,415
  
  
 
12
% 

 Gross margin
  
 
74.4
% 
 
 
73.3
% 
 
 
*
  
  
 
1.1
% 
  


*
Not applicable  Gross
profit. Gross profit increased 12% to $41.7 million in 2010 from $37.3 million in 2009, while our gross margin increased 1.1% to 74.4%. The gross margin increase was largely the result of improved manufacturing efficiencies in our Burlington
facility, higher average selling prices across nearly all product lines, particularly in the United States, and favorable geographic sales mix versus the prior year. The gross margin increase was partially offset by an increase in excess and
obsolete inventory write-downs of $0.5 million, manufacturing start-up costs associated with the transfer of AlboGraft Vascular Graft manufacturing to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters, and sales growth in our comparatively lower margin
polyester grafts and distributed products.   




























 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
$ change
 
 
Percentchange
 
 
2010 as a %of Revenue
 
 
2009 as a %of Revenue
 

 
  
($ in thousands)
 

 Sales and marketing
  
$
19,409
  
  
$
17,710
  
  
$
1,699
  
 
 
10
% 
 
 
35
% 
 
 
35
% 

 General and administrative
  
 
10,506
  
  
 
9,852
  
  
 
654
  
 
 
7
% 
 
 
19
% 
 
 
19
% 

 Research and development
  
 
5,488
  
  
 
5,910
  
  
 
(422
) 
 
 
(7
%) 
 
 
10
% 
 
 
12
% 

 Restructuring charges
  
 
1,816
  
  
 
1,777
  
  
 
39
  
 
 
2
% 
 
 
3
% 
 
 
3
% 

 Impairment charge
  
 
485
  
  
 
106
  
  
 
379
  
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
37,704
  
  
$
35,355
  
  
$
2,349
  
 
 
7
% 
 
 
67
% 
 
 
69
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
Not a meaningful percentage. 
Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expense increased 10% to $19.4 million in 2010, from $17.7 million in 2009.
Selling expenses increased $1.7 million to $16.3 million while marketing expenses remained relatively flat. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced sales and marketing expense by $0.3 million compared to the prior year. Selling expense
increases were largely driven by higher commission costs of $1.5 million and higher base compensation costs of $0.5 million, partly due to additional sales representatives. As a percentage of net sales, sales and marketing expenses were 35% in 2010,
comparable to the prior year. At the end of 2010, we employed 67 sales representatives worldwide, as compared to 61 at the end of 2009.  General and administrative. General and administrative expense increased 7% to $10.5 million in 2010 from $9.9 million in 2009. The increase was largely the result of higher personnel costs
of $0.9 million, and was partially offset by a decrease in professional services of $0.2 million and changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.1 million. As a percentage of net sales, general and administrative expenses were 19% in both 2010
and 2009.  Research and development. Research and development expenses decreased 7% to $5.5 million in 2010 from
$5.9 million in 2009. As a percentage of net sales, research and development expense decreased to 10% in 2010 from 12% in 2009. The decrease was driven primarily by a reduction of regulatory and clinical affairs costs of $0.4 million to $2.0 million
in 2010, largely due to reduced animal testing as well as a reduction in the use of outside services following the suspension of enrollment of our UNITE and ENRUST trials in October 2010. Expenses related to product development and royalties
remained consistent between 2010 and 2009. 
  53 


Table of Contents
Restructuring. Restructuring charges were $1.8 million in 2010 and 2009. In
2010, we incurred a $1.8 million restructuring charge related to the closure of our Biomateriali manufacturing facility in Brindisi, Italy, and the related transition of production to our existing corporate headquarters in Burlington, Massachusetts.
The restructuring charge consisted of $1.4 million of employee-related severance charges, $0.3 million of charges associated with repayment of a development grant and loan from the Italian government, and $0.1 million of charges related to the
abandonment of fixed assets and legal fees.  In 2009, we incurred a $1.8 million restructuring charge related to the
March 27, 2009 termination of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft distribution agreement with Edwards Lifesciences. The transaction included the payment of $3.5 million in exchange for the termination of the distribution agreement, as well as the
acquisition of detailed customer information, transition services, and remaining product inventory.  Impairment
charges. We incurred $0.5 million of impairment charges in 2010 of which $0.4 million was due to the write-down of certain technology, customer lists, and fixed assets related to our aortic stent graft product line. As of December 31,
2010, we determined that impairment indicators existed as a result of our decision to suspend enrollment into our UNITE and ENTRUST clinical trials and cease product development efforts in October 2010. The residual fair value of the TAArget and
UniFit intangible assets was $0.2 million as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, we incurred a $0.1 million impairment charge associated with a Biomateriali private label customer relationship, which we subsequently terminated. We incurred $0.1
million of impairment charges in 2009 related to patents deemed to have no value based on future expected economic benefits. 
Other income (expense). Foreign exchange losses for 2010 were $30,000 compared to foreign exchange gains of $0.3 million in
2009. Foreign exchange gains were due to the comparative strengthening of the dollar versus the euro during the year. Net interest income and other income (expense) was relatively flat between 2010 and 2009. 
Income tax expense. We recorded a tax benefit of $2.0 million in 2010 compared to a tax expense of $0.6 million in
2009, on pre-tax income of $4.0 million in 2010 and $2.2 million in 2009. The 2010 benefit was primarily due to the release of our U.S. deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $3.3 million, and was partially offset by U.S. deferred provision of
$0.9 million, taxes in certain foreign subsidiaries that are profitable of $0.2 million, federal tax in the United States of $0.1 million, and state taxes of $0.1 million. The valuation allowance reversal was to the result of achieving three year
cumulative profitability which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2010 as well as our expectation of future taxable income in the U.S. The 2009 provision was comprised of taxes on profits on certain of our foreign subsidiaries that are
profitable, deferred tax liabilities related to the amortization of goodwill for U.S. tax purposes which could not be used to reduce existing deferred tax assets, and the alternative minimum tax. Our effective tax rate differed from the U.S.
statutory tax rate in 2010 principally due to the reversal of the valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets and utilization of U.S net operating loss carryforwards. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of the
resolution of any particular tax matter, we believe that our tax reserves reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies.  Liquidity
and Capital Resources  At December 31, 2011, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $20.1 million
as compared to $22.6 million at December 31, 2010. Our cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase and consist of money market funds, and are stated at cost, which
approximates fair value. We did not hold any marketable securities nor any mortgage asset-backed or auction-rate securities in our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2011. In the event of a temporary decline in market value, we have the
intent and ability to hold our investments for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery of the principal amounts invested. We continually monitor the asset allocation of our holdings in an attempt to mitigate our credit and interest rate
exposures, and we intend to continue to closely monitor developments in the credit markets and make appropriate changes to our investment policy as necessary. 
  54 


Table of Contents
Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements 
We require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures, fund acquisitions, and pay our long-term liabilities. Since our
inception, we have funded our operations through private and public placements of equity securities, short-term borrowings, and funds generated from our operations.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized operating income of $3.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized operating income of $4.0 million. Although it is our
intention to generate an operating profit on an ongoing basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and distributor terminations, there can be no assurance that we will generate an operating profit in the future due to our continued
investment in growing our business. We expect to fund any increased costs and expenditures from our existing cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, though our future capital requirements depend on numerous factors. These factors
include, but are not limited to, the following:   


 
•
 
 the revenues generated by sales of our products;   


 
•
 
 payments associated with potential future quarterly cash dividends to our common stockholders; 
 


 
•
 
 payments associated with our stock repurchase plan;   


 
•
 
 payments associated with U.S income taxes;   


 
•
 
 the costs associated with expanding our manufacturing, marketing, sales, and distribution efforts; 
 


 
•
 
 the rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; 
 


 
•
 
 the costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances of our existing and future products; 
 


 
•
 
 the effects of competing technological and market developments; and 
 


 
•
 
 the number, timing, and nature of acquisitions and other strategic transactions 
Our cash balances may decrease as we continue to use cash to fund our operations, make acquisitions, make purchases under our share
repurchase program, make payments under our quarterly dividend program, and make deferred payments related to prior acquisitions. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, investments and the interest we earn on these balances will be sufficient
to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. If these sources of cash are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements beyond the next twelve months, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or
borrow from a financial institution. The sale of additional equity and debt securities may result in dilution to our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, such securities could have rights senior to
those of our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. We may require additional capital beyond our currently forecasted amounts. Any such required additional capital may not be available on reasonable terms, if at
all.  Italian loan and grant  As part of the purchase of Biomateriali S.r.l, we assumed a loan from the Italian government under a program that provides funding to certain businesses in Italy through a combination of grants and loans
if certain requirements are met. The loan was stated to be payable in ten annual payments through 2018 of principal and interest at an interest rate of 0.74%. The present value of the loan was recorded as of the date the proceeds were received using
our incremental borrowing rate. Interest was being imputed on the loan and the amortization was recorded as interest expense. The Italian government informed us the loan and grant will become due in full as a result of the Biomateriali S.r.l plant
closure. As a result, in December 2011, we incurred approximately $0.1 million of restructuring charges related to additional interest and penalties charges, and we made the final payment to the Italian government of $0.5 million in December 2011.
In 2010, we had previously recorded approximately $0.3 million of restructuring charges related to the expected repayment of the grants, the imputed interest on the outstanding loan balance, and certain additional interest and penalties. 
  55 


Table of Contents
Cash Flows 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 
 
NetChange
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
20,132
  
 
$
22,614
  
 
$
(2,482
) 

 Cash flows provided by (used in):
  



 



 




 Operating activities
  
$
3,170
  
 
$
7,052
  
 
$
(3,882
) 

 Investing activities
  
 
(1,822
) 
 
 
(5,235
) 
 
 
3,413
  

 Financing activities
  
 
(3,800
) 
 
 
(2,335
) 
 
 
(1,465
) 
 Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.2 million in 2011
and consisted of $2.1 million in net income, adjusted for non-cash items of $5.3 million (including depreciation and amortization of $2.0 million, provision for deferred income taxes of $1.1 million, stock-based compensation of $1.0 million,
provision for inventory write-offs of $1.0 million, and noncash restructuring charges of $0.7 million, all of which were partially offset by a gain on the termination of the Endologix distribution agreement of $0.7 million), and net cash used by
changes in working capital of $4.2 million. The net cash used by changes in working capital was principally the result of a decrease in accounts payables as well as an increase in accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets.
 Net cash provided by operating activities was $7.1 million in 2010 and consisted of $6.0 million in net income, adjusted for
non-cash items of $1.5 million (including depreciation and amortization of $1.4 million, stock-based compensation of $1.0 million, provision for inventory write-offs of $0.8 million, impairment charges of $0.5 million and $0.1 million in accounts
receivable loss provisions and was partially offset by a deferred income tax benefit of $2.4 million) and net cash used by changes in working capital of $0.4 million. The net cash used by changes in working capital was principally the result of an
increase of accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets while partially offset by increased accounts payable. 
Investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.8 million in 2011. This was due to the purchase of new
property and equipment of $2.0 million, as a result of the transfer of manufacturing from Brindisi, Italy and Laguna Hills, California to Burlington, Massachusetts and $1.2 million of acquisition related payments, primarily related to the LifeSpan
Vascular Graft acquisition and the Spanish and Danish distributor buyouts. These cash uses were partially offset by a $1.3 million distribution termination payment from Endologix. 
Net cash used in investing activities was $5.2 million in 2010. This was primarily due to payments related to our acquisition of the
LifeSpan Vascular ePTFE Graft of $3.5 million and purchases of property and equipment of $2.5 million, and was partially offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities of $0.8 million. 
Financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $3.8 million in 2011. This was primarily due to the
purchase of $1.9 million of treasury stock under our stock repurchase plan, payment of a common stock dividends of $1.2 million, and the purchase of $0.3 million of treasury stock to cover minimum withholding taxes of restricted stock unit vestings
and was partially offset by $0.1 million received from the exercise of stock options. As of December 31, 2011, we were able to purchase up to an additional $5.3 million of common stock under our stock repurchase plan through December 31,
2013.  Net cash used in financing activities was $2.3 million in 2010. This was primarily due to the purchase of $2.2 million
of treasury stock under our stock repurchase plan and the purchase of $0.3 million of treasury stock to cover minimum withholding taxes of restricted stock unit vestings and was partially offset by $0.1 million received from the exercise of stock
options.  Dividends. On February 24, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a policy for the payment of
quarterly cash dividends on our common stock of $0.02 per share. Future declarations of quarterly dividends and the 
  56 


Table of Contents

establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The dividend activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 is as
follows:   










 Record Date
  
 Payment Date
  
 Per Share Amount
  
 Dividend Payment

 
  
 
  
 
  
(in thousands)

 March 22, 2011
  
April 5, 2011
  
$ 0.02
  
$ 309

 May 20, 2011
  
June 6, 2011
  
$ 0.02
  
$ 310

 August 19, 2011
  
September 6, 2011
  
$ 0.02
  
$ 310

 November 23, 2011
  
December 6, 2011
  
$ 0.02
  
$ 308
 On February 23, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock
of $0.025 per share payable on April 3, 2012, to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 20, 2012, which will total approximately $0.4 million.  Contractual obligations. Our principal contractual obligations consist of operating leases and inventory purchase commitments. The following table summarizes our commitments to settle
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011:   
























 Contractual obligations
  
Total
 
  
Lessthan1 year
 
  
1-3years
 
  
3-5years
 
  
Morethan5 years
 

  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
  
  

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Operating leases
  
$
4,375
  
  
$
1,083
  
  
$
1,588
  
  
$
1,242
  
  
$
462
  

 Purchase commitments for inventory
  
 
6,279
  
  
 
2,209
  
  
 
1,931
  
  
 
2,139
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total contractual obligations
  
$
10,654
  
  
$
3,292
  
  
$
3,519
  
  
$
3,381
  
  
$
462
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The commitments under our operating leases consist primarily of lease payments for our Burlington,
Massachusetts, corporate headquarters and manufacturing facility, expiring in 2017; our Sulzbach, Germany office, expiring in 2016; our Tokyo, Japan office, expiring in 2013; and our Milan, Italy office, expiring in 2016. They also include
automobile and equipment leases.  The purchase commitments for inventory are to be used in operations over the normal course
of business and do not represent excess commitments or loss contracts.  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
We have adopted various accounting policies to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP). Our most significant accounting policies are described in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The preparation of our consolidated financial
statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our estimates and assumptions, including those related to bad debts,
inventories, intangible assets, sales returns and discounts, and income taxes are reviewed on an ongoing basis and updated as appropriate. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
Certain of our more critical accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by management in selecting the
appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. These judgments are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, and observance of
trends in the industry, as appropriate. Different, reasonable estimates could have been used in the current period. Additionally, changes in accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Both of these factors could have
a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition, changes in financial condition, or results of operations. 
  57 


Table of Contents
We believe that the following financial estimates and related accounting policies are both
important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require subjective or complex judgments. Further, we believe that the items discussed below are properly recorded in our consolidated financial statements for all
periods presented. Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of our most critical financial estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors and our independent registered public accounting firm. The judgments
about those financial estimates are based on information available as of the date of our consolidated financial statements. Those financial estimates and related policies include: 
Revenue Recognition  Our revenue is derived primarily from the sale of disposable or implantable devices used during vascular surgery. We sell directly to hospitals and to distributors, as described below, and, during the
periods presented in our consolidated financial statements, entered into consigned inventory arrangements with either hospitals or distributors on a limited basis.  We recognize revenue when four basic criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the fee is fixed or
determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. We generally use customer purchase orders or contracts to determine the existence of an arrangement. Substantially all sales transactions are based on prices that are determinable at
the time that the customer’s purchase order is accepted by us. In order to determine whether collection is reasonably assured, we assess a number of factors, including past transaction history with the customer and the creditworthiness of the
customer. If we determine that collection is not reasonably assured, we would defer the recognition of revenue until collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of payment. We provide for product returns at the time
revenue is recognized based on our historical return product history. Based on these policies, we recognize revenue, net of allowances for returns and discounts, as products are shipped, based on shipping point terms, or at the time consigned
inventory is consumed at which time title passes to customers. We recognize revenue net of allowances for returns and discounts, at the time of shipment of our products to our distributors. 
Accounts Receivable  Our accounts receivable are with customers based in the United States and internationally. Accounts receivable generally are due within 30 to 90 days of invoice and are stated at amounts due from
customers, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and sales returns, other than in certain European markets where longer payment terms are customary and may range from 90 to 240 days. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of the financial
condition of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the current creditworthiness of the customers, as determined by a review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor aging reports, collections, and
payments from customers, and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues we identify.  We closely monitor outstanding receivables for potential collection risks, including those that may arise from economic conditions, in both the U.S. and international economies. Our European sales to
government-owned or supported customers such as hospitals, distributors and agents, in Southern Europe, specifically Italy, Spain and Greece may be subject to significant payment delays due to government austerity measures impacting funding and
payment practices. As of December 31, 2011 our receivables in Italy, Spain and Greece totaled $1.2 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Receivables balances with certain publicly-owned hospitals and government supported
customers in these countries can accumulate over a period of time and then subsequently be settled as large lump sum payments. While we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts in these countries is adequate as of December 31, 2011, if
significant changes were to occur in the payment practices of these European governments or if government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on receivables due to us from these customers and our write offs of uncollectible
amounts may increase. 
  58 


Table of Contents
We write off accounts receivable when they become uncollectible. While such credit losses
have historically been within our expectations and allowances, we cannot guarantee the same credit loss rates will be experienced in the future. The allowance for doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our
existing accounts receivable. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts on a monthly basis and all past due balances are reviewed individually for collectability. The provision for the allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded in general and
administrative expenses.  Inventory  Inventory consists of finished products, work-in-process, and raw materials. We value inventory at the lower of cost or market value. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead and is
determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. On a quarterly basis, we review inventory quantities on hand and analyze the provision for excess and obsolete inventory based primarily on product expiration dating and our estimated sales
forecast, which is based on sales history and anticipated future demand. Our estimates of future product demand may not be accurate, and we may understate or overstate the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. Accordingly, any
significant unanticipated changes in demand could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and results of operations.  Stock-based Compensation  We recognize, as expense, the estimated
fair value of stock options to employees which is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. We have elected to recognize the compensation cost of all share-based awards on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award. In
periods that we grant stock options, fair value assumptions are based on volatility, interest, dividend yield, and expected term over which the stock options will be outstanding. The computation of expected volatility is based on the historical
volatility of the company’s stock. The interest rate for periods within the contractual life of the award is based on the U.S. Treasury risk-free interest rate in effect at the time of grant. The expected lives of the options were
estimated using the simplified method for “plain vanilla” options. Computation of expected forfeitures is based on historical forfeiture rates of our share-based awards. 
We also issue restricted stock units (RSUs) as an additional form of equity compensation to our employees, officers, and directors,
pursuant to our stockholder-approved 2006 Plan. RSUs entitle the grantee to an issuance of stock at no cost and generally vest over a period of time determined by our Board of Directors at the time of grant based upon the continued service to the
company. The fair market value of the award is determined based on the number of RSUs granted and the market value of our common stock on the grant date and is amortized to expense over the period of vesting. Computation of expected forfeitures is
based on historical forfeiture rates of our share-based awards. Unvested RSUs are forfeited and canceled as of the date that employment or service to the company terminates. RSUs are settled in shares of our common stock upon vesting. We may
repurchase common stock upon our employees’ vesting in RSUs in order to cover any minimum tax withholding liability as a result of the RSUs having vested.  We used an expected forfeiture rate of approximately 16%, 16%, and 16% for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Share-based compensation charges are recorded net of the estimated forfeitures and will be
adjusted in future periods to reflect the results of actual forfeitures and vesting. Share-based compensation charges are recorded across the consolidated statement of operations based upon the grantee’s primary function. 
As disclosed more fully in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, we recorded expense of approximately $1.1 million in
connection with share-based payment awards for the year ended December 31, 2011. The future expense of non-vested share-based awards of approximately $2.3 million is to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.2 years. During 2011, we
granted stock options at a weighted average fair value of $7.07 and restricted stock units with weighted average fair value of $7.10. 
  59 


Table of Contents
Valuation of Goodwill, Other Intangibles 
Goodwill represents the amount of consideration paid in connection with business acquisitions in excess of the fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present or changes in circumstances suggest that an impairment may exist. We evaluate the December 31 balance of
the carrying value of goodwill based on a single reporting unit annually. We perform an assessment of qualitative factors to determine if it is “more likely than not” that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying
value as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The “more likely than not” threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If required, the next step of the
goodwill impairment test is to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined on the same basis as the amount of goodwill recognized in connection with a business combination. Specifically, the fair
value of a reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination as of the date of the impairment review and as if the
fair value of the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount
of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Goodwill was $11.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Our annual impairment testing
indicated no significant risk of impairment based upon changes in value that are reasonably likely to occur. However, changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the estimated fair value of our reporting unit. 
Other intangible assets consist primarily of purchased developed technology, patents, customer relationships, and trademarks and are
amortized over their estimated useful lives, ranging from 1 to 15 years. We review intangible assets quarterly to determine if any adverse conditions exist for a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment. Conditions
that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of the asset, a change in the operating cash flows associated with the asset, or adverse
action or assessment by a regulator. If an impairment indicator exists we test the intangible asset for recoverability. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual
disposition of the intangible asset, we will write the carrying value down to the fair value in the period identified. We generally calculate fair value of our intangible assets as the present value of estimated future cash flows we expect to
generate from the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. In determining our estimated future cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we use estimates and assumptions about future revenue contributions, cost structures, and remaining
useful lives of the asset. These estimates and assumptions require significant judgment and actual results may differ from assumed or estimated amounts. Other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $3.0 million as of
December 31, 2011, and $3.7 million as of December 31, 2010. We recognized impairment charges on our intangible assets of $0.1 million in 2011, $0.5 million in 2010, and $0.1 million in 2009. 
Contingencies  In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, and other claims and assessments for matters related to, among other things, patent infringement, business acquisitions,
employment, and product recalls. We assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is
made after careful analysis of each individual issue. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. We record
charges for the costs we anticipate incurring in connection with litigation and claims against us when we determine a loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate these costs. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we were
not subject to any material litigation, claims or assessments. 
  60 


Table of Contents
Restructuring 
We record restructuring charges incurred in connection with consolidation or relocation of operations, exited business lines, or
distributor terminations. These restructuring charges, which reflect our commitment to a termination or exit plan that will begin within twelve months, are based on estimates of the expected costs associated with site closure, legal matters,
contract terminations, or other costs directly related to the restructuring. If the actual cost incurred exceeds the estimated cost, an additional charge to earnings will result. If the actual cost is less than the estimated cost, a credit to
earnings will be recognized.  Income Taxes 
As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements we are required to determine our income taxes in each of the
jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from recognition of items for income tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in
deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from taxable income during the carryback period or in the future; and to
the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a period, we must reflect this increase as an expense within the tax provision
in the statement of operations. We do not provide for income taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, as our current intention is to permanently reinvest these earnings. 
We recognize, measure, present and disclose in our financial statements, uncertain tax positions that we have taken or expect to take on
a tax return. We operate in multiple taxing jurisdictions, both within the United States and outside of the United States and may be subject to audits from various tax authorities regarding transfer pricing, the deductibility of certain expenses,
intercompany transactions, and other matters. Within specific countries, we may be subject to audit by various tax authorities operating within the country and may be subject to different statutes of limitation expiration dates. Management’s
judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, liabilities for uncertain tax positions, and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We will continue to
monitor the realizability of our deferred tax assets and adjust the valuation allowance accordingly. We have recorded a valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets of $4.4 million and $4.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.  Marketable Securities  We consider all highly liquid investments with maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents, and investments with maturities of greater than 90 days at the time
of purchase to be marketable securities. The unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). When a marketable security incurs a significant unrealized loss for a sustained
period of time, we review the instrument to determine if it is other-than-temporarily impaired. If we conclude an instrument is other-than-temporarily impaired, we record the unrealized loss in the consolidated statement of operations. We did not
hold any marketable securities as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended existing rules covering fair value measurement and disclosure to
clarify guidance and minimize differences between U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The new guidance requires us to provide information about valuation techniques and
unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements and provide a narrative description of the sensitivity of Level 3 measurements to changes in unobservable inputs. The guidance is effective on January 1, 2012. We do not expect that
the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. 
  61 


Table of Contents
In June 2011, new guidance was issued pertaining to the presentation of comprehensive
income. The new rule eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in equity. The standard is intended to provide a more consistent method of presenting non-owner transactions that
affect the company’s equity. Under the new guidance, an entity can elect to present items of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. The new guidance is effective
for fiscal years that begin after December 15, 2011. We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance pertaining to the testing of goodwill for impairment which allows an entity
to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Under this new guidance, an entity would not be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless
the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. The changes are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2011; however, early adoption is permitted. We adopted the new authoritative guidance in the fourth quarter of 2011 in connection with our annual impairment test. The adoption of this standard did not have a
material impact on our results of operations or financial position.  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2011. We do not currently have, nor have we ever had, any
relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet
arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. In addition, we do not engage in trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts. As a result, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit
risk that could arise if we had engaged in these relationships.   


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  This item is not applicable to us as a smaller reporting company.   


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  See the consolidated financial statements filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as listed under Item 15 below. 
 


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
Not Applicable.   


Item
9A. Controls and Procedures 
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  Based on their evaluation as of December 31, 2011, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with the participation of management, have concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) were effective at reasonable assurance levels. 
  62 


Table of Contents
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.  Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011. Management based its assessment on criteria established in the Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management’s
assessment included evaluation of elements such as the design and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls, process documentation, accounting policies, and our overall control environment. 
Based on this assessment under the criteria set forth in the Internal Control — Integrated Framework, management has
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.  Pursuant to
Item 308 of Regulation S-K, this management’s report on internal control over financing reporting shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  There was no change in the our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.  Inherent Limitations of Internal Controls 
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and
procedures or our internal controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of
the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities
that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by
management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals
under all potential future conditions. Over time, control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective
control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.   


Item 9B.
Other Information  Not Applicable.

  63 


Table of Contents
PART III 
The information responsive to this item is incorporated by reference herein from the information to be contained in our 2012 definitive
proxy statement (the “2012 Definitive Proxy Statement”) for the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2011. 
 


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  The information responsive to this item is incorporated by reference herein from the information to be contained in the sections entitled “Directors, Executive Officers and Key Employees,”
“Corporate Governance,” and “Meeting and Committees of the Board of Directors” in our 2012 definitive proxy statement (the “2012 Definitive Proxy Statement”) for the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2011.  The information required
by this item concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated herein by reference from the information contained in the section entitled “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our 2012
Definitive Proxy Statement.  Code of Ethics  Certain documents relating to our corporate governance, including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is applicable to our directors, officers, and employees, and the charters of the Audit
Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors, are available on our website at http://www.lemaitre.com. We intend to disclose substantive amendments to or waivers (including
implicit waivers) of any provision of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, or controller, or persons performing similar functions, by
posting such information on our website available at http://www.lemaitre.com.    


Item 11.
Executive Compensation 
The information responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference from the information to be contained in the section entitled
“Compensation of Executive Officers and Directors” in our 2012 Definitive Proxy Statement.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference from the information to be contained in the section entitled
“Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in our 2012 Definitive Proxy Statement. 
  64 


Table of Contents
Equity Compensation Plan Information 
The following table sets forth information regarding our equity compensation plans in effect as of December 31, 2010. Each of our
equity compensation plans is an “employee benefit plan” as defined by Rule 405 of Regulation C of the Securities Act of 1933.   
















 Plan category
  
Number of securitiesto be issued uponexercise ofoutstanding options,warrants and
rights
 
  
Weighted-averageexercise price ofoutstandingoptions, warrantsand rights
 
  
Number ofsecurities remainingavailable for futureissuance underequitycompensation
plans(excludingsecurities reflectedin column (a))
 

 
  
(a)
 
  
(b)
 
  
(c)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
  
 
2,347,124
  
  
$
5.43
  
  
 
1,210,715
  

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
2,347,124
  
  
$
5.43
  
  
 
1,210,715
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  The information required responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference from the information to be contained in the sections entitled “Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions” and “Corporate Governance” in our 2012 Definitive Proxy Statement.   


Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services  The information responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference from the information to be contained in the section entitled “Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm” in our 2012 Definitive Proxy Statement. 
  65 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   


a)
Documents filed as part of this Report.   


 
(1)
The following consolidated financial statements are filed herewith in Item 8 of Part II above. 
 


 
(i)
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   


 
(ii)
Consolidated Balance Sheets   


 
(iii)
Consolidated Statements of Operations   


 
(iv)
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
 


 
(v)
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   


 
(vi)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   


 
(2)
Financial Statement Schedules   


 
(3)
Exhibits   


















 ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Description
  
Incorporated By Reference
 
  
 

  
  
Form
  
Date
 
  
Number
 
  
FiledHerewith








  3.1
  
Amended and Restated By-laws of the Registrant
  
S-1/A
  
 
5/26/06
  
  
 
3.1
  
  









  3.2
  
Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
  
10-K
  
 
3/29/10
  
  
 
3.2
  
  









  4.1
  
Specimen Certificate evidencing shares of common stock
  
S-1/A
  
 
6/22/06
  
  
 
4.1
  
  









10.1
  
Northwest Park Lease dated March 31, 2003, by and between the Registrant and Roger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, as
amended
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.1
  
  









10.2
  
Registration Rights Agreement dated June 17, 1998, by and between the Registrant and Housatonic Equity Investors, L.P.
  
S-1/A
  
 
5/26/06
  
  
 
10.2
  
  









10.5
  
License Agreement dated February 11, 1992, by and between United States Surgical Corporation and Spinnaker R&D Associates, as amended
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.5
  
  









10.6
  
Side Letter Agreement dated January 30, 2004, by and between the Registrant and Spinnaker R&D Associates
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.6
  
  









10.7†
  
Executive Retention and Severance Agreement dated October 10, 2005, by and between the Registrant and George W. LeMaitre
  
S-1/A
  
 
5/26/06
  
  
 
10.7
  
  









10.8†
  
Managing Director Employment Agreement dated October 1, 2008, by and between LeMaitre Vascular GmbH and Peter Gebauer, as amended
  
10-K
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.8
  
  









10.9†
  
Employment Agreement dated June 20, 2006, by and between the Registrant and David Roberts
  
S-1/A
  
 
6/22/06
  
  
 
10.24
  
  









10.10†
  
Employment Agreement dated April 20, 2006, by and between the Registrant and Joseph P. Pellegrino
  
S-1/A
  
 
6/22/06
  
  
 
10.10
  
  

  66 


Table of Contents




















 ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Description
  
Incorporated By Reference
 
  
 
 

  
  
Form
  
Date
 
  
Number
 
  
FiledHerewith
 








10.11†
  
1997 Stock Option Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.11
  
  











10.12†
  
1998 Stock Option Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.12
  
  











10.13†
  
2000 Stock Option Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.13
  
  











10.14†
  
2004 Stock Option Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.14
  
  











10.15†
  
Second Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Option and Incentive Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
8-K
  
 
6/18/10
  
  
 
10.1
  
  











10.16†
  
Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and its directors and executive officers
  
S-1/A
  
 
5/26/06
  
  
 
10.17
  
  











10.17†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Registrant’s 2006 Stock Option and Incentive Plan
  
8-K
  
 
12/26/06
  
  
 
99.1
  
  











10.18†
  
Management Incentive Compensation Plan
  
8-K
  
 
4/27/07
  
  
 
10.1
  
  











10.19  
  
Second Amendment of Lease dated May 21, 2007, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
8-K
  
 
6/15/07
  
  
 
10.1
  
  











10.20  
  
Third Amendment of Lease dated February 26, 2008, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
8-K
  
 
4/10/08
  
  
 
10.1
  
  











10.21  
  
Fourth Amendment of Lease dated October 31, 2008, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
10-K
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.36
  
  











10.22†
  
First Amendment to Executive Retention and Severance Agreement dated December 23, 2008, by and between the Registrant and George W. LeMaitre
  
10-K
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.37
  
  











10.23†
  
First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated December 19, 2008, by and between the Registrant and David Roberts
  
10-K
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.38
  
  











10.24†
  
First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated December 19, 2008, by and between the Registrant and Joseph P. Pellegrino
  
10-K
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.39
  
  











10.25  
  
Fifth Amendment of Lease dated March 23, 2010, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
10-K
  
 
3/29/10
  
  
 
10.33
  
  











10.26  
  
Northwest Park Lease dated March 23, 2010, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
10-K
  
 
3/29/10
  
  
 
10.34
  
  











10.27  
  
Director Compensation Policy
  

  



  



  
 
X
  








10.28  
  
First Amendment to Northwest Park Lease dated September 14, 2010, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and
Registrant
  

  



  



  
 
X
  
  67 


Table of Contents
















 ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Description
  
Incorporated By Reference
  
 
 

  
  
Form
  
Date
  
Number
  
FiledHerewith
 








  10.29
  
Second Amendment to Northwest Park Lease dated October 31, 2011, by and between NWP Building 4 LLC, as successor-in-interest to Trustees of Northwest Associates, and
Registrant
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








  21.1
  
List of Subsidiaries
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








  23.1
  
Consent of Ernst & Young LLP
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








  31.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a)
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








  31.2
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a)
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








  32.1*
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350 of Chapter 36 of Title 18 of the United States
Code (18 U.S.C. §1350)
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








  32.2*
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350 of Chapter 36 of Title 18 of the United States
Code (18 U.S.C. §1350)
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document.
  

  

  

  











101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
  

  

  

  











101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  











101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  











101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  











101.PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  



  


†
Indicates a management contract or any compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement. 


*
 The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 and 32.2 that accompany this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference
into any filing of LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-K, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. 
  68 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 27, 2012.   






 LEMAITRE VASCULAR




 By:
 
 /s/    GEORGE W.
LEMAITRE


 
 George W. LeMaitre, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/    GEORGE
W. LEMAITRE         George W. LeMaitre
  
 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board (Principal Executive Officer)
 
March 27, 2012





 /s/    JOSEPH
P. PELLEGRINO, Jr.         Joseph P. Pellegrino,
Jr.
  
 Chief Financial Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)
 
March 27, 2012






/s/    RUSSELL D.
HAYS         Russell D. Hays
  
Director
 
March 27, 2012






/s/    MICHAEL C.
JACKSON         Michael C. Jackson
  
Director
 
March 27, 2012






/s/    LAWRENCE J.
JASINSKI         Lawrence J. Jasinski
  
Director
 
March 27, 2012






/s/    CORNELIA W.
LEMAITRE         Cornelia W. LeMaitre
  
 Vice President, Human Resources and Director
 
March 27, 2012





 /s/    GEORGE
D. LEMAITRE, M.D.         George D. LeMaitre,
M.D.
  
Director
 
March 27, 2012





 /s/    JOHN
J. O’CONNOR         John J. O’Connor
  
Director
 
March 27, 2012





 /s/    DAVID
B. ROBERTS         David B. Roberts
  
President and Director
 
March 27, 2012






/s/    WILLIAM N.
THORNDIKE, Jr.         William N. Thorndike, Jr.
  
Director
 
March 27, 2012

  69 


Table of Contents
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 








 
  
Page
 

 LeMaitre Vascular, Inc.
  







 Consolidated Financial Statements
  







 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
F-2
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
F-3
  




 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-4
  




 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December 31,
 2011, 2010 and 2009
  
 
F-5
  




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-8
  




 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
F-9
  

  F-1



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders of LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  /s/ Ernst & Young LLP  Boston, Massachusetts 
March 27, 2012 
  F-2



Table of Contents
LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 












 
  
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Assets
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
20,132
  
 
$
22,614
  

 Accounts receivable, net of allowances of $211 at December 31, 2011, and $184 at December 31, 2010
  
 
8,541
  
 
 
8,475
  

 Inventory
  
 
8,003
  
 
 
8,375
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
3,011
  
 
 
3,447
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
39,687
  
 
 
42,911
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
4,661
  
 
 
3,806
  

 Goodwill
  
 
11,917
  
 
 
11,917
  

 Other intangibles, net
  
 
2,985
  
 
 
3,686
  

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
6
  
 
 
134
  

 Other assets
  
 
431
  
 
 
820
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
59,687
  
 
$
63,274
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
981
  
 
$
1,320
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
5,539
  
 
 
8,628
  

 Acquisition-related obligations
  
 
19
  
 
 
441
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
6,539
  
 
 
10,389
  

 Deferred tax liabilities
  
 
989
  
 
 
443
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
71
  
 
 
86
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
7,599
  
 
 
10,918
  

 Commitments and contingencies (Note 8)
  



 




 Stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; authorized 5,000,000 shares; none outstanding
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock, $0.01 par value; authorized 100,000,000 shares; issued 16,303,155 shares at December 31, 2011, and 16,117,201
shares at December 31, 2010
  
 
163
  
 
 
161
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
64,619
  
 
 
64,642
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(6,440
) 
 
 
(8,583
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(606
) 
 
 
(429
) 

 Treasury stock, at cost; 975,700 shares at December 31, 2011, and 637,916 shares at December 31, 2010
  
 
(5,648
) 
 
 
(3,435
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
52,088
  
 
 
52,356
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
59,687
  
 
$
63,274
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements. 
  F-3



Table of Contents
LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Operations 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 (in thousands,
except per share data)
 

 Net sales
  
$
57,685
  
 
$
56,060
  
 
$
50,908
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
17,458
  
 
 
14,341
  
 
 
13,604
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
40,227
  
 
 
41,719
  
 
 
37,304
  

 Sales and marketing
  
 
19,375
  
 
 
19,409
  
 
 
17,710
  

 General and administrative
  
 
11,228
  
 
 
10,506
  
 
 
9,852
  

 Research and development
  
 
4,425
  
 
 
5,488
  
 
 
5,910
  

 Restructuring charges
  
 
2,161
  
 
 
1,816
  
 
 
1,777
  

 Gain on termination of distribution agreement
  
 
(735
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Impairment charges
  
 
83
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
106
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
36,537
  
 
 
37,704
  
 
 
35,355
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
3,690
  
 
 
4,015
  
 
 
1,949
  

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 




 Interest income
  
 
11
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
38
  

 Interest expense
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(26
) 

 Foreign currency gain (loss)
  
 
51
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
280
  

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
(26
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
3,752
  
 
 
4,025
  
 
 
2,215
  

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
 
1,609
  
 
 
(1,988
) 
 
 
617
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
2,143
  
 
$
6,013
  
 
$
1,598
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income per share of common stock:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
0.14
  
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
0.10
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
0.13
  
 
$
0.37
  
 
$
0.10
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average shares outstanding:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
15,458
  
 
 
15,627
  
 
 
15,687
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
 
15,989
  
 
 
16,114
  
 
 
15,916
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash dividends declared per common share
  
$
0.08
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements. 
  F-4



Table of Contents
LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income 
(in thousands, except share data)   




































 
  
Common Stock
 
  
AdditionalPaid-inCapital

 
  
AccumulatedDeficit

 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
Treasury Stock
 
 
TotalStockholders’Equity

 

 
  
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
  
 
 
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
15,703,522
  
  
$
157
  
  
$
62,290
  
  
$
(16,194
) 
 
$
(272
) 
 
 
50,284
  
  
$
(233
) 
 
$
45,748
  

 Net income
  



  



  



  
 
1,598
  
 



 



  



 
 
1,598
  

 Unrealized gain on available for sale securities
  



  



  



  



 
 
95
  
 



  



 
 
95
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  



  



  



  



 
 
271
  
 



  



 
 
271
  


  



  



  



  



 



 



  



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  



  



  



  



 



 



  



 
 
1,964
  

 Issuance of common stock for stock options exercised
  
 
51,250
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
156
  
  



 



 



  



 
 
157
  

 Issuance of common stock for employee stock plan purchases
  
 
18,378
  
  



  
 
44
  
  



 



 



  



 
 
44
  

 Vested restricted stock units
  
 
138,469
  
  
 
1
  
  



  



 



 



  



 
 
1
  

 Stock based compensation expense
  



  



  
 
985
  
  



 



 



  



 
 
985
  

 Repurchase of common stock at cost
  



  



  



  



 



 
 
160,654
  
  
 
(686
) 
 
 
(686
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
15,911,619
  
  
$
159
  
  
$
63,475
  
  
$
(14,596
) 
 
$
94
  
 
 
210,938
  
  
$
(919
) 
 
$
48,213
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  F-5



Table of Contents
LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income—(continued) 
(in thousands, except share data)   




































 
 
Common Stock
 
  
AdditionalPaid-in
Capital
 
  
AccumulatedDeficit

 
 
AccumulatedOther
ComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
Treasury Stock
 
 
TotalStockholders’
Equity
 

 
 
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
  
 
 
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 
 
15,911,619
  
  
$
159
  
  
$
63,475
  
  
$
(14,596
) 
 
$
94
  
 
 
210,938
  
  
$
(919
) 
 
$
48,213
  

 Net income
 



  



  



  
 
6,013
  
 



 



  



 
 
6,013
  

 Unrealized loss on available for sale securities
 



  



  



  



 
 
(4
) 
 



  



 
 
(4
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
 



  



  



  



 
 
(519
) 
 



  



 
 
(519
) 


 



  



  



  



 



 



  



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



  



  



  



 



 



  



 
 
5,490
  

 Issuance of common stock for stock options exercised
 
 
73,497
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
130
  
  



 



 



  



 
 
131
  

 Vested restricted stock units
 
 
132,085
  
  
 
1
  
  



  



 



 



  



 
 
1
  

 Tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards
 



  



  
 
70
  
  



 



 



  



 
 
70
  

 Stock based compensation expense
 



  



  
 
967
  
  



 



 



  



 
 
967
  

 Repurchase of common stock at cost
 



  



  



  



 



 
 
426,978
  
  
 
(2,516
) 
 
 
(2,516
) 


 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
16,117,201
  
  
$
161
  
  
$
64,642
  
  
$
(8,583
) 
 
$
(429
) 
 
 
637,916
  
  
$
(3,435
) 
 
$
52,356
  


 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  F-6



Table of Contents
LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income—(continued) 
(in thousands, except share data)   




































 
 
Common Stock
 
  
AdditionalPaid-in
Capital
 
 
AccumulatedDeficit

 
 
AccumulatedotherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
Treasury Stock
 
 
TotalStockholders’
Equity
 

 
 
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
 
 
 
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
16,117,201
  
  
$
161
  
  
$
64,642
  
 
$
(8,583
) 
 
$
(429
) 
 
 
637,916
  
  
$
(3,435
) 
 
$
52,356
  

 Net income
 



  



  



 
 
2,143
  
 



 



  



 
 
2,143
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
 



  



  



 



 
 
(177
) 
 



  



 
 
(177
) 


 



  



  



 



 



 



  



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



  



  



 



 



 



  



 
 
1,966
  

 Issuance of common stock for stock options exercised
 
 
56,751
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
67
  
 



 



 



  



 
 
68
  

 Vested restricted stock units
 
 
129,203
  
  
 
1
  
  



 



 



 



  



 
 
1
  

 Tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards
 



  



  
 
50
  
 



 



 



  



 
 
50
  

 Stock based compensation expense
 



  



  
 
1,097
  
 



 



 



  



 
 
1,097
  

 Repurchase of common stock at cost
 



  



  



 



 



 
 
337,784
  
  
 
(2,213
) 
 
 
(2,213
) 

 Common stock cash dividend paid
 



  



  
 
(1,237
) 
 



 



 



  



 
 
(1,237
) 


 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
16,303,155
  
  
$
163
  
  
$
64,619
  
 
$
(6,440
) 
 
$
(606
) 
 
 
975,700
  
  
$
(5,648
) 
 
$
52,088
  


 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  F-7



Table of Contents
LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Operating activities
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
2,143
  
 
$
6,013
  
 
$
1,598
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
2,037
  
 
 
1,376
  
 
 
1,419
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
1,097
  
 
 
967
  
 
 
985
  

 Amortization of premium on marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
46
  

 Loss on sales of marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
34
  

 Impairment charges
  
 
83
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
106
  

 Provision for losses in accounts receivable
  
 
56
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
75
  

 Provision for inventory write-downs
  
 
1,011
  
 
 
836
  
 
 
428
  

 Provision (benefit) for deferred income taxes
  
 
1,159
  
 
 
(2,380
) 
 
 
226
  

 Gain on termination of distribution agreement
  
 
(735
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards
  
 
(50
) 
 
 
(70
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Loss on disposal of property and equipment
  
 
30
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
17
  

 Non cash restructuring charges
  
 
732
  
 
 
108
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign currency transaction gain (loss)
  
 
(156
) 
 
 
37
  
 
 
63
  

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effect of business acquisitions:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
(174
) 
 
 
(973
) 
 
 
(486
) 

 Inventory
  
 
(998
) 
 
 
(1,735
) 
 
 
164
  

 Prepaid expenses and other assets
  
 
105
  
 
 
(846
) 
 
 
610
  

 Accounts payable and other liabilities
  
 
(3,170
) 
 
 
3,127
  
 
 
155
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
3,170
  
 
 
7,052
  
 
 
5,440
  






 Investing activities
  



 



 




 Purchases of property and equipment
  
 
(2,021
) 
 
 
(2,471
) 
 
 
(577
) 

 Payments related to acquisitions
  
 
(1,151
) 
 
 
(3,520
) 
 
 
(759
) 

 Receipts related to divestitures
  
 
1,414
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
—  
  

 Purchase of technology and licenses
  
 
(64
) 
 
 
(87
) 
 
 
(1,048
) 

 Sales and maturities of marketable securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
803
  
 
 
4,566
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
(1,822
) 
 
 
(5,235
) 
 
 
2,182
  






 Financing activities
  



 



 




 Proceeds from issuance of common stock
  
 
69
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
202
  

 Purchase of treasury stock
  
 
(2,213
) 
 
 
(2,516
) 
 
 
(686
) 

 Tax benefits from stock-based compensation awards
  
 
50
  
 
 
70
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock cash dividend paid
  
 
(1,237
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from Italian government loan
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
108
  

 Payments of Italian government loan and grant
  
 
(469
) 
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
  
 
(3,800
) 
 
 
(2,335
) 
 
 
(376
) 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
(60
) 
 
 
51
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(2,482
) 
 
 
(578
) 
 
 
7,297
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
22,614
  
 
 
23,192
  
 
 
15,895
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
20,132
  
 
$
22,614
  
 
$
23,192
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information (see Note 14).
  



 



 




  See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements. 
  F-8



Table of Contents
LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  December 31, 2011 
1. Significant Accounting Policies and Related Matters 
Description of Business  Unless the context requires otherwise, references to LeMaitre Vascular, we, our, and us refer to LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. and our subsidiaries. We develop, manufacture, and market medical devices and
implants used primarily in the field of vascular surgery. We operate in a single segment in which our principal product lines are balloon catheters, carotid shunts, laparoscopic cholecystectomy devices, radiopaque tape, remote endarterectomy
devices, valvulotomes, vascular grafts, vascular patches, and vessel closure systems. In addition, we have rights to exclusively distribute in the United States and most of Europe a biologic vascular patch manufactured by a third party through
January 26, 2016. Our offices are located in Burlington, Massachusetts, Sulzbach, Germany, Milan, Italy, Madrid, Spain, and Tokyo, Japan.  Consolidation and Basis of Presentation  Our consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of LeMaitre Vascular and the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, LeMaitre Vascular GmbH, LeMaitre Vascular GK, Vascutech Acquisition LLC, LeMaitre Acquisition LLC, LeMaitre Vascular SAS, Biomateriali S.r.l.,
LeMaitre Vascular S.r.l, and LeMaitre Vascular Spain SL. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  Foreign Currency Translation  Balance sheet accounts of foreign
subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. Operating accounts are translated at average exchange rates for each year. Net translation gains or losses are adjusted directly to a separate component of other comprehensive
income (loss) within stockholders’ equity. Foreign exchange transaction gains (losses), substantially all of which relate to intercompany activity between us and our foreign subsidiaries, are included in other income (expense) in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations.  Estimates 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our estimates and assumptions, including those related to bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, sales returns and
discounts, and income taxes are reviewed on an ongoing basis and updated as appropriate. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  Revenue Recognition  Our revenue is derived primarily from the sale
of disposable or implantable devices used during vascular surgery. We sell directly to hospitals and to distributors, as described below, and, during the periods presented in our consolidated financial statements, entered into consigned inventory
arrangements with either hospitals or distributors on a limited basis.  We recognize revenue when four basic criteria are met:
(1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the fee is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. We assess whether the fee is fixed or
determinable based on the terms of the agreement associated with the transaction. Substantially all sales transactions are based on prices that are 
  F-9



Table of Contents

determinable at the time the customer’s purchase order is accepted by us. Orders that are not accompanied with a purchase order are either confirmed in writing or verbally with the customer.
 After the delivery of the product, there is no uncertainty about customer acceptance due to the nature of the product. There
is no contingency for acceptance, warranty, or price protection. We do not recognize revenue on consigned sales until the customer notifies us that the products have been used. In order to determine whether collection is reasonably assured, we
assess a number of factors, including past transaction history with the customer and the creditworthiness of the customer. If we determine that collection is not reasonably assured, we defer the recognition of revenue until collection becomes
reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of payment. We provide for product returns at the time revenue is recognized based on our product return history.  Based on these policies, we recognize revenue, net of allowances for returns and discounts, as products are shipped, based on shipping point terms, or at the time consigned inventory is consumed at which
time title passes to customers. We recognize revenue net of allowances for returns and discounts, at the time of shipment of our products to our distributors. Customers returning products are entitled to full or partial credit based on the condition
and timing of the return. To be accepted, a returned product must be unopened (if sterile), unadulterated, and undamaged, and must have at least 18 months remaining prior to its expiration date, or twelve months for our hospital customers in Europe.
These return policies apply to sales to both hospitals and distributors. The amount of products returned to us, either for exchange or credit, has not been material. Nevertheless, we provide for an allowance for future sales returns based on
historical return experience. Our cost of replacing defective products has not been material and is accounted for at the time of replacement.  Research and Development Expense  Research and development costs,
principally salaries, laboratory testing, and supplies, are expensed as incurred.  Shipping and Handling Costs
 Shipping and handling fees paid by customers are recorded within net sales, with the related expense recorded in cost
of sales.  Advertising Costs  Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and are included as a component of sales and marketing expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Advertising costs are as follows:
  
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Advertising expense
  
$
284
  
  
$
316
  
  
$
359
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Cash and Cash Equivalents 
We consider all highly liquid instruments purchased with maturity dates of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash
equivalents are primarily invested in money market funds. These amounts are stated at cost, which approximates fair value. 
Marketable Securities  We consider all highly liquid investments with maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents, and investments with maturities of greater than 90 days at the time
of purchase to be marketable 
  F-10



Table of Contents

securities. The unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). When a marketable security incurs a significant
unrealized loss for a sustained period of time, we review the instrument to determine if it is other-than-temporarily impaired. If we conclude an instrument is other-than-temporarily impaired, we record the unrealized loss in the consolidated
statement of operations. We did not hold any marketable securities as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. 
Concentrations of Credit Risk  Our financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, and notes receivable. Cash
equivalents represent highly liquid investments with maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase. Marketable securities are investment grade, interest-earning securities and are diversified by type and industry. Credit risk related to
cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are limited based on the creditworthiness of the financial institutions at which these funds are held. Credit risk related to notes receivable is assessed based upon the individual payor as of the
original fair value determination and updated periodically as required.  Our accounts receivable are with customers based in
the United States and internationally. Accounts receivable generally are due within 30 to 90 days of invoice and are stated at amounts due from customers, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and sales returns, other than in certain European
markets where longer payment terms are customary and may range from 90 to 240 days. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of the financial condition of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the current
creditworthiness of the customers, as determined by a review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor aging reports, collections, and payments from customers, and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon
historical experience and any specific customer collection issues we identify.  We closely monitor outstanding receivables for
potential collection risks, including those that may arise from economic conditions, in both the U.S. and international economies. Our European sales to government-owned or supported customers such as hospitals, distributors and agents, in Southern
Europe, specifically Italy, Spain and Greece may be subject to significant payment delays due to government austerity measures impacting funding and payment practices. As of December 31, 2011 our receivables in Italy, Spain and Greece totaled
$1.2 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Receivables balances with certain publicly-owned hospitals and government supported customers in these countries can accumulate over a period of time and then subsequently be settled as
large lump sum payments. While we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts in these countries is adequate as of December 31, 2011, if significant changes were to occur in the payment practices of these European governments or if government
funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on receivables due to us from these customers and our write offs of uncollectible amounts may increase.  We write off accounts receivable when they become uncollectible. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and allowances, we cannot guarantee the same credit loss rates will
be experienced in the future. The allowance for doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We review our allowance for doubtful accounts on a monthly basis and all past due
balances are reviewed individually for collectability. The provision for the allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded in general and administrative expenses. The following is a summary of our allowance for doubtful accounts and sales returns:
  




















 
  
Balance 
atBeginningof Period
 
  
AdditionsCharged 
toIncome
 
  
Deductionsfrom
Reserves
 
  
Balance atEnd
ofPeriod
 

  
  
  
  

  
  
  
  

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Allowance for doubtful accounts and sales returns:
  



  



  



  




 Year ended December 31, 2011
  
$
184
  
  
$
56
  
  
$
29
  
  
$
211
  

 Year ended December 31, 2010
  
 
159
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
30
  
  
 
184
  

 Year ended December 31, 2009
  
 
160
  
  
 
75
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
159
  

  F-11



Table of Contents
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
Our financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, trade payables, and notes
payable. The fair value of the majority of these instruments approximates their carrying value based upon their short-term nature or variable rates of interest.  Inventory  Inventory consists of finished products, work-in-process,
and raw materials. We value inventory at the lower of cost or market value. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead and is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. On a quarterly basis, we review inventory
quantities on hand and analyze the provision for excess and obsolete inventory based primarily on product expiration dating and our estimated sales forecast, which is based on sales history and anticipated future demand. Our estimates of future
product demand may not be accurate, and we may understate or overstate the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. Accordingly, any significant unanticipated changes in demand could have a significant impact on the value of our
inventory and results of operations.  Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the related assets using
straight-line method as follows:   






 Description
  
 Useful Life

Computers and equipment
  
3–5 years

Machinery and equipment
  
3–10 years

Leasehold improvements
  
The shorter of its useful life or lease term
 Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations when incurred, while additions and
betterments are capitalized. When assets are retired or disposed, the asset’s original cost and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the accounts and any gain or loss is reflected in the statement of operations. 
Valuation of Business Combinations  We assign the value of the consideration transferred to acquire a business to the tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of their fair values at
the date of acquisition. We assess the fair value of assets, including intangible assets, using a variety of methods and are usually performed by an independent appraiser who measures fair value from the perspective of a market participant.
 Beginning January 1, 2009, acquisitions have been accounted for using the acquisition method, and the acquired
companies’ results have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition. Acquisition transaction costs have been recorded in general and administrative expenses, and are expensed as
incurred. Allocation of the purchase price for acquisitions is based on estimates of the fair value of the net assets acquired and, for acquisitions completed within the past year, is subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price
allocation.  Our acquisitions have historically been made at prices above the fair value of the acquired assets, resulting in
goodwill, due to expectations of synergies of combining the businesses. These synergies include use of our existing commercial infrastructure to expand sales of the acquired businesses’ products, use of the commercial infrastructure of the
acquired businesses to cost-effectively expand sales of our products, and the elimination of redundant facilities, functions and staffing. 
  F-12



Table of Contents
Contingent Consideration 
For business combinations completed after January 1, 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) requires contingent
consideration be recognized at the date of acquisition, based on the fair value at that date, and then re-measured periodically through adjustments to net income. We have not completed an acquisition with contingent consideration subsequent to
January 1, 2009.  Impairment of Long-lived Assets 
We review our long-lived assets (primarily property and equipment and intangible assets) subject to amortization quarterly to determine if
any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in
legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, a product recall, or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. If an impairment indicator exists, we test the intangible asset for recoverability. We record impairment
losses on long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets.
Impairment is measured based on the fair market value of the affected asset using discounted cash flows.  In 2011, we
determined that certain patents within our portfolio in the United States and Europe had no value based upon an analysis of expected economic benefits. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.1 million for the write-down of these
patents.  In 2010, we recognized impairment charges of $0.4 million related to our TAArget and UniFit products associated with
certain technology, customer lists, and fixed assets. We determined that an impairment indicator existed with respect to these products as we suspended enrollment into our UNITE and ENTRUST clinical trials and ceased development efforts related to
these products in October 2010. The fair value of the residual intangible assets of $0.2 million was determined by projected future cash flows discounted to their net present value and will be amortized over three years. Additionally, we incurred a
$0.1 million impairment charge associated with a Biomateriali private label customer relationship, which we subsequently terminated.  In 2009, we determined that certain patents within our endovascular product category portfolio in the United States and Europe had no value based upon an analysis of expected economic benefits. As a
result, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.1 million for the write-down of these patents.  These impairment adjustments
fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, due to the use of significant unobservable inputs to determine fair value. The fair value measurements were calculated using unobservable inputs, primarily using the income approach, specifically the
discounted cash flow method. The amount and timing of future cash flows within our analysis was based on our most recent operational budgets, long range strategic plans and other estimates. 
Goodwill  Goodwill represents the amount of consideration paid in connection with business acquisitions in excess of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment
annually or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present or changes in circumstances suggest that an impairment may exist. We evaluate the December 31 balance of the carrying value of goodwill based on a single reporting unit
annually. We perform an assessment of qualitative factors to determine if it is “more likely than not” that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying value as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform
the two-step goodwill impairment test. The “more likely than not” threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If required, the next step of the goodwill impairment test, is to determine the fair value of the
reporting unit. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined on the same basis as the amount 
  F-13



Table of Contents

of goodwill recognized in connection with a business combination. Specifically, the fair value of a reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities (including any unrecognized
intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination as of the date of the impairment review and as if the fair value of the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair
value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss shall
be recognized in an amount equal to that excess. We have determined that no goodwill impairment charges were required for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, or 2009. 
Other Intangible Assets  Other intangible assets consist primarily of patents, trademarks, technology licenses, and customer relationships acquired in connection with business acquisitions and asset acquisitions and are amortized
over their estimated useful lives, ranging from 1 to 15 years.  Stock-based Compensation 
We recognize, as expense, the estimated fair value of stock options to employees which is determined using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model. We have elected to recognize the compensation cost of all share-based awards on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award. In periods that we grant stock options, fair value assumptions are based on volatility,
interest, dividend yield, and expected term over which the stock options will be outstanding. The computation of expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the company’s stock. The interest rate for periods within the
contractual life of the award is based on the U.S. Treasury risk-free interest rate in effect at the time of grant. The expected lives of the options were estimated using the simplified method for “plain vanilla” options. Computation
of expected forfeitures is based on historical forfeiture rates of our share-based awards.  We also issue restricted stock
units (RSUs) as an additional form of equity compensation to our employees, officers, and directors, pursuant to our stockholder-approved 2006 Plan. RSUs entitle the grantee to an issuance of stock at no cost and generally vest over a period of time
determined by our Board of Directors at the time of grant based upon the continued service to the company. The fair market value of the award is determined based on the number of RSUs granted and the market value of our common stock on the grant
date and is amortized to expense over the period of vesting. Computation of expected forfeitures is based on historical forfeiture rates of our share-based awards. Unvested RSUs are forfeited and canceled as of the date that employment or service to
the company terminates. RSUs are settled in shares of our common stock upon vesting. We may repurchase common stock upon our employees’ vesting in RSUs in order to cover any minimum tax withholding liability as a result of the RSUs having
vested.  Share-based compensation charges are recorded net of the estimated forfeitures and will be adjusted in future periods
to reflect the results of actual forfeitures and vesting. Share-based compensation charges are recorded across the consolidated statement of operations based upon the grantee’s primary function. The expected forfeiture rates are as follows:
  
















 
  
 Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Expected forfeiture rate
  
 
16
% 
 
 
16
% 
 
 
18
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Commitments and Contingencies 
In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, and other claims and assessments for matters related to, among
other things, patent infringement, business acquisitions, employment, and product recalls. We assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential 
  F-14



Table of Contents

ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each individual issue. The required reserves may
change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. We record charges for the losses we anticipate incurring in connection with litigation and
claims against us when we conclude a loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate these losses. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we were not subject to any material litigation or claims and assessments. 
Income Taxes  We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability method, deferred taxes are determined based on the difference between the
financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. The provision for income taxes includes taxes currently payable and deferred taxes resulting
from the tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities. We maintain valuation allowances where it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not
be realized. Changes in the valuation allowances are included in our tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, we evaluate factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings,
carry-back and carry-forward periods and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of the realization of a deferred tax asset.  We recognize, measure, present and disclose in our financial statements, uncertain tax positions that we have taken or expect to take on a tax return. We recognize in our financial statements the impact
of tax positions that meet a “more likely than not” threshold, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a
greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.  Our policy is to classify interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense, which is consistent with that of prior years. 
Comprehensive Income  Comprehensive income is defined as the change in equity of a business enterprise during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources. Other than reported net
income, comprehensive income includes foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale marketable securities, which are disclosed in the accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity
and comprehensive income.  As of December 31, 2011, accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted of foreign currency
translation adjustment losses of $0.6 million. As of December 31, 2010, accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted of foreign currency translation adjustment losses of $0.4 million. 
Restructuring  We record restructuring charges incurred in connection with consolidation or relocation of operations, exited business lines, shutdowns of specific sites, or distributor terminations. These restructuring
charges, which reflect our commitment to a termination or exit plan that will begin within twelve months, are based on estimates of the expected costs associated with site closure, legal matters, contract terminations, employee separation
arrangements, or other costs directly related to the restructuring. If the actual cost incurred exceeds the estimated cost, an additional charge to earnings will result. If the actual cost is less than the estimated cost, a credit to earnings will
be recognized. 
  F-15



Table of Contents
Net Income per Share 
We compute basic earnings per share by dividing net income available for common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares
outstanding during the year. Except where the result would be anti-dilutive to net income per share, diluted earnings per share has been computed using the treasury stock method and reflects the potential vesting of restricted common stock and the
potential exercise of stock options, as well as their related income tax effects.  The computation of basic and diluted net
income per share is as follows:   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Basic:
  



  



  




 Net income available for common stockholders
  
$
2,143
  
  
$
6,013
  
  
$
1,598
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
15,458
  
  
 
15,627
  
  
 
15,687
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic net income per share
  
$
0.14
  
  
$
0.38
  
  
$
0.10
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted:
  



  



  




 Net income available for common stockholders
  
$
2,143
  
  
$
6,013
  
  
$
1,598
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted-average shares outstanding
  
 
15,458
  
  
 
15,627
  
  
 
15,687
  

 Common stock equivalents, if dilutive
  
 
531
  
  
 
487
  
  
 
229
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Shares used in computing diluted net income (loss) per common share
  
 
15,989
  
  
 
16,114
  
  
 
15,916
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted net income per share
  
$
0.13
  
  
$
0.37
  
  
$
0.10
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Shares excluded in computing diluted net income as those shares would be anti-dilutive
  
 
355
  
  
 
58
  
  
 
304
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
In May 2011, the FASB amended existing rules covering fair value measurement and disclosure to clarify guidance and minimize differences
between GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The new guidance requires us to provide information about valuation techniques and unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements and provide a narrative description
of the sensitivity of Level 3 measurements to changes in unobservable inputs. The guidance is effective on January 1, 2012. We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our results of operations or
financial position.  In June 2011, new guidance was issued pertaining to the presentation of comprehensive income. The new
rule eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in equity. The standard is intended to provide a more consistent method of presenting non-owner transactions that affect the
company’s equity. Under the new guidance, an entity can elect to present items of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. The new guidance is effective for fiscal
years that begin after December 15, 2011. We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance pertaining to the testing of goodwill for impairment which allows an entity
to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Under this new guidance, an entity would not be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless
the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. The changes are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years
beginning after 
  F-16



Table of Contents

December 15, 2011; however, early adoption is permitted. We adopted the new authoritative guidance in the fourth quarter of 2011 in connection with our annual impairment test. The
adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. 
2. Acquisitions and Divestitures 
AlboGraft Distribution Agreement  In March 2009, we entered into a series of agreements with Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (Edwards) to terminate their distribution of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft product line in Europe and
certain other international markets, for which they had exclusive rights through 2011, and to acquire certain assets and rights from Edwards. We paid $3.5 million to Edwards in exchange for this early termination, the purchase of their AlboGraft
customer list, certain licenses and most of their remaining AlboGraft inventory. We allocated the payment to the tangible and intangible assets acquired, and to the settlement of our pre-existing relationship with Edwards, based on the estimated
fair value of each of these elements to the transaction. As such, we recorded $1.0 million of intangible assets, recognized a $1.8 million restructuring charge related to the early termination of the distribution agreement, and $0.7 million of
inventory.  LifeSpan Vascular Graft  In November 2010, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the Angiotech Agreement) with Angiotech Pharmaceuticals (US), Inc., and Angiodevice International GmbH (together, Sellers), to acquire
substantially all the assets associated with the LifeSpan Vascular Graft and related manufacturing business. Assets acquired include inventory, fixed assets, select contractual commitments, permits and approvals, legal rights, and intellectual
property. Other provisions of the Angiotech Agreement include transitional assistance from Sellers and mutual indemnification for losses arising out of or relating to certain breaches of, and misrepresentations under, the Angiotech Agreement.
 The purchase price for this acquisition was $2.8 million dollars. We paid Angiotech $2.5 million at the closing of the
acquisition. We paid the remaining $0.3 million in November 2011. The deferred payments were included in Acquisition-related obligations in the December 31, 2010 consolidated balance sheet. We accounted for the acquisition as a business
combination. The following table summarizes the final purchase accounting for the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition: 
 








 
  
AllocatedFair
Value
 

  

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Current assets
  
$
765
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
209
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
931
  

 Goodwill
  
 
895
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
 
2,800
  

 Total liabilities assumed
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
2,800
  


  
  
  
 
 The goodwill of $0.9 million will be deductible for tax purposes over 15 years. 
  F-17



Table of Contents
Of the $0.9 million of acquired intangible assets, the following table reflects the
allocation of the acquired intangible assets and related estimated useful lives:   












 
  
AllocatedFair
Value
 
  
WeightedAverage
Useful Life
 

  
  

  
  

 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Patents
  
$
863
  
  
 
6.0 years
  

 Customer and contract relationships
  
 
68
  
  
 
4.0 years
  


  
  
  
 
  




 Total intangible assets
  
$
931
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 In a related transaction, on November 30, 2010, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement and a
Transition Agreement (together, the Edwards Agreements), each with Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (Edwards), and certain of Edwards’ affiliates, for an orderly transition of Edwards’ distribution business of the LifeSpan Vascular Graft
in Europe and Japan from Edwards to LeMaitre, and to acquire from Edwards certain assets related to Edwards’ distribution of the product, including inventory, detailed customer lists for Europe and Japan, transfer of certain registrations, and
the LifeSpan trademark. Under the Edwards Agreements, Edwards provided sales and marketing cooperation through assignment of most assignable customer contracts and other transition assistance. 
We paid Edwards $1.0 million on the closing date and paid $0.2 million in March 2011. The deferred payments were included in
Acquisition-related obligations in the December 31, 2010 balance sheet. We allocated the payment to the tangible and intangible assets acquired based on the estimated fair value of each of these elements to the transaction. As such, we recorded
$0.6 million of inventory and $0.5 million of intangible assets. The weighted-average amortization period for these intangibles as of December 31, 2010 is 4.4 years. In addition, we recorded $0.1 million as prepaid transition services which
were amortized over its contractual life of three months.  Cardiva, S.L. Distribution Agreement 
In December 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement with Cardiva, S.L. (Cardiva) to terminate its distribution of our products in
Spain and to acquire certain assets and rights from Cardiva effective as of June 30, 2011. We paid approximately $1.2 million in exchange for this early termination, the purchase of their Spanish customer list for our products, certain customer
contracts, their provision of sales and marketing services, and most of their remaining inventory. We recorded $0.4 million of intangible assets, recognized a $0.5 million restructuring charge related to the early termination of the distribution
agreement, expensed $0.1 of transition services as selling expense, and recorded $0.3 million of inventory. We allocated the payment to the tangible and intangible assets acquired based on the estimated fair value of each of these elements to the
transaction. The weighted-average amortization period for these intangibles as of June 30, 2011 is 5.5 years. Additionally, we entered into a one-year consulting agreement beginning July 1, 2011 with an employee of Cardiva for $0.2 million
which has been paid in full as of December 31, 2011.  Marcom Medical ApS Distribution Agreement 
In December 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement with Marcom Medical ApS (Marcom) to terminate its distribution of our products in
Denmark and to acquire certain assets and rights from Marcom effective as of June 30, 2011. We paid approximately $0.2 million in exchange for this early termination, the purchase of their Danish customer list for our products, certain customer
contracts, and minimal inventory. We have deferred payments of approximately $19,000 which have been included in Acquisition-related obligations in our consolidated balance sheets which become payable on June 30, 2012. We recorded $0.1 million
of intangible assets and recognized a $0.1 million restructuring charge related to the early termination of the distribution agreement. We allocated the payment to the tangible and intangible assets acquired based on the estimated fair value of each
of these elements to the transaction. The weighted-average amortization period for these intangibles as of June 30, 2011 is 2.9 years. 
  F-18



Table of Contents
OptiLock Implantable Port 
On June 1, 2010, we sold our OptiLock Implantable Port product line to Minvasive Ltd. (Minvasive). In exchange for consideration of
approximately $0.2 million, Minvasive received our existing inventory, tangible and intangible assets, and a customer list associated with the product line. Payment terms included $30,000 due at signing, with the remaining balance to be paid in the
form of a royalty of 30% of Minvasive’s OptiLock Implantable Port sales until the total consideration is paid in full. In 2014, any outstanding balance will become due in full. As a result of the transaction, we recorded the estimated present
value of amounts due as a $0.1 million receivable in other long term assets. All royalty payments received from Minvasive will be applied to the receivable, and any payments received in excess of the outstanding receivable balance will be recognized
as a gain on disposition in the periods in which they are received. We have received $60,000 as of December 31, 2011. 
TAArget and UniFit Stent Grafts  On June 30, 2011, we sold our TAArget and UniFit stent graft product lines to Duke Vascular, Inc. (Duke). In exchange for consideration of approximately $0.1 million in cash and a $0.5 million
promissory note, Duke received most of our existing inventory, tangible and intangible assets, and a customer list associated with the product lines. We received the cash payment on June 30, 2011. The $0.5 million promissory note bears interest
at 7% and is payable on June 30, 2012. The promissory note maturity date will accelerate upon Duke raising additional capital or the sale of its business. We recorded the estimated fair value of the promissory note as $0.2 million receivable in
other long term assets. Any payments received in excess of the fair value of the promissory note will be recognized as a gain on disposition in the periods in which they are received. In addition, Duke assumed our future obligations associated with
the UNITE and ENTRUST clinical trials.  We received cash proceeds of $0.1 million and a promissory note that we valued at $0.2
million. We applied these proceeds against the related assets, including $0.1 million of fixed assets, $0.1 million of intangible assets, and $0.4 million of inventory, resulting in a net charge of approximately $0.4 million, which we recorded in
cost of sales during the year ended December 31, 2011.  Endologix Stent Grafts 
On July 6, 2011, we entered into an early termination agreement for our distribution rights of Endologix’s aortic endovascular
products in Europe. Under the terms of the agreement, we received $1.3 million in exchange for the early termination of our distribution agreement on August 31, 2011, certain customer contracts, our provision of sales and marketing services,
and most of our remaining inventory. Previously, we held distribution rights in certain European countries for Endologix’s Powerlink System, and related products, through June 30, 2013. We recognized a gain of $0.7 million upon the
termination of the distribution agreement during the year ended December 31, 2011.  The fair market valuations associated
with the Lifespan, Cardiva, Marcom, and Duke transactions fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, due to the use of significant unobservable inputs to determine fair value. The fair value measurements were calculated using unobservable
inputs, primarily using the income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow method. The amount and timing of future cash flows within our analysis was based on our due diligence models, most recent operational budgets, long range strategic
plans and other estimates. 
  F-19



Table of Contents
3. Inventory 
Inventory consists of the following:   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Raw materials
  
$
2,034
  
  
$
2,219
  

 Work-in-process
  
 
1,308
  
  
 
1,469
  

 Finished products
  
 
4,661
  
  
 
4,687
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total inventory
  
$
8,003
  
  
$
8,375
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

4. Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment consists of the following: 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Computers and equipment
  
$
2,007
  
 
$
2,066
  

 Machinery and equipment
  
 
5,077
  
 
 
6,221
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
2,949
  
 
 
1,205
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross property and equipment
  
 
10,033
  
 
 
9,492
  

 Less accumulated depreciation
  
 
(5,372
) 
 
 
(5,686
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
$
4,661
  
 
$
3,806
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Depreciation expense is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Depreciation expense
  
$
1,047
  
  
$
693
  
  
$
795
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

5. Goodwill and Other Intangibles 
Goodwill consists of the following:   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
11,917
  
  
$
11,022
  

 Additions for acquisitions
  
 
—  
  
  
 
895
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
11,917
  
  
$
11,917
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-20



Table of Contents
Other intangibles consist of the following: 
 




























 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
NetCarryingValue ofIntangibleAssets
 
  
GrossCarryingValue
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
NetCarryingValue ofIntangibleAssets
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Patents
  
$
2,546
  
  
$
909
  
  
$
1,637
  
  
$
3,761
  
  
$
1,529
  
  
$
2,232
  

 Trademarks and technology licenses
  
 
1,154
  
  
 
723
  
  
 
431
  
  
 
1,271
  
  
 
735
  
  
 
536
  

 Customer relationships
  
 
1,528
  
  
 
712
  
  
 
816
  
  
 
1,662
  
  
 
848
  
  
 
814
  

 Other intangible assets
  
 
332
  
  
 
231
  
  
 
101
  
  
 
312
  
  
 
208
  
  
 
104
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total identifiable intangible assets
  
$
5,560
  
  
$
2,575
  
  
$
2,985
  
  
$
7,006
  
  
$
3,320
  
  
$
3,686
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 These assets are being amortized over useful lives ranging from 1 to 15 years. The weighted-average
amortization period for these intangibles as of December 31, 2011, is 4.7 years. Amortization expense is included in general and administrative expense and is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Amortization expense
  
$
990
  
  
$
683
  
  
$
624
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Estimated amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years, based upon the intangible
assets at December 31, 2011, is as follows:   
























 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2013
 
  
2014
 
  
2015
 
  
2016
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Amortization expense
  
$
840
  
  
$
700
  
  
$
550
  
  
$
357
  
  
$
266
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

6. Financing Arrangements 
As part of the purchase of Biomateriali S.r.l, we assumed a loan from the Italian government under a program that
provides funding to certain businesses in Italy through a combination of grants and loans if certain requirements are met. The loan was stated to be payable in ten annual payments through 2018 of principal and interest at an interest rate of 0.74%.
The present value of the loan was recorded as of the date the proceeds were received using our incremental borrowing rate. Interest was being imputed on the loan and the amortization was recorded as interest expense. The Italian government informed
us the loan and grant will become due in full as a result of the Biomateriali S.r.l plant closure. As a result, in December 2011, we incurred approximately $0.1 million of restructuring charges related to additional interest and penalties charges,
and we made the final payment to the Italian government of $0.5 million in December 2011. In 2010, we had previously recorded approximately $0.3 million of restructuring charges related to the expected repayment of the grants, the imputed interest
on the outstanding loan balance, and certain additional interest and penalties. 
  F-21



Table of Contents
7. Accrued Expenses 
Accrued expenses consist of the following: 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Compensation and related taxes
  
$
3,250
  
  
$
4,116
  

 Income and other taxes
  
 
530
  
  
 
802
  

 Factory build-out costs
  
 
—  
  
  
 
791
  

 Restructuring
  
 
101
  
  
 
922
  

 Professional fees
  
 
360
  
  
 
441
  

 Other
  
 
1,298
  
  
 
1,556
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5,539
  
  
$
8,628
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

8. Commitments and Contingencies 
Leases  We conduct certain of our operations in leased facilities, which are accounted for as operating leases. Certain leases include renewal options. In addition, we lease automobiles and equipment under
operating leases. There were no assets held under capital leases at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Rent expense was as follows:   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Rent expense
  
$
1,182
  
  
$
1,089
  
  
$
1,315
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011, the minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable operating leases with
initial or remaining terms of more than one year, for each of the following fiscal years, are as follows:   




























 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2013
 
  
2014
 
  
2015
 
  
2016
 
  
Thereafter
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Operating leases
  
$
1,083
  
  
$
854
  
  
$
734
  
  
$
659
  
  
$
583
  
  
$
462
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Purchase Commitments 
As part of our normal course of business, we have purchase commitments to purchase $6.3 million of inventory through 2016. The purchase
commitments for inventory are to be used in operations over the normal course of business and do not represent excess commitments or loss contracts.  Other Commitments  In 2007, we purchased certain patent applications
and in-process research and development which included earn-out payments associated with the commercialization of The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter in the European Union and the United States as part of the consideration. The earn-out
payments are payable quarterly at approximately the rate of two times sales for the four quarters. The European earn-out period was measured from December 23, 2009 through December 22, 2010. We recorded an intangible asset of approximately
$27,000 related to earn-out payments made on European sales. The United States earn-out period will be measured from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012. We consider the earn-out payments associated with the commercialization of the
products in Europe and the United States to be contingent consideration that will be recorded as additional intangible assets in the periods that the contingency is resolved. In addition, there is a contingent payment of $0.1 million related

  F-22



Table of Contents

to one patent application which is payable upon the issuance of the patent. We consider the payment associated with the patent application approval to be contingent consideration that will be
recorded as additional intangible assets in the periods that the contingency is resolved.  AlboGraft Recall
 In October 2011, we received complaints of two device failures which resulted in a voluntary recall of one production
lot of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft. Subsequently, in February 2012, we received complaints of two additional device failures from a second lot which resulted in a voluntary recall of one additional production lot. We believe that we have isolated
the root cause of these device failures and implemented corrective actions beginning with lots produced from November 2011. However, there can be no assurance that these failures will not reoccur or that other problems will not develop in the
future. As a result of the recalled lots, we recognized $0.2 million of inventory write-offs which we recorded to cost of sales during the year ended December 31, 2011. Also in February 2012, we received an additional complaint on our AlboGraft
Vascular Graft that was apparently unrelated to the previous complaints. Although the root cause of that complaint is still under investigation, it appears to be an isolated manufacturing defect, although there is no assurance that this will prove
to be the case. We were notified by the regulatory agency in the United Kingdom in late February 2012 that they would issue a Medical Device Alert to all hospitals in the United Kingdom advising caution when implanting the AlboGraft Vascular Graft.
Although the Medical Device Alert has not resulted in an additional recall, we believe that such notice adversely affects our reputation and that of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft. 
9. Income Taxes 
Income (loss) before income taxes is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 United States
  
$
3,511
  
  
$
7,171
  
 
$
5,127
  

 Foreign
  
 
241
  
  
 
(3,146
) 
 
 
(2,912
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,752
  
  
$
4,025
  
 
$
2,215
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Certain of our foreign subsidiaries are included in the U.S. tax return as branches but are included as
foreign for purposes of the table above.  The provision (benefit) for income taxes is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Current:
  



  



 




 Federal
  
$
309
  
  
$
147
  
 
$
133
  

 State
  
 
9
  
  
 
60
  
 
 
5
  

 Foreign
  
 
132
  
  
 
185
  
 
 
253
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
450
  
  
 
392
  
 
 
391
  

 Deferred:
  



  



 




 Federal
  
 
831
  
  
 
(2,105
) 
 
 
260
  

 State
  
 
116
  
  
 
(257
) 
 
 
22
  

 Foreign
  
 
212
  
  
 
(18
) 
 
 
(56
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
1,159
  
  
 
(2,380
) 
 
 
226
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Provision (benefit) for income taxes
  
$
1,609
  
  
$
(1,988
) 
 
$
617
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-23



Table of Contents
We have reviewed the tax positions taken, or to be taken, in our tax returns for all tax
years currently open to examination by a taxing authority. As of December 31, 2011, the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits exclusive of interest and penalties was $329,000. We have identified no uncertain tax positions for which it is
reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease within the 12 months ending December 31, 2012. We remain subject to examination until the statute of limitations expires for each
respective tax jurisdiction. The Federal statute of limitations will be open with respect to these tax positions until 2015. A reconciliation of beginning and ending amount of our unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits at the beginning of year
  
$
277
  
  
$
299
  
 
$
299
  

 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax positions taken during the period
  
 
52
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Amount of decreases in the unrecognized tax benefits relating to an indirect IRC Section 199 benefit
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(22
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unrecognized tax benefits at the end of the year
  
$
329
  
  
$
277
  
 
$
299
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Deferred taxes are attributable to the following temporary differences: 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Inventory
  
$
516
  
 
$
418
  

 Net operating loss carryforwards
  
 
3,997
  
 
 
3,830
  

 Tax credit carryforwards
  
 
1,054
  
 
 
822
  

 Reserves and accruals
  
 
150
  
 
 
231
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
—  
  
 
 
33
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
791
  
 
 
1,236
  

 Deferred gain on sale of assets
  
 
160
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
367
  
 
 
400
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
7,035
  
 
 
6,970
  

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Property and equipment
  
 
(810
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other intangibles
  
 
(103
) 
 
 
(63
) 

 Goodwill
  
 
(2,068
) 
 
 
(1,760
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(2,981
) 
 
 
(1,823
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets before valuation allowance
  
 
4,054
  
 
 
5,147
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(4,370
) 
 
 
(4,309
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax asset (liabiltity)
  
$
(316
) 
 
$
838
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax classification
  



 




 Short-term deferred tax asset
  
$
809
  
 
$
1,205
  

 Short-term deferred tax liability
  
 
(142
) 
 
 
(58
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net short-term deferred tax asset (liability)
  
 
667
  
 
 
1,147
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term deferred tax asset
  
 
6
  
 
 
134
  

 Long-term deferred tax liability
  
 
(989
) 
 
 
(443
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net long-term deferred tax asset (liability)
  
 
(983
) 
 
 
(309
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax asset (liability)
  
$
(316
) 
 
$
838
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-24



Table of Contents
We have assessed the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets and
continue to carry a valuation allowance against $4.4 million of foreign deferred tax assets and state credits; based on the weight of available evidence, we believe it is more likely than not such assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance
against our deferred tax assets may require adjustment in the future based on changes in the mix of temporary differences, changes in tax laws, and operating performance. In 2010 we assessed the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred
tax assets in the United States and concluded that we emerged from a cumulative loss position. As a result, we released $3.3 million of our valuation allowance that was previously established against certain U.S. deferred tax assets, which based on
the weight of available evidence; we believed it was more likely than not such assets would be realized.  As of
December 31, 2011, we have state net operating loss carryforwards of $0.3 million that expire at various times through 2029. In addition, we have net operating loss carryforwards in France of $1.1 million that have no expiration, Japan of $1.7
million that begin to expire in 2013 and Italy of $9.3 million of which $7.8 million relates to our Biomateriali subsidiary which was dissolved in March 2012 and $1.5 million related to our Italian sales office of which $0.6 million does not expire
and $0.9 million that begin to expire in 2013. We also have Federal research and development tax credit carryforwards and alternative minimum tax credits of approximately $0.7 million and state tax credit carryforwards of approximately $0.6 million
that are available to reduce future tax liabilities, which expire at various dates through 2031, or can be carried forward indefinitely. Included in the research and development credit carryforwards are stock option deductions of approximately $0.6
million. The benefit of these tax deductions will be credited to additional paid-in capital when we receive a cash benefit from the stock options being utilized. Ownership changes, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, may limit the amount of net
operating losses and research and experimentation credit carryforwards that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income and taxes payable.  We consider undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested; therefore, no amount for U.S. income tax has been provided. In the event of distribution of those earnings in
the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to both U.S. income taxes, subject to an adjustment, if any, for foreign tax credits, and foreign withholding taxes payable to certain foreign tax authorities. 
A reconciliation of the Federal statutory rate to our effective tax rate is as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Federal statutory rate
  
 
34.0
% 
 
 
34.0
% 
 
 
34.0
% 

 State tax, net of federal benefit
  
 
1.7
% 
 
 
1.8
% 
 
 
1.2
% 

 Effect of foreign taxes
  
 
(1.6
%) 
 
 
(0.8
%) 
 
 
2.3
% 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
3.6
% 
 
 
(87.7
%) 
 
 
(20.1
%) 

 Permanent differences
  
 
6.8
% 
 
 
6.4
% 
 
 
9.3
% 

 Other
  
 
(1.6
%) 
 
 
(3.1
%) 
 
 
1.2
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate
  
 
42.9
% 
 
 
(49.4
%) 
 
 
27.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 We are not currently under audit in any tax jurisdictions. As of December 31, 2011, a summary of the
tax years that remain subject to examination in our most significant tax jurisdictions are:   








 United States—Federal
  
 
2008 and forward
  

 Germany
  
 
2007 and forward
  

 Italy
  
 
2006 and forward
  

 Japan
  
 
2005 and forward
  

  F-25



Table of Contents
10. Stockholders’ Equity 
Stock Award Plans  Under our 1997, 1998, 2000, and 2004 stock option plans, we authorized for the granting of options in the form of incentive stock options or non-qualified stock options to employees, directors, and
consultants to purchase up to 1,688,702 shares of common stock. The stock options provide the holder the right to purchase common stock at a specific exercise price and the expected term will not exceed ten years. Incentive stock options are
required to be issued at not less than fair market value at the date of the grant and generally vest over four or five years. The term of the options is determined by our Board of Directors but in no event will exceed ten years from date of grant,
except with respect to one non-qualified option issued under our 1997 stock option plan.  In May 2006 we approved a 2006 Stock
Option and Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan), which became effective upon the initial public offering. In 2010 we amended the 2006 Plan to increase the aggregate pool of available shares to 3,000,000 of common stock. The plan allows for granting of
incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, RSUs, unrestricted stock awards, and deferred stock awards to our officers, employees, directors, and consultants. In connection with the adoption of the 2006 Plan, no
further option grants are permitted under the 1997, 1998, 2000, and 2004 stock option plans and any expirations, cancellations, or terminations under the previous plans are available for issuance under the 2006 Plan. We may satisfy awards upon
exercise of stock options or RSUs with either newly issued or treasury shares. The total number of shares currently authorized for stock award plans is 4,618,003 of which approximately 1,210,715 remain available for grant as of December 31,
2011.  We have computed the fair value of employee stock options using the following weighted average assumptions: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Dividend yield
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
0.0
% 

 Volatility
  
 
66.1
% 
 
 
72.1
% 
 
 
80.5
% 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
1.4
% 
 
 
1.6
% 
 
 
2.2
% 

 Weighted average expected option term (in years)
  
 
4.8
  
 
 
4.8
  
 
 
4.5
  

 Weighted average fair value per share of options granted
  
$
3.57
  
 
$
3.43
  
 
$
1.88
  

 Aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised
  
$
321,584
  
 
$
343,185
  
 
$
67,951
  
 A summary of option activity as of December 31, 2011 and the year then ended is presented below:
  




















 
  
Number ofShares
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
(in years)
 
  
 
 

 Balance outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,902,936
  
 
$
5.32
  
  
 
5.77
  
  
$
4,444,950
  

 Granted(1)
  
 
244,077
  
 
$
7.07
  
  



  
$
—  
  

 Exercised(2)
  
 
(56,751
) 
 
$
1.21
  
  



  
$
321,584
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(72,924
) 
 
$
8.41
  
  



  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Balance outstanding at December 31, 2011(3)
  
 
2,017,338
  
 
$
5.54
  
  
 
4.80
  
  
$
3,057,342
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Vested and exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,280,534
  
 
$
5.76
  
  
 
4.71
  
  
$
2,218,388
  

 Expected to vest at December 31, 2011(4)
  
 
542,581
  
 
$
4.65
  
  
 
4.86
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,823,115
  
 



  



  
$
2,218,388
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price and the closing price of our stock on the day of grant. 
  F-26



Table of Contents


(2)
The aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price and the closing price of our stock on the day of exercise. 


(3)
The aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price and $5.92, the closing price of our stock on December 31, 2011, for all
in-the-money options outstanding. 


(4)
Options outstanding that are expected to vest are net of estimated future option forfeitures in accordance with the provisions set forth by the FASB.
 Information about stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2011, is as follows:
  
























 
  
Options Outstanding
 
  
Options Exercisable
 

 Range of Exercise Prices
  
Outstandingas ofDecember 31,2011
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractualLife
 
  
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
Shares
 
  
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 

 $  0.00 – $  1.50
  
 
204,354
  
  
 
15.42
  
  
$
0.10
  
  
 
204,354
  
  
$
0.10
  

 $  1.51 – $  3.00
  
 
246,608
  
  
 
4.27
  
  
$
3.00
  
  
 
108,188
  
  
$
3.00
  

 $  3.01 – $  4.50
  
 
429,709
  
  
 
3.01
  
  
$
3.31
  
  
 
271,274
  
  
$
3.31
  

 $  4.51 – $  6.00
  
 
308,284
  
  
 
4.48
  
  
$
5.84
  
  
 
122,325
  
  
$
5.89
  

 $  6.01 – $  7.50
  
 
435,341
  
  
 
3.97
  
  
$
7.06
  
  
 
181,351
  
  
$
7.09
  

 $  7.51 – $  9.00
  
 
139,627
  
  
 
1.70
  
  
$
8.31
  
  
 
139,627
  
  
$
8.31
  

 $  9.01 – $10.50
  
 
23,626
  
  
 
2.76
  
  
$
10.45
  
  
 
23,626
  
  
$
10.45
  

 $10.51 – $12.37
  
 
229,789
  
  
 
3.41
  
  
$
11.81
  
  
 
229,789
  
  
$
11.81
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  





  
 
2,017,338
  
  
 
4.80
  
  
$
5.54
  
  
 
1,280,534
  
  
$
5.76
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  



 Restricted Stock Units 
A summary of our RSU activity, which is subject to fair value accounting requirements, is as follows: 
 












 
  
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageGrantDate FairValue
 

 Balance outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
477,522
  
 
$
4.07
  

 Granted
  
 
88,079
  
 
$
7.10
  

 Vested(1)
  
 
(129,203
) 
 
$
4.11
  

 Canceled
  
 
(106,612
) 
 
$
4.40
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Balance outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
329,786
  
 
$
4.76
  


  
  
  
 
 



  


(1)
The number of RSUs vested includes the shares that we withheld on behalf of employees to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements.
 The fair values of the RSUs that vested during 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $0.9 million, $0.5 million, and $0.6
million, respectively.  We repurchase shares of our common stock in order to cover any minimum tax withholding liability
associated with RSU vestings. A summary of our repurchases is as follows:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Shares of common stock repurchased
  
 
45,175
  
  
 
48,450
  

 Per share repurchase price
  
$
6.83
  
  
$
5.59
  

 Aggregage purchase price
  
$
308,000
  
  
$
271,000
  

  F-27



Table of Contents
Stock-based Compensation 
The components of stock-based compensation expense included in the consolidated statements of operations are as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Stock option awards to employees
  
$
591
  
  
$
436
  
  
$
300
  

 Restricted common stock awards
  
 
506
  
  
 
531
  
  
 
685
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total stock-based compensation
  
$
1,097
  
  
$
967
  
  
$
985
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We expect to record the unamortized portion of share-based compensation expense of $2.3 million for
existing stock options and RSUs outstanding at December 31, 2011, over a weighted-average period of 3.2 years. 
Stock Repurchase Plan  In July 2009, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 million of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. In October 2009,
our Board of Directors increased this amount to $2.0 million, and in July 2010, our Board of Directors further increased this amount to $5.0 million. In November 2011, our Board of Directors further increased this amount to $10.0 million and
extended the program through December 31, 2013. The timing and number of any shares repurchased will be determined based on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. Repurchases may also be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan, which
would permit shares to be repurchased when we might otherwise be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time and will conclude no later than December 31, 2013,
unless otherwise extended by our Board of Directors. The repurchase program is being funded using our available cash and cash equivalents. We repurchased 300,326 shares for $1.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2011. We repurchased
378,528 shares for $2.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2010. We had the authority to purchase up to an additional $5.3 million of common stock under the repurchase program as of December 31, 2011. 
Dividends  On February 24, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a policy for the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock of $0.02 per share. Future declarations of quarterly dividends and the
establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The dividend activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 is as follows: 
 














 Record Date
  
 Payment Date
  
Per Share Amount
 
  
Dividend Payment
 

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 

 March 22, 2011
  
April 5, 2011
  
$
0.02
  
  
$
309
  

 May 20, 2011
  
June 6, 2011
  
$
0.02
  
  
$
310
  

 August 19, 2011
  
September 6, 2011
  
$
0.02
  
  
$
310
  

 November 23, 2011
  
December 6, 2011
  
$
0.02
  
  
$
308
  
 On February 23, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock
of $0.025 per share payable on April 3, 2012, to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 20, 2012, which will total approximately $0.4 million. 
11. Profit-Sharing Plan 
We offer a 401(k) profit-sharing plan (the Plan) covering eligible U.S. employees to make tax deferred contributions, a
portion of which are matched by us. We may make discretionary profit sharing contributions to 
  F-28



Table of Contents

the Plan in an amount determined by our Board of Directors. Our contributions vest ratably over six years of employment and amounted to approximately $0.1 million for 2011, $0.2 million for 2010,
and $0.1 million for 2009. Effective April 1, 2011, we ceased our discretionary matching on employee contributions. 
12. Restructuring Charges 
In March 2009, we incurred $1.8 million of restructuring charges, related to the termination of our Biomateriali
subsidiary’s distribution agreement with Edward Lifesciences as discussed in Note 2.  In October 2010, we adopted a
reorganization plan (the Biomateriali Plan) that is designed to eliminate redundant costs resulting from our 2007 acquisition of Biomateriali and to improve efficiencies in our manufacturing operations. We transitioned the production of our
AlboGraft Vascular Graft to our existing corporate headquarters in Burlington, Massachusetts. The Biomateriali Plan provided for the termination of 29 employees at our Biomaterial subsidiary, relocation of manufacturing equipment, the eventual
dissolution of our Biomateriali subsidiary, and the hiring of additional employees to staff the required functions in Burlington. In 2010, we incurred $1.4 million of severance charges, of which $0.9 million was paid in December 2010, $0.3 million
of charges related to the repayment of grants and loans received from the Italian government associated with business incentive programs for the Biomateriali facility (see Note 6), and $0.1 million of charges related to the abandonment of fixed
assets and legal fees associated with the negotiation of the severance agreements. In 2011, we incurred $0.3 million of charges associated with the transfer of manufacturing equipment to our Burlington factory and $0.7 million of non-cash charges
related to the write-down of an asset for deferred rent, which was triggered by our exit of the Biomateriali facility in March 2011, and $0.1 million related to the repayment of grants and loans received from the Italian government associated with
business incentive programs for the Biomateriali facility. We paid $0.4 million of severance related charges in 2011 and paid remaining $0.2 million in February 2012. We made the final payment to the Italian government of $0.5 million in December
2011. In March 2012, we completed the Biomateriali liquidation and dissolution process.  In May 2011, we adopted a
reorganization plan (the LifeSpan Plan) that is designed to eliminate redundant costs resulting from our 2010 acquisition of the LifeSpan vascular graft and to improve efficiencies in our manufacturing operations. We have transitioned the production
of our LifeSpan vascular graft from Laguna Hills, California to our existing corporate headquarters in Burlington, Massachusetts. The LifeSpan Plan resulted in the termination of 7 employees at the Laguna Hills facility, relocation of manufacturing
equipment, and the hiring of approximately 4 employees to staff the required functions in Burlington. We incurred approximately $0.1 million related to the closure of the Laguna Hills facility and the related relocation of the manufacturing
equipment during the year ended December 31, 2011. We incurred approximately $33,000 of severance charges related to this project during year ended December 31, 2011. 
On June 30, 2011, we terminated our relationship with our Spanish distributor resulting in a contract termination charge of $0.5
million which we recorded as restructuring charges (see Note 2 for further details regarding the transaction).  On
June 30, 2011, we terminated our relationship with our Danish distributor resulting in a contract termination charge of $0.1 million which we recorded as restructuring charges (see Note 2 for further details regarding the transaction).
 In July 2011, we adopted a reorganization plan of our European administrative and stent graft sales personnel as a result of
our exit from our stent graft business. We terminated 6 employees and recorded severance charges of $0.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. The final severance payments were made in March 2012. 
  F-29



Table of Contents
The components of the restructuring charges are as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Distributor termination charges
  
$
572
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,777
  

 Transfer of manufacturing equipment
  
 
446
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Employee severance costs
  
 
291
  
  
 
1,431
  
  
 
—  
  

 Italian government loan and grant termination charge
  
 
79
  
  
 
250
  
  
 
—  
  

 Non cash asset write-off
  
 
732
  
  
 
108
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
41
  
  
 
27
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,161
  
  
$
1,816
  
  
$
1,777
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Activity related to accrued restructuring costs is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Balance at beginning of year
  
$
922
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
83
  

 Plus:
  



  



  




 Current year restructuring costs
  
 
2,161
  
  
 
1,816
  
  
 
1,777
  

 Other
  
 
—  
  
  
 
155
  
  
 
—  
  

 Less:
  



  



  




 Payment for termination of contractual obligations
  
 
572
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,777
  

 Payment of employee severance costs
  
 
680
  
  
 
941
  
  
 
83
  

 Payment related transfer of manufacturing equipment
  
 
446
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Payment of Italian loan and grant
  
 
469
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
83
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Non-cash fixed asset write-off
  
 
732
  
  
 
108
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at end of year
  
$
101
  
  
$
922
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

13. Segment and Enterprise-wide Disclosures 
The FASB establishes standards for reporting information regarding operating segments in annual financial statements.
Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise about which separate, discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision-maker in making decisions on how to allocate resources and assess
performance. We view our operations and manage our business as one operating segment. No discrete operating information other than product sales is prepared by us, except by geographic location, for local reporting purposes. 
Upon our divestiture of the stent graft product lines, we reorganized our product categories from “Vascular”,
“Endovascular”, and “General Surgery” to “Open Vascular” and “Endovascular and Other” as we re-focused our portfolio and sales channel on open vascular products. Net sales in these product categories were as
follows:   
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Open Vascular
  
$
44,408
  
  
$
40,022
  
  
$
34,265
  

 Endovascular and Other
  
 
13,277
  
  
 
16,038
  
  
 
16,643
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net sales
  
$
57,685
  
  
$
56,060
  
  
$
50,908
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-30



Table of Contents
Most of our revenues were generated in the United States, Europe, and Japan, and
substantially all of our assets are located in the United States. We analyze our sales using a number of approaches, including sales by legal entity. Our German subsidiary (LeMaitre Vascular GmbH) records all sales in Europe excluding direct sales
in France (LeMaitre Vascular SAS); Italy (LeMaitre Vascular S.r.l.); and Spain (LeMaitre Vascular Spain SL) beginning July 1, 2011, and to distributors worldwide, excluding distributor sales in North, South and Central America (LeMaitre
Vascular, Inc.) France (LeMaitre Vascular SAS), Portugal (LeMaitre Vascular SL), and Korea and Taiwan (LeMaitre Vascular GK). Net sales to unaffiliated customers by legal entity were as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 LeMaitre Vascular, Inc.
  
$
36,958
  
  
$
34,575
  
  
$
29,420
  

 LeMaitre Vascular GmbH
  
 
13,845
  
  
 
15,382
  
  
 
15,802
  

 Other
  
 
6,882
  
  
 
6,103
  
  
 
5,686
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net sales
  
$
57,685
  
  
$
56,060
  
  
$
50,908
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Total property and equipment held by legal entity were as follows: 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 LeMaitre Vascular, Inc.
  
$
4,241
  
  
$
3,188
  

 LeMaitre Vascular GmbH
  
 
253
  
  
 
268
  

 Other
  
 
167
  
  
 
350
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total property and equipment
  
$
4,661
  
  
$
3,806
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

14. Supplemental Cash Flow Information 
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information are as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Cash paid for income taxes, net
  
$
717
  
  
$
835
  
  
$
431
  

 Supplemental non-cash financing activities:
  



  



  




 Common stock repurchased for RSU tax withholdings
  
 
308
  
  
 
271
  
  
 
165
  

15. Fair Value Measurements 
The fair value accounting guidance requires that assets and liabilities carried at fair value be classified and
disclosed in one of the following three categories:   


 
•
 
 Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
 


 
•
 
 Level 2—Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active
markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. 
 


 
•
 
 Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or
liabilities. This includes certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs. 
  F-31



Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2011, we had cash equivalents in a money market fund that was valued
using Level 1 inputs (quoted market prices for identical assets) at a fair value of $17.4 million.  We had no Level 2 or Level
3 assets being measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2011. As discussed in Notes 1 and 2, several measurements of acquisition-related assets and impairments of intangible assets were measured using Level 3 techniques.

16. Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) 
 




















 
  
Three months ended
 

 2011
  
March 31
 
 
June 30
 
  
September 30
 
  
December 31
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Total net sales
  
$
14,598
  
 
$
15,112
  
  
$
14,564
  
  
$
13,411
  

 Gross profit
  
 
10,151
  
 
 
10,370
  
  
 
10,183
  
  
 
9,523
  

 Income (loss) from operations
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
897
  
  
 
1,991
  
  
 
832
  

 Net income
  
 
64
  
 
 
519
  
  
 
1,214
  
  
 
346
  

 Net income available to common stockholders:
  



 



  



  




 Basic
  
$
—  
  
 
$
0.03
  
  
$
0.08
  
  
$
0.02
  

 Diluted
  
$
—  
  
 
$
0.03
  
  
$
0.08
  
  
$
0.02
  
  




















 
  
Three months ended
 

 2010
  
March 31
 
  
June 30
 
  
September 30
 
  
December 31
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Total net sales
  
$
13,815
  
  
$
14,158
  
  
$
13,656
  
  
$
14,431
  

 Gross profit
  
 
10,318
  
  
 
10,656
  
  
 
10,398
  
  
 
10,347
  

 Income (loss) from operations
  
 
1,270
  
  
 
2,008
  
  
 
2,032
  
  
 
(1,295
) 

 Net income
  
 
1,021
  
  
 
1,511
  
  
 
1,517
  
  
 
1,964
  

 Net income available to common stockholders:
  



  



  



  




 Basic
  
$
0.07
  
  
$
0.10
  
  
$
0.10
  
  
$
0.13
  

 Diluted
  
$
0.06
  
  
$
0.09
  
  
$
0.09
  
  
$
0.12
  

  F-32



Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 


















 ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Description
  
Incorporated By Reference
 
  
 

  
  
Form
  
Date
 
  
Number
 
  
FiledHerewith








  3.1
  
Amended and Restated By-laws of the Registrant
  
S-1/A
  
 
5/26/06
  
  
 
3.1  
  
  









  3.2
  
Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
  
10-K
  
 
3/29/10
  
  
 
3.2  
  
  









  4.1
  
Specimen Certificate evidencing shares of common stock
  
S-1/A
  
 
6/22/06
  
  
 
4.1  
  
  









10.1
  
Northwest Park Lease dated March 31, 2003, by and between the Registrant and Roger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, as
amended
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.1  
  
  









10.2
  
Registration Rights Agreement dated June 17, 1998, by and between the Registrant and Housatonic Equity Investors, L.P.
  
S-1/A
  
 
5/26/06
  
  
 
10.2  
  
  









10.5
  
License Agreement dated February 11, 1992, by and between United States Surgical Corporation and Spinnaker R&D Associates, as amended
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.5  
  
  









10.6
  
Side Letter Agreement dated January 30, 2004, by and between the Registrant and Spinnaker R&D Associates
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.6  
  
  









10.7†
  
Executive Retention and Severance Agreement dated October 10, 2005, by and between the Registrant and George W. LeMaitre
  
S-1/A
  
 
5/26/06
  
  
 
10.7  
  
  









10.8†
  
Managing Director Employment Agreement dated October 1, 2008, by and between LeMaitre Vascular GmbH and Peter Gebauer, as amended
  
10-K
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.8  
  
  









10.9†
  
Employment Agreement dated June 20, 2006, by and between the Registrant and David Roberts
  
S-1/A
  
 
6/22/06
  
  
 
10.24
  
  









10.10†
  
Employment Agreement dated April 20, 2006, by and between the Registrant and Joseph P. Pellegrino
  
S-1/A
  
 
6/22/06
  
  
 
10.10
  
  









10.11†
  
1997 Stock Option Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.11
  
  









10.12†
  
1998 Stock Option Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.12
  
  









10.13†
  
2000 Stock Option Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.13
  
  









10.14†
  
2004 Stock Option Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
S-1
  
 
4/25/06
  
  
 
10.14
  
  









10.15†
  
Second Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Option and Incentive Plan and form of agreements thereunder
  
8-K
  
 
6/18/10
  
  
 
10.1
  
  









10.16†
  
Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and its directors and executive officers
  
S-1/A
  
 
5/26/06
  
  
 
10.17
  
  









10.17†
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Registrant’s 2006 Stock Option and Incentive Plan
  
8-K
  
 
12/26/06
  
  
 
99.1
  
  









10.18†
  
Management Incentive Compensation Plan
  
8-K
  
 
4/27/07
  
  
 
10.1
  
  









10.19
  
Second Amendment of Lease dated May 21, 2007, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
8-K
  
 
6/15/07
  
  
 
10.1
  
  









10.20
  
Third Amendment of Lease dated February 26, 2008, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
8-K
  
 
4/10/08
  
  
 
10.1
  
  



Table of Contents






















 ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Description
  
Incorporated By Reference
 
  
 
 

  
  
Form
 
  
Date
 
  
Number
 
  
FiledHerewith
 








  10.21
  
Fourth Amendment of Lease dated October 31, 2008, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
 
10-K
  
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.36
  
  











  10.22†
  
First Amendment to Executive Retention and Severance Agreement dated December 23, 2008, by and between the Registrant and George W. LeMaitre
  
 
10-K
  
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.37
  
  











  10.23†
  
First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated December 19, 2008, by and between the Registrant and David Roberts
  
 
10-K
  
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.38
  
  











  10.24†
  
First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated December 19, 2008, by and between the Registrant and Joseph P. Pellegrino
  
 
10-K
  
  
 
3/31/09
  
  
 
10.39
  
  











  10.25
  
Fifth Amendment of Lease dated March 23, 2010, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
 
10-K
  
  
 
3/29/10
  
  
 
10.33
  
  











  10.26
  
Northwest Park Lease dated March 23, 2010, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and Registrant
  
 
10-K
  
  
 
3/29/10
  
  
 
10.34
  
  











  10.27
  
Director Compensation Policy
  



  



  



  
 
X
  








  10.28
  
First Amendment to Northwest Park Lease dated September 14, 2010, by and between Rodger P. Nordblom and Peter C. Nordblom, as Trustees of Northwest Associates, and
Registrant
  



  



  



  
 
X
  








  10.29
  
Second Amendment to Northwest Park Lease dated October 31, 2011, by and between NWP Building 4 LLC, as successor-in-interest to Trustees of Northwest Associates, and
Registrant
  



  



  



  
 
X
  








  21.1
  
List of Subsidiaries
  



  



  



  
 
X
  








  23.1
  
Consent of Ernst & Young LLP
  



  



  



  
 
X
  








  31.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a)
  



  



  



  
 
X
  








  31.2
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a)
  



  



  



  
 
X
  








  32.1*
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350 of Chapter 36 of Title 18 of the United States
Code (18 U.S.C. §1350)
  



  



  



  
 
X
  








  32.2*
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350 of Chapter 36 of Title 18 of the United States
Code (18 U.S.C. §1350)
  



  



  



  
 
X
  








101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document.
  



  



  



  











101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
  



  



  



  





Table of Contents














 ExhibitNumber
  
 Exhibit Description
  
Incorporated ByReference
  
 

  
  
Form
  
Date
  
Number
  
FiledHerewith








101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  









101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  









101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  









101.PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  

  


†
Indicates a management contract or any compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement. 


*
 The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 and 32.2 that accompany this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference
into any filing of LeMaitre Vascular, Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-K, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. 



