
10-K
1
d263218d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
 (Mark One)   


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
 


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from             to
              Commission File Number: 001-34857
    
GOLD RESOURCE CORPORATION  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   
   






Colorado
 
84-1473173

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 2886 Carriage Manor Point, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80906 
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)  Registrant’s telephone number including area code: (303) 320-7708 
Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: 
   
 






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $0.001 par value
 
NYSE Amex
 Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: 
None   
  Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities  Act.     Yes   x    No   ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.     Yes   x     No   ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to post such files).    
Yes   x     No   ¨  Indicate by checkmark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.    ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act.   










Larger accelerated filer
 
x
  
Accelerated filer
 
¨






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes  ¨ No  x  The aggregate market value of the common stock of Gold Resource Corporation held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2011, the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second
fiscal quarter, was $797,943,136 based on the closing price of the common stock of $24.93 as reported on the NYSE Amex, LLC.  As of
February 28, 2012 there were 52,902,620 shares of common stock outstanding.   
  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: Portions of the Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A for the registrant’s
annual meeting of shareholders for 2012 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.   
   


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 








  
  
 
  
Page


  
PART I 
  






ITEM 1:
  
BUSINESS
  
1

ITEM 1A:
  
RISK FACTORS
  
3

ITEM 1B:
  
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
  
10

ITEM 2:
  
PROPERTIES
  
10

ITEM 3:
  
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
  
16

ITEM 4:
  
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
  
17






  
PART II
  






ITEM 5:
  
MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
  
17

ITEM 6:
  
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
  
20

ITEM 7:
  
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION
  
21

ITEM 7A:
  
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
  
31

ITEM 8:
  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
  
34

ITEM 9:
  
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
  
62

ITEM 9A:
  
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
  
62

ITEM 9B:
  
OTHER INFORMATION
  
62






  
PART III
  






ITEM 10:
  
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
  
62

ITEM 11:
  
EXECUTIVE AND DIRECTOR COMPENSATION
  
62

ITEM 12:
  
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
  
62

ITEM 13:
  
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
  
62

ITEM 14:
  
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
  
62






  
PART IV
  






ITEM 15:
  
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
  
63

SIGNATURES
  
65

EXHIBIT INDEX
  
66
 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  Descriptions of agreements or other documents contained in this report are intended as summaries and are not necessarily complete. Please refer to the agreements or other documents filed or
incorporated herein by reference as exhibits. Please see the exhibit index at the end of this report for a complete list of those exhibits. 


Table of Contents
SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The statements contained in this report that
are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. When used in this report, the words “plan,”
“target,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend” and “expect” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements
include, without limitation, the statements regarding Gold Resource Corporation’s strategy, future plans for production, future expenses and costs, future liquidity and capital resources, and estimates of mineralized material. All
forward-looking statements in this report are based upon information available to Gold Resource Corporation on the date of this report, and the company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Forward looking
statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate. Gold Resource Corporation’s actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this
report. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the “Item 1A. Risk Factors” section of this Form 10-K. 
In addition to the specific factors identified under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report, other uncertainties that
could affect the accuracy of forward-looking statements include:   


 
•
 
 Decisions of foreign countries and banks within those countries; 
 


 
•
 
 Unexpected changes in business and economic conditions, including the rate of inflation; 
 


 
•
 
 Changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates; 
 


 
•
 
 Timing and amount of production, if any;   


 
•
 
 Technological changes in the mining industry;   


 
•
 
 Our costs;   


 
•
 
 Changes in exploration and overhead costs;   


 
•
 
 Access and availability of materials, equipment, supplies, labor and supervision, power and water; 
 


 
•
 
 Results of current and future feasibility studies;   


 
•
 
 The level of demand for our products;   


 
•
 
 Changes in our business strategy, plans and goals;   


 
•
 
 Interpretation of drill hole results and the geology, grade and continuity of mineralization; 
 


 
•
 
 The uncertainty of mineralized material estimates and timing of development expenditures; and 
 


 
•
 
 Commodity price fluctuations.  This list, together with the factors identified under “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” is not exhaustive of the factors that may affect any of our forward-looking statements. You should read
this report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. These forward-looking statements represent our beliefs, expectations and opinions only as of the date of this
report. We do not intend to update these forward looking statements except as required by law. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. 


Table of Contents
PART I 
 


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS  History and Organization
 We are currently engaged in the exploration for and production of gold and silver in Mexico. We were organized under
the laws of the State of Colorado in 1998. We pursue exploration of gold and silver projects, both in and outside of Mexico, that we believe feature low operating costs and have the potential to produce a high return on the capital
invested. We hold a 100% interest in six properties in Mexico’s southern State of Oaxaca which we refer to as our Oaxaca Mining Unit. See “Item 2. Properties” for more information about our
properties. We completed our initial public offering (“IPO”) in August 2006. Since that time, we have raised
additional capital pursuant to several private placements of our common stock. We used the proceeds of our IPO and additional private placements to conduct exploration activities at the El Aguila property. Based on our successful
exploration efforts, we decided on April 11, 2007 to move forward to construct a mill and a mine at the El Aguila Project. We used the funds from subsequent private placements to build the Project. We declared commercial
production at the El Aguila Project on July 1, 2010. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” for more information. The El Aguila Project
includes approximately 20,055 hectares of mining concessions, an access road from a major highway, haul roads, a mill facility and adjoining buildings, including an assay lab, an open pit and underground mine, tailings pond and other
infrastructure. See “Item 2. Properties” for additional information.  Our principal executive
offices are located 2886 Carriage Manor Point, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80906, and our telephone number is (303) 320-7708. Our operations in Mexico are conducted through our wholly-owned Mexican subsidiaries, Don David Gold S.A. de C.V.
and Golden Trump Resources S.A. de C.V. We maintain a website at www.goldresourcecorp.com and through a link on our website you can view the periodic filings that we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
 Please refer to page 15 of this report for a glossary of certain terms used in this report. 
Developments During 2011 
We completed our first full year of commercial production of gold and silver in 2011. Two mines are located at our El Aguila
Project; the El Aguila open pit mine and the La Arista underground mine. Mining at the El Aguila open pit mine was essentially completed in 2010. In the first two months of 2011, we continued to process El Aguila
open pit ore that was stockpiled through the El Aguila mill. We produced metal concentrates with gold as our primary metal product and silver as a by-product.  During late 2010, we commenced development of the La Arista mine, located approximately 2 kilometers from the El Aguila mill, and began mining the La Arista vein
system. Beginning in March 2011 and for the remainder of the year, we processed ore primarily from the La Arista mine, where gold and silver were our primary metal products and copper, lead and zinc were considered by-products. Our focus
during 2011 was the development of the La Arista underground mine and we constructed a primary spiral decline ramp that reached Level 8 by the end of 2011. We began mining and processing ore from mine development activity and from a few
stopes during 2011.  Additionally, in 2011 we completed construction of the second phase of our tailings impoundment facility
using waste material from the open pit mine. We also made improvements to the mill facility by expanding the capacity of our cleaner flotation cells in the flotation circuit.  Commercial Production  During 2011, we produced a total of 66,159 ounces of
gold equivalent from the El Aguila Project at an approximate average cash operating cost of $136 per ounce, net of by-product credits. (See, “Non GAAP Measures” in Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for more information.) We processed an aggregate of 214,215 tonnes of ore with an average grade of 3.43 grams per tonne gold and 357 grams per tonne
silver. See the table titled “Production and Sales Statistics—El Aguila Project” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for detailed
information regarding our production statistics. An anomalous storm in April 2011 flooded the lowest levels of the La Arista underground mine which negatively impacted our mining operations for approximately two months.
  1 


Table of Contents
Exploration  Exploration during 2011 was focused primarily on the El Aguila Project with infill and step out drilling at the La Arista vein system. We also performed exploration at several of our
properties, including commencing a surface exploration program on portions of the Las Margaritas property and a limited drilling campaign at Alta Gracia and El Chamizo. Please see the map of our properties on page 10 for more
information regarding our exploration properties. At Alta Gracia and El Chamizo, we are drilling from the surface at these properties focusing on previously identified drill targets. We are also conducting some underground exploration
and testing at the Alta Gracia property by driving drifts and crosscuts into exposed veins. At the El Rey property, we began to drain and refurbish an existing shaft to facilitate additional exploration and gain access underground to
test a vein system identified from earlier drilling. We also carried out a geophysical survey, called Titan 24, over a large part of the El Aguila Project area which resulted in several very distinct geologic anomalies. However, we have
not established proven or probable reserves as defined in the SEC’s Industry Guide 7 (“Guide 7”) at our El Aguila Project or any of our other properties. See “Item 2. Properties” for additional
information regarding our exploration activities. Dividends  Commencing in July 2010, we declared special dividends for each month until August 2011 when we instituted a regular monthly dividend of $0.05 per share. We declared an aggregate of $0.50 per share
in dividends in 2011. The dividends have been charged against our additional paid in capital and are considered a return of capital dividend. See, “Item 5. Market For Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Purchase of
Equity Securities,” for additional information.   No Proven or Probable Reserves 
We have not yet demonstrated the existence of proven or probable reserves at our El Aguila Project in Oaxaca, Mexico or any of our
other properties. In Guide 7, the SEC defines a “reserve” as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Proven or probable reserves are those
reserves for which (a) quantity is computed and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are spaced so closely that the geologic character is defined and size, shape and depth of mineral content can be established (proven)
or the sites are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced but high enough to assume continuity between observation points (probable). Reserves cannot be considered proven and probable unless and until they are supported by a feasibility
study, indicating that the reserves have had the requisite geologic, technical and economic work performed and are economically and legally extractable.  We have not completed a feasibility study with regard to all or a portion of any of our properties to date. Any mineralized material discovered or produced by us should not be considered proven or
probable reserves. As of December 31, 2011, none of our mineralized material met the definition of proven or probable reserves.
Competitive Business Conditions  The exploration for, and the acquisition of gold and silver properties, are subject to intense competition. Due to our limited capital and personnel, we are at a competitive disadvantage compared to
many other companies with regard to exploration and, if warranted, development of mining properties. Our present limited funding means that our ability to compete for properties to be explored and developed is limited. We believe that
competition for acquiring mineral prospects will continue to be intense in the future.  Government Regulations and Permits 
In connection with mining, milling and exploration activities, we are subject to extensive Mexican federal, state and local laws and
regulations governing the protection of the environment, including laws and regulations relating to protection of air and water quality, hazardous waste management and mine reclamation as well as the protection of endangered or threatened
species. The department responsible for environmental protection in Mexico is SEMARNAT, which is similar to the United States Environmental Protection Agency. SEMARNAT has broad authority to shut down and/or levy fines against facilities
that do not comply with its environmental regulations or standards. Potential areas of environmental consideration for mining companies, including ours, include but are not limited to, acid rock drainage, cyanide containment and handling,
contamination of water courses, dust and noise. 
  2 


Table of Contents
In connection with our mill and mining operations at the El Aguila Project, we have
and will continue to secure various regulatory permits from federal, state and local agencies. These governmental and regulatory permits generally govern the processes being used to operate, the stipulations concerning air quality and water
issues, and the plans and obligations for reclamation of the properties at the conclusion of operations. Regulations require that an environmental impact statement, known in Mexico as a Manifiestacion de Impacto Ambiental
(“MIA”), be prepared by a third-party contractor for submission to SEMARNAT. We have submitted our MIA to SEMARNAT for their review and it has been approved. Studies required to support the MIA include a
detailed analysis of these areas, among others: soil, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural resources and socio-economic impacts. Although the regulatory process in Mexico has a public review component, proof of local community support for a
project is required to gain final MIA approval. We have received the required local community support.  We received a
federal permit granting permission to begin open pit mining at the El Aguila Project from SEMARNAT in August 2009 and commenced mining operations. In December 2009, we also received a permit allowing us to begin developing our
underground mine. We purchased a permitted water well for the mill site at the El Aguila Project. We believe the water provided by this well will normally be adequate to meet the needs for any mining activity for the foreseeable
future, but any extreme seasonal changes may result in limited water.  We have obtained, and will obtain at the appropriate
time, environmental permits, licenses or approvals required for operations. We are not aware of any material violations of environmental permits, licenses or approvals issued with respect to our operations. 
Customers During the
year ended December 31, 2011, 96% of our total sales of metals concentrate were made to Consorcio Minero de Mexico Cormin Mex. S.A. de C.V. (Consorcio) and 4% of our sales were to Beheer, B.V. of Lucerne, Switzerland (Beheer), each a Trafigura
Group Company. In the event that our relationship with Consorcio or Beheer is interrupted for any reason, we believe that we would be able to locate another entity to purchase our metals concentrate and by-product metals. However, any
interruption could temporarily disrupt the sale of our principal products and adversely affect our operating results.  Employees
 We currently have seven full-time employees in the United States, three of which serve as our executive officers. These
individuals devote all of their business time to our affairs. We also engage several financial consultants, including our Chief Financial Officer, who provide us their services as necessary to assist with our administrative and financial
affairs.  In Mexico, through our wholly-owned Mexican subsidiaries, we employ approximately 305 Mexican nationals, including
our El Aguila Project Manager, Exploration Manager and Country Manager. We also use various independent contractors for developing our underground mine, surface exploration drilling and trucking. 
 


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  This
report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, contains forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by several risk factors, including those summarized below: 
Risks Relating to Our Company  We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may not continue to be profitable. We achieved our first year of profitability in 2011 since our inception in 1998. During the fiscal
years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we reported net losses of approximately $23.1 million and $34.1 million, respectively and we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $39.5 million as of December 31, 2011. While we were
profitable in 2011, there is no assurance that we will continue to be profitable in the future. Unexpected interruptions in our mining business may cause us to incur losses or the revenue we generate from production may not be sufficient to fund
continuing operations including exploration and development costs. Our failure to report future profits may adversely affect the price of our common stock and you may lose all or part of your investment.
  3 


Table of Contents
Our existing production is limited to a single mine and any interruptions or
stoppages in our mining activities would adversely affect our revenue. We are presently relying on a single mine to provide ore for processing at our mill facility which contains the mineralized material we sell to fund our operations.
Any interruption in our ability to mine this location, such as a labor strike, natural disaster, or loss of permits would negatively impact our ability to collect revenue in the foreseeable future. Additionally, if we are unable to economically
develop additional mines, we will eventually deplete the ore body and will no longer generate revenue sufficient to fund our operations. A decrease in or cessation of our mining operations would adversely affect our financial performance and may
eventually cause us to cease operations. We have no proven or probable reserves and our decision to commence commercial
production is not based on a study demonstrating economical recovery of any mineral reserves and is therefore inherently risky. Any funds spent by us on exploration or development could be lost. We have not established the presence of
any proven or probable mineral reserves, as defined by the SEC, at any of our properties. Under Guide 7, the SEC has defined a “reserve” as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the
time of the reserve determination. Any mineralized material discovered or produced by us should not be considered proven or probable reserves.  In order to demonstrate the existence of proven or probable reserves, it would be necessary for us to perform additional exploration to demonstrate the existence of sufficient mineralized material with
satisfactory continuity and obtain a positive feasibility study which demonstrates with reasonable certainty that the deposit can be economically and legally extracted and produced. We have not completed a feasibility study with regard to all or a
portion of any of our properties to date. Since we commenced commercial production of mineralized material at the El Aguila Project without a feasibility study, there is inherent uncertainty as to whether the mineralized material can be
economically produced or if so, for what period of time. The absence of proven or probable reserves makes it more likely that our properties may cease to be profitable and that the money we spend on exploration and development may never be
recovered.  Since we have no proven or probable reserves, our investment in mineral properties is not reported as an
asset in our financial statements which may have a negative impact on the price of our stock. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and have
reported substantially all exploration and construction expenditures as expenses until such time, if ever, we are able to establish proven or probable reserves, and expect to continue that practice in the future. If we are able to establish
proven or probable reserves, we would report development expenditures as an asset subject to future amortization using the units-of-production method. Since it is uncertain when, if ever, we will establish proven or probable reserves, it is
uncertain whether we will ever report these types of future capital expenditures as an asset. Accordingly, our historical financial statements report fewer assets and greater expenses than would be the case if we had proven or probable
reserves, which could have a negative impact on our stock price.  Estimates of mineralized material are based on
interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. When making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, such as the El
Aguila Project, we rely upon estimated calculations as to the mineralized material on our properties. Since we have not conducted a feasibility study demonstrating proven or probable reserves, estimates of mineralized material presented in
our press releases and regulatory filings contain less certainty than would be the case if the estimates were made in accordance with the SEC-recognized definition of proven and probable reserves. Until mineralized material is actually mined
and processed, it must be considered an estimate only. These estimates are imprecise and depend on geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot
assure you that these mineralized material estimates will be accurate or that this mineralized material can be mined or processed profitably and any decision to move forward with development is inherently risky. Any material changes in
estimates of mineralized material will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and such property’s return on capital. This risk is increased since we have not received a feasibility study on any of our
properties. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale metallurgical tests will be recovered at production scale. These in-place mineralized material estimates will be diluted in the mining process. 
The volatility of the price of gold and silver could adversely affect our future operations and, if warranted, our ability to
develop our properties. The profitability of our operations, the value of our properties and our ability to raise funding to conduct continued exploration and development, if warranted, are directly related to the market price of gold,
silver and other precious metals. The price of gold may also have a significant influence on the market price of our common stock. Our decision to put a mine into production and to commit the funds necessary for that purpose must be made
long before the first revenue from production would be received. A decrease in the price of gold and silver may prevent our property from being economically mined or result in the write-off of assets whose value is impaired as a result of lower
gold or silver prices. The price of gold and silver is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including inflation, fluctuation of the United States dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, the sale of gold and silver
by central banks, and the political and economic conditions of major gold and silver producing countries throughout the world.
  4 


Table of Contents
The volatility in gold and silver prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets
forth for each of the past five calendar years, the average annual market prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of gold and silver based on the daily London P.M. fix:   
























 Mineral
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Gold
  
$
696.00
  
  
$
872.00
  
  
$
972.00
  
  
$
1,225.00
  
  
$
1,572.00
  

 Silver
  
$
13.38
  
  
$
14.99
  
  
$
14.67
  
  
$
20.19
  
  
$
35.12
  
 The volatility of mineral prices represents a substantial risk which no amount of planning or technical
expertise can fully eliminate. In the event gold prices decline or remain low for prolonged periods of time, we might be unable to develop our properties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash
flows.  We currently do not enter into forward sales, commodity, derivatives or hedging arrangements with respect to our
gold and silver production and as a result we are exposed to the impact of any significant decrease in the price of gold or silver. We sell the gold and silver we are producing at the prevailing market price. Currently, we do not enter
into forward sales, commodity, derivative or hedging arrangements to establish a price in advance for the sale of future gold or silver production, although we may do so in the future. As a result, we may realize the benefit of any short-term
increase in the gold or silver price, but we are not protected against decreases in the gold or silver price, and if the gold or silver price decreases significantly, our revenues may be materially adversely affected. 
If we are unable to achieve gold and silver production levels anticipated from our El Aguila Project, our financial condition and
results of operation will be adversely affected. We have proceeded with the processing of the El Aguila open-pit area ore and the development of the La Arista mine at the El Aguila Project based on estimates of
mineralized material identified in our drilling program and estimates of gold and silver recovery based on test work developed during our scoping study. However, risks related to metallurgy are inherent when working with extractable
minerals. Sales of gold and silver that we realize from future mining activity will be less than anticipated if the mined material does not contain the concentration of gold and silver predicted by our geological exploration. This risk may
be increased since we have not sought or obtained a feasibility study or reserve report with regard to any of our properties. If sales of gold and silver are less than anticipated, we may not be able to recover our investment in our property
and our operations may be adversely affected. Our inability to realize production based on quarterly or annual projections may also adversely affect the price of our common stock and you may lose all or part of your investment. 
Our current property portfolio is limited to a single producing property and our ability to remain profitable over the long term
will depend on our ability to identify, explore and develop additional properties. Gold and silver properties are wasting assets. They eventually become depleted or uneconomical to continue mining. The acquisition of gold and
silver properties and their exploration and development are subject to intense competition. Companies with greater financial resources, larger staff, more experience and more equipment for exploration and development may be in a better position
than us to compete for such mineral properties. If we are unable to find, develop, and economically mine new properties, we most likely will not be profitable on a long term basis and the price of our common stock may suffer. 
Our producing property is subject to a lease in favor of a third party which provides for royalties on production. We
lease our El Aguila property from a third party. Our lease for the El Aguila property provides for a net smelter return royalty of 4% where production is sold in the form of gold/silver dorè and 5% where production is sold
in concentrate form. All of our production to date has been processed and sold as concentrate. The requirement to pay royalties to the owner of the concessions at our El Aguila property, which includes the open pit mine and underground
mine, will reduce our profitability from production of gold or other precious metals.  Since we have a very limited
operating history, investors have little basis to evaluate our ability to operate. We were organized in 1998 and declared commercial production of our first mine less than two years ago. Our activities to date have been focused on
raising financing, exploring our properties and preparing for production at the El Aguila Project. Our mill at the El Aguila Project is still optimizing production and we are presently processing ore using only the flotation
circuit of the mill. We face all of the risks commonly encountered by other businesses that lack an established operating history, including the need for additional capital and personnel, and intense competition. There is no assurance that
our business plan will be successful. 
  5 


Table of Contents
The construction of our underground mine and optimization and continued operation of
our mill are subject to all of the risks inherent in construction, start-up and operations. These risks include potential delays, cost overruns, shortages of material or labor, construction defects, breakdowns and injuries to persons
and property. We expect to engage a combination of American and Mexican subcontractors and material suppliers in connection with the continued development of the El Aguila Project. While we anticipate taking all measures which we
deem reasonable and prudent in connection with construction of the underground mine and the operation of the mill, there is no assurance that the risks described above will not cause delays or cost overruns in connection with such construction or
operation. Any delays would postpone our anticipated receipt of revenue and adversely affect our operations, which in turn may adversely affect the price of our stock.  Our underground mining operations are subject to unique risks. The exploration for minerals and the development and production of mining operations from an underground mine involve a high
level of risk and are often affected by hazards outside of our control. Some of these risks include, but are not limited to, underground fires or floods, fall-of-ground accidents, seismic activity and unexpected geological formations or conditions
including noxious fumes or gases. The occurrence of one or more of these events in connection with our exploration, development, or production activities may result in the death of, or personal injury to, our employees, other personnel or third
parties, the loss of mining equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, monetary losses, deferral or unanticipated fluctuations in production, environmental damage and potential legal liabilities, all of which
may adversely affect our reputation, business, prospects, results of operations and financial position.  Our operations
are subject to permitting requirements which could require us to delay, suspend or terminate our operations. Our operations, including our ongoing exploration drilling program and production at the El Aguila Project, require
permits from the Mexican government. If we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving future permits, our timetable and business plan will be adversely affected. 
Our properties are located in Mexico and are subject to changes in political conditions and regulations in that
country. All of our existing properties are located in Mexico. In the past, Mexico has been subject to political and social instability, changes and uncertainties which may cause changes to existing government regulations affecting
mineral exploration and mining activities. Our mineral exploration and mining activities in Mexico may be adversely affected in varying degrees by changing governmental regulations relating to the mining industry or shifts in political
conditions that increase the costs related to our activities or maintaining our properties. Finally, Mexico’s status as a developing country may make it more difficult for us to obtain required financing for our projects. 
Our business operations may be adversely affected by social and political unrest in Oaxaca or by violence and crime in
Mexico. Our existing properties are all located in the State of Oaxaca, Mexico. Oaxaca City, the capital of the State of Oaxaca, experienced a period of social and political unrest in 2006. Certain civilian groups seeking
political reform staged protests and demonstrations in various locations in Oaxaca City, including schools, government offices and major roadways. Our business operations could be negatively impacted if Oaxaca or other areas of Mexico
experiences another similar event. Additionally, various areas in Mexico are impacted by increasing violence and crime which may lead local residents to resist cooperating with the federal government and outside organizations and also to an
increased military presence in those areas. Our operating activities may be interrupted if we are unable to hire qualified personnel or if we are denied access to the site where our properties are located due to social unrest or increased violence
and crime. We may also be required to make additional expenditures to provide increased security in order to protect property or personnel located at our properties. Significant delays in exploration or increases in expenditures will
likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Changes in legislation
affecting the mining industry could significantly affect our operations. As in other countries, legislation has been introduced in Mexico which would impose a royalty on production from mineral properties. In the event any such
legislation was successfully passed and signed into law, it could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations. 
We do not insure against all of the risks to which we may be subject in our operations. While we currently maintain
insurance against general commercial liability claims and the physical assets at our El Aguila Project, we do not maintain insurance to cover all of the potential risks associated with our operations. We might be subject to liability for
environmental, pollution or other hazards associated with mineral exploration and development, which risks may not be insured against, which may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage, or which we may elect not to insure against because of
premium costs or other reasons. We may also not be insured against interruptions to our operations. Losses from these or other events may cause us to incur significant costs which could materially adversely affect our financial condition
and our ability to fund activities on our property. A significant loss could force us to reduce or terminate our operations. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Our ability to develop our property is subject to the rights of the Ejido (local
inhabitants) to use the surface for agricultural purposes. Our ability to mine minerals is subject to maintaining satisfactory arrangements with the Ejido for access and surface disturbances. Ejidos are groups of
local inhabitants who were granted rights to conduct agricultural activities on the property. We must negotiate and maintain a satisfactory arrangement with these residents in order to disturb or discontinue their rights to farm. While we
have successfully negotiated and signed such agreements related to the El Aguila Project, our inability to maintain these agreements or consummate similar agreements for new projects could impair or impede our ability to successfully mine the
properties.  Competition in the mining industry is intense, and we have limited financial and personnel resources with
which to compete. Competition in the mining industry for desirable properties, investment capital and personnel is intense. Numerous companies headquartered in the United States, Canada and elsewhere throughout the world compete
for properties on a global basis. We are an insignificant participant in the gold mining industry due to our limited financial and personnel resources. We presently operate with a limited number of personnel and we anticipate that we will
compete with other companies in our industry to hire additional qualified personnel which will be required to successfully operate our mine and mill site. We may be unable to attract the necessary investment capital or personnel to fully
explore and if warranted, develop our properties and be unable to acquire other desirable properties.  We may require
significant additional capital to fund our business plan. We will be required to expend significant funds to determine if proven and probable mineral reserves exist at any of our properties, to continue exploration and if warranted,
develop our existing properties and to identify and acquire additional properties to diversify our property portfolio. We have spent and will be required to continue to expend significant amounts of capital for drilling, geological and
geochemical analysis, assaying and feasibility studies with regard to the results of our exploration. We may not benefit from these investments if we are unable to identify commercially exploitable mineralized material. If we do locate
commercially mineable material or decide to put additional properties into production, we may be required to upgrade our milling facility at the El Aguila Project or construct new facilities. 
Our ability to obtain necessary funding for these purposes, in turn, depends upon a number of factors, including the status of the
national and worldwide economy and the price of gold and other precious metals. Capital markets worldwide have been adversely affected by substantial losses by financial institutions, in turn caused by investments in asset-backed
securities. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing, or if we can obtain such financing, such financing may not be on terms that are favorable to us. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or
indefinite postponement of further mining operations or exploration and development and the possible partial or total loss of our potential interest in our properties.  Since most of our expenses are paid in Mexican pesos, and we sell our production in United States dollars, we are subject to adverse changes in currency values that may adversely affect our results
of operation. Our operations in the future could be affected by changes in the value of the Mexican peso against the United States dollar. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies such as the peso against the U.S. dollar
increases expenses and the cost of purchasing capital assets in U.S. dollar terms in Mexico, which can adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. Conversely, depreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies usually decreases operating
costs and capital asset purchases in U.S. dollar terms. The value of cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies also fluctuates with changes in currency exchange rates.
Our activities are subject to significant environmental regulations, which could raise the cost of doing business or adversely
affect our ability to develop our properties. Our mining operations are subject to environmental regulation by SEMARNAT, the environmental protection agency of Mexico. Regulations governing development of new projects or
significant changes to existing projects require that an environmental impact statement, known in Mexico as a Manifiestacion de Impacto Ambiental, be prepared by a third party contractor for submission to SEMARNAT. Studies required to
support this impact statement include a detailed analysis of many subject areas, including soil, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural resources and socio-economic impacts. We may also be required to submit proof of local community support for
a project to obtain final approval. If an environmental impact statement is adverse or if we cannot obtain community support, our ability to develop our properties could be adversely affected. Significant environmental legislation exists
in Mexico, including fines and penalties for spills, release of emissions into the air, seepage and other environmental damage, which fines or penalties could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation. 
The nature of mineral exploration and production activities involves a high degree of risk and the possibility of uninsured
losses. Exploration for and the production of minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risk than many other businesses. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization, and any mineralization

  7 


Table of Contents

discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Our operations are, and any future development or mining operations we may conduct will be, subject to all of
the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for and development of mineral properties, such as, but not limited to:   


 
•
 
 Economically insufficient mineralized material;   


 
•
 
 Fluctuation in production costs that make mining uneconomical; 
 


 
•
 
 Labor disputes;   


 
•
 
 Unanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems; 
 


 
•
 
 Environmental hazards;   


 
•
 
 Water conditions;   


 
•
 
 Difficult surface or underground conditions;   


 
•
 
 Industrial accidents;   


 
•
 
 Metallurgic and other processing problems;   


 
•
 
 Mechanical and equipment performance problems;   


 
•
 
 Failure of pit walls or dams;   


 
•
 
 Unusual or unexpected rock formations;   


 
•
 
 Personal injury, fire, flooding, cave-ins and landslides; and 
 


 
•
 
 Decrease in the value of mineralized material due to lower gold and silver prices. 
Any of these risks can materially and adversely affect, among other things, the development of properties, production quantities and
rates, costs and expenditures, potential revenues and production dates. We currently have limited insurance to guard against some of these risks. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not
likely to be recovered, we would incur a writedown of our investment in these interests. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are not recoverable, or result in additional expenses. 
We depend upon a limited number of personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our
business. If any of our current executive employees or our principal financial consultant were to die, become disabled or leave our company, we would be forced to identify and retain individuals to replace
them. Messrs. William, David and Jason Reid, and Mr. Juan Manuel Flores are our critical employees at this time. Paul E. Oberman is a financial consultant who provides services to us as chief financial officer. There is no
assurance that we can find suitable individuals to replace them or to add to our employee base if that becomes necessary. We are entirely dependent on these individuals as our critical personnel at this time. We have no life insurance on
any individual, and we may be unable to hire a suitable replacement for them on favorable terms, should that become necessary. 
In the event of a dispute regarding title to our property or any facet of our operations, it will likely be necessary for us to
resolve the dispute in Mexico, where we would be faced with unfamiliar laws and procedures. The resolution of disputes in foreign countries can be costly and time consuming, similar to the situation in the United States. However,
in a foreign country, we face the additional burden of understanding unfamiliar laws and procedures. We may not be entitled to a jury trial, as we might be in the United States. Further, to litigate in any foreign country, we would be
faced with the necessity of hiring lawyers and other professionals who are familiar with the foreign laws. For these reasons, we may incur unforeseen losses if we are forced to resolve a dispute in Mexico or any other foreign country.
 We are required to annually evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Under Section 404
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on internal control over financial reporting. Such a report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting
identified by our management. In addition, our evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls will be subject to an annual audit by our independent registered public accounting firm and there is no assurance that they will agree with
our assessment. If we are unable to maintain and to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if we disclose material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered
public accounting firm does not agree with our assessment, you could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 
  8 


Table of Contents
The laws of the State of Colorado and our Articles of Incorporation may protect our
directors from certain types of lawsuits. The laws of the State of Colorado provide that our directors will not be liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors of the
company. Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to indemnify our directors and officers against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law. The exculpation provisions may have the
effect of preventing shareholders from recovering damages against our directors caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. The indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors
and officers against claims, including claims arising out of their negligence, poor judgment, or other circumstances.  Risks Related to Our
Common Stock  Our stock price may be volatile and as a result you could lose all or part of your
investment. In addition to volatility associated with equity securities in general, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: 
 


 
•
 
 Changes in the worldwide price for gold;   


 
•
 
 Disappointing results from our exploration or production efforts; 
 


 
•
 
 Producing at rates lower than those targeted;   


 
•
 
 Weather conditions, including unusually heavy rains;   


 
•
 
 Failure to meet our revenue or profit goals or operating budget; 
 


 
•
 
 Decline in demand for our common stock;   


 
•
 
 Downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or changes in general market conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 Technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; 
 


 
•
 
 Investor perception of our industry or our prospects; and 
 


 
•
 
 General economic trends.  In the last 12 months, the price of our stock has ranged from a low of $15.06 to a high of $31.38. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the
market prices of securities have been highly volatile. These fluctuations are often unrelated to operating performance and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, you may be unable to resell your shares
at a desired price.  The sale of common stock by certain of our shareholders may depress the price of our common stock
due to the limited trading market which exists. Due to a number of factors, including our stage of development and the past history of our common stock trading in the over the counter securities market prior to becoming listed on a
national securities exchange, the trading volume in our common stock has been limited. Trading over the last 90 days has averaged approximately 200,000 shares per day. The sale of a significant amount of common stock by our principal
shareholders, including Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited, may depress the price of our common stock. As a result, you may lose all or a part of your investment.  A small number of existing shareholders own a significant amount of our common stock, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. Our executive
officers and directors beneficially own approximately 18% of our common stock and our largest shareholder owns approximately 28% of our common stock as of February 28, 2012. Under our Articles of Incorporation and Colorado law, the
vote of a majority of the shares outstanding is generally required to approve most shareholder action. As a result, this group may be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes for the foreseeable future, including votes concerning the
election of directors, amendments to our Articles of Incorporation or proposed mergers or other significant corporate transactions. We have no existing agreements or plans for mergers or other corporate transactions that would require a
shareholder vote at this time. However, you should be aware that you may have limited ability to influence the outcome of any vote in the future.  We are subject to the Continued Listing Criteria of the NYSE Amex and our failure to satisfy these criteria may result in delisting of our common stock. Our common stock is currently
listed on the NYSE Amex. In order to maintain the listing, we must maintain certain share prices, financial and share distribution targets, including maintaining a minimum amount of shareholders’ equity and a minimum number of public
shareholders. In addition to objective standards, the NYSE Amex may delist the securities of any issuer if, in its opinion, the issuer’s financial condition and/or operating results appear unsatisfactory; if it appears that the extent of
public distribution or the aggregate market value of the security has become so reduced as to make continued listing on the NYSE Amex inadvisable; if the issuer sells or disposes of principal operating assets or ceases to be an operating company; if
an issuer fails to comply with the NYSE Amex’s listing requirements; if an issuer’s common stock sells at what the NYSE Amex considers a “low selling price” and the issuer fails to correct this via a reverse split of shares after
notification by the NYSE Amex; or if any other event occurs or any condition exists which makes continued listing on the NYSE Amex, in its opinion, inadvisable. 
  9 


Table of Contents
If the NYSE Amex delists our common stock, investors may face material adverse consequences,
including, but not limited to, a lack of trading market for our securities, reduced liquidity, decreased analyst coverage of our securities, and an inability for us to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. 
Issuances of our stock in the future could dilute existing shareholders and adversely affect the market price of our common
stock. We have the authority to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and also to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock without stockholder approval. As of
February 28, 2012, there were 52,902,620 shares of common stock outstanding. Future issuances of our securities could be at prices substantially below the price paid for our common stock by our current shareholders. In addition,
we can issue blocks of our common stock in amounts up to 20% of the then outstanding shares without further shareholder approval. Because we experience lower trading volume in our common stock than many of our larger peers, the issuance of a
significant amount of our common stock may have a disproportionately large impact on our share price compared to larger companies.  Past payments of dividends on our common stock are not indictors of future payments of dividends. As of February 28, 2012, we have declared an instituted cash dividend on our common
stock of $0.05 per share per month. However, our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend on a number of factors, including cash flow, development requirements and strategies, spot gold and silver prices and taxation and general
market conditions. Further, a portion of our cash flow will likely be retained to finance our operations. Any material change in our operations may affect future dividends which may be modified at the discretion of our Board of
Directors.  


ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None.
  


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES  We classify
our mineral properties into two categories: “Operating Properties” and “Exploration Properties”. Operating Properties are properties on which we operate a producing mine and are what we consider a “material” property in
accordance with Guide 7. We currently have an interest in six properties, one Operating Property and five Exploration Properties, in the southern state of Oaxaca, Mexico. All of the properties except the Solaga property are located in what is
known as the San Jose structural corridor, which runs north 70 west. Our properties comprise 48 continuous kilometers of this structural corridor, which spans three historic mining districts in Oaxaca. 
The map below shows the general location of our six properties: 
  


  10 


Table of Contents
Operating Properties  The El Aguila Project  Background 
Effective October 14, 2002, we leased three mining concessions from a former consultant to our company known as El Aguila,
El Aire and La Tehuana, which totaled 1,896 hectares. The El Aguila and El Aire concessions are part of the El Aguila Project and the La Tehuana concession comprises the Las Margaritas
property. The El Aguila lease agreement with our former consultant is subject to a 4% net smelter return royalty where
production is sold in the form of gold/silver dore and 5% for production sold in concentrate form. Subject to meeting minimum exploration requirements, there is no expiration term for the lease. We may terminate it at any time upon written
notice to the lessor and the lessor may terminate it if we fail to fulfill any of our obligations, which primarily consists of paying the appropriate royalty to the lessor.  In 2010, we subsequently acquired, at no additional cost, two additional concessions from our former consultant, which we refer to as El Chacal and El Pilon, totaling 1,445 hectares, each of
which are subject to a 2% royalty to him, but are not subject to the lease. We have filed for and received additional concessions for the El Aguila Project that total an additional 17,639 hectares which we refer to as El Pitayo, El
Talaje, El Coyote, El Zarrito, San Luis and La Curva. These additional concessions are also not part of the concessions leased or acquired from our former consultant, and bring our interest in the El
Aguila Project to an aggregate of 20,055 hectares. The mineral concessions making up the El Aguila Project are located within the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido. As described in more detail in “Mining Concessions and
Regulations” below, we are required to pay concession fees to the Mexican government to maintain our interest in these concessions, including the concessions which are subject to the lease agreement with our former consultant. We paid
approximately $33,000 during 2011 in maintenance fees to the Mexican government for the concessions comprising El Aguila Project. 
Location and Access The
El Aguila Project is located in the Sierra Madre del Sur mountains of southern Mexico, in the central part of the State of Oaxaca. The property is located along a major paved highway approximately 120 kilometers (75 miles)
southeast of Oaxaca City, the state’s capital city. At the village of San Jose de Gracia, the property is approximately four kilometers due northwest from the village. We have constructed a gravel road from the village to the
mine and mill sites which supports adequate access to the property by small and large vehicles.  The climate of the El
Aguila Project area is dry and warm to very warm with most rainfall occurring in the summer and annual precipitation averaging only 423.7 mm (17 inches). The average yearly temperature is 26.6 degrees centigrade (80° F). The area
is very rocky with scarce vegetation. Subsistence farming occurs and the main agricultural crop is agave cactus that is cultivated for the production of mescal.  Geology and Mineralization  The El Aguila Project is located in the
San Jose de Gracia Mining District in Oaxaca. Multiple volcanic domes of various scales, and probably non-vented intrusive domes, dominate the district geology. These volcanogenic features are imposed on a pre-volcanic basement of
sedimentary rocks. Gold and silver mineralization in this district is related to the manifestations of this classic volcanogenic system and is considered epithermal in character. 
There are no known reserves at El Aguila and we have proceeded to commercially mine the property absent a feasibility study that
would indicate any proven or probable reserves. As discussed in more detail below, we have produced metal concentrates from two locations on the El Aguila property, the open pit mine (“El Aguila open pit”) and the underground
mine at the La Arista vein system. The El Aguila open pit mineralization is considered low sulfidation, epithermal mineralization of gold and silver with no base metals. The La Arista vein system is considered intermediate
epithermal mineralization of gold, silver, copper, lead, and zinc. The host rock at the La Arista vein system is primarily andesite. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Facilities  We constructed a mill facility and infrastructure at the El Aguila Project for approximately $35 million, which was completed in 2010. The mill is flexible in its ability to process several types
of mineralization. It has a differential flotation section capable of processing polymetallic ores and producing up to three separate concentrate products for sale, and an agitated leach circuit capable of producing gold and silver dore for
sale. Depending on the specific ore type and characteristics, the mill, as it is presently configured, can process a nominal 440,000 tonnes of ore per year. Power is provided by diesel generators at the site. We obtained water rights from the
Mexican government for an amount of water we believe is sufficient to meet our operating requirements and pump it approximately five kilometers to the site from a permitted well located near the Totolapam River . 
Additional improvements we have made at the site include constructing an access road from a major highway, installing a water line and
pumping station, creating haul roads from the mine site, constructing buildings adjacent to the mill facility for office space and an assay lab and construction of a tailings impoundment and other infrastructure.
In October 2007, we acquired an additional parcel of land which is approximately five hectares in size and adjacent to the community of
San Jose de Gracia. The land cost us $153,000. We have completed construction of an employee housing facility on this parcel for approximately $1.9 million that includes 10 buildings and houses approximately 50 people. 
Exploration Activities
The early history of activity at the El Aguila Project property, as known by us, is prospecting and limited mining for gold and
silver from the early 1900’s to the mid 1960’s. In 1998, the concessions were leased to Apex Silver Corporation of Denver, Colorado. Apex carried out an exploration program involving geologic mapping, surface sampling and an
11-hole drilling program (1,242 meters, or 4,074 feet). The results did not meet Apex’s expectations so it cancelled its lease on the property in 2002. We leased the property from our former consultant in October 2002. 
In August 2003, we commenced an initial drilling and exploration program. Through 2011, we have drilled a total of 307 core
holes equaling 83,173 meters and 177 reverse circulation holes equaling 15,609 meters for a total of 484 holes totaling 98,782 meters (324,086 feet).  Exploration at the El Aguila Project has involved drilling the El Aguila open pit mineralization and drilling the El Aire vein system mineralization and the discovery and subsequent
detailed drilling of the La Arista vein system. The La Arista vein system is made up of two primary veins, the Baja vein and the Arista vein which are approximately 30 meters apart but also include multiple near
parallel veins of varying length. The drilling of the La Arista vein system has shown mineralized material over 500 meters of strike length and 500 meters of depth. Both veins are open along strike and depth. 
Our exploration program at El Aguila during 2011 and 2012 is primarily focused on development work at the La Arista vein
system and although there is no specific timetable for exploration, development of the vein system remains our highest exploration priority. We anticipate spending approximately $4.8 million in 2012 for exploration at El Aguila, consisting of
approximately $3.8 million for drilling, $250,000 for geochemical surveys and $700,000 for geophysical exploration, including an airborne magnetic survey of all of our properties. We anticipate that all exploration activities will be funded from
working capital.  Operating Activities  We declared commercial production at the El Aguila Project July 1, 2010. Mineral production during 2010 consisted of processing ore from the El Aguila open pit located
approximately 0.5 kilometers from the mill. Mining of the open pit ore was essentially completed in 2010 and there remained a stockpile of open pit ore approximating 131,000 tonnes at the end of 2010. In 2010, we processed 166,237 tonnes of open pit
ore with an average grade of 3.7 grams per tonne gold and 43.2 grams per tonne silver from this ore through the mill’s flotation circuit.  During 2010, we began developing an underground mine to access two veins we named the La Arista and Baja veins, which we refer to as the “La Arista vein system”. The
underground mine is approximately 2 kilometers from the mill. We have constructed a primary decline ramp and that reached Level 8, approximately170 meters below the portal, at December 31, 2011. We have also constructed a safety/ventilation
decline ramp in conjunction with the primary decline ramp.  In November 2010, we commenced underground mining and stockpiling
of the La Arista ore at our El Aguila Project and continue to develop multiple working faces on the veins. We began the first stope between Level 4 and Level 5 during 2011 and we are mining ore from the stopes between Levels 4 and 5
and Levels 5 and 6 at December 31, 2011. 
  12 


Table of Contents
We began transitioning from processing the open pit ore to the underground ore at our mill
facilities in March 2011. Since that time, and especially following an anomalous storm in April 2011 which flooded the lower levels of the underground mine, we have periodically processed ore from the open pit stockpile in addition to
underground ore to supplement mill throughput. For approximately six weeks during the cleanup phase following the storm, we were unable to remove ore from the underground mine and supplemented approximately 20% of the mill throughput with stockpiled
open pit ore. In June 2011, we began processing ore from one of the first stopes we encountered and have combined this ore with development ore from La Arista. In 2011, the combined open pit and underground ore that we processed through the
mill averaged 619 tonnes of ore per day and totaled 214,215 tonnes for the year, with an average grade of 3.43 grams per tonne gold and 357 grams per tonne silver. All of our processing is taking place using the mill’s flotation circuit, as we
have not yet utilized the mill’s agitated leach circuit. We anticipate we would use the agitated leach circuit if ever we are able to mine sufficient ore from the El Rey property. 
Please see the table titled “Production and Sales Statistics—El Aguila Project” in Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis for additional details concerning our mineral production statistics for 2011 and 2010. 
Exploration Properties 
We currently hold an interest in five additional properties in Oaxaca, which we classify as exploration properties. We do not currently
consider any of these properties to be a “material” property for purposes of Guide 7 and none of these properties has any known reserves. We anticipate all exploration activities at these properties will be funded through our working
capital.  The El Rey Property  The El Rey property consists of concessions in another area in the state of Oaxaca known as El Rey, El Virrey, La Reyna and El Marquez. We acquired the El Rey
concession from our former consultant and it is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty payable to him. We obtained the remaining concessions by staking claims and filing for concessions with the Mexican government. These concessions total 2,773
hectares and we are required to pay concession maintenance fees semi-annually to the Mexican government to maintain the claims. We paid $9,500 in maintenance fees for the concessions comprising El Rey property in 2011. 
The El Rey property is approximately 64.4 kilometers (40 miles) from the El Aguila Project. There is no plant or
equipment on the El Rey property. If exploration is successful, any mining would probably require an underground mine but any mineralized material could be trucked to the El Aguila Project mill for processing. 
Limited drilling at El Rey has encountered gold and silver mineralization up to 1 meter of 132.5 grams per tonne gold (4.25 ounces
per tonne) and 1.5 meters of 958 grams per tonne silver. The mineralized material has been located within 100 meters from the surface. To date, we have drilled 48 core holes for a total of 5,278 meters (17,316 feet) at the El Rey
property. During 2011, we began to refurbish and extend an existing shaft on the property to permit underground exploratory drilling. We purchased a hoist and began designing a headframe to use at the shaft to facilitate underground access.
 We intend to continue exploration at El Rey during 2012 and have budgeted $1.2 million for that purpose, including
$500,000 for continued work on the existing shaft and $500,000 for additional drilling from the surface and underground. However, we have temporarily ceased work at El Rey following a recent request to obtain additional approvals from local
community agencies. We are working with the local agencies and anticipate resolving the matter, but we have no assurance we will be able to resume our exploration activities in the near term.  The Las Margaritas Property  The Las Margaritas
property is made up of the La Tehuana concession. We leased this concession in October 2002 from our former consultant along with two of the concessions comprising the El Aguila property and the terms of this agreement are
discussed under “The El Aguila Project” above. It is comprised of approximately 925 hectares located adjacent to the El Aguila Project. We are also required to pay concession maintenance fees
semi-annually to the Mexican government to maintain this claim and we paid $17,000 in maintenance fees during 2011.  To date,
we have conducted limited surface sampling that has identified mineralization containing up to 4,150 grams per tonne silver and 6.29 grams per tonne gold. Based on these results, we intend to continue exploration activity at Las Margaritas.
We have budgeted approximately $200,000 for additional geophysical and geochemical testing during 2012 to 
  13 


Table of Contents
continue identifying potential drill targets. We have obtained permits and completed design work to
commence construction of a new access road bypassing the community of Las Margaritas to allow year-round access to the drill targets without being impaced by fluctuating water levels from the nearby river. We have not established a formal timetable
for exploration, however, if we initiate an exploratory drilling program at the property, we would anticipate spending approximately $500,000 during the first twelve months on surface drilling. 
The Solaga Property  In February 2007, we leased a 100% interest in a property we refer to as the Solaga property, which is comprised of two mining concessions totaling 618 hectares known as Solaga I and
Solaga II. The property is located approximately 120 kilometers (75 miles) northeast of the El Aguila Project. The primary term of the lease is for eight years and can be held after that by production. The lease is subject to a 4% net
smelter return royalty on any production. The lease also requires an annual minimum advance royalty payment of $10,000 if production has not commenced by 2010. We paid the minimum advance royalty in 2010 and 2011 to the lessor in accordance
with the lease. We are also required to pay concession maintenance fees semi-annually to the Mexican government to maintain the claims and we paid $2,600 in maintenance fees for Solaga during 2011. 
A dormant silver mine is located on the Solaga property which was in production as recently as the 1980’s. However, we
cannot estimate if or when we will reopen the mine. We have not conducted any exploration activities at the property and have not established a timetable for exploration. To the extent we have the personnel and equipment available during 2012,
we will commence exploration activities and have budgeted approximately $600,000 for that purpose. We intend to conduct surface sampling and geological mapping at the Solaga property, as well as to evaluate whether to rehabilitate the
historic workings located at the property.  The Alta Gracia Property 
In August 2009, we acquired claims adjacent to the Las Margaritas property in the Alta Gracia Mining District by filing
concessions known as the David 1, the David 2 and La Hurradura, totaling 5,175 hectares. We refer to this property as the Alta Gracia property. We are required to pay concession maintenance fees to the Mexican
government semi-annually in order to maintain these claims and we paid $6,500 in annual fees during 2011.  During 2010, we
conducted surface sampling and geologic mapping at Alta Gracia. Our rock chip samples and other geologic field work have identified several structural targets containing gold and silver mineralization, including three high-grade polymetallic
veins that outcrop on the surface near some historic workings. We believe these results justified further exploration using an exploratory drill program. During 2010 and 2011, we identified multiple drill targets and in 2011 drilled 21 shallow
exploratory core holes for a total of 5,030 meters (16,502 feet). We also conducted a small amount of underground exploration by driving drifts and crosscuts into exposed veins. Initial drill results are encouraging and warrant continued drilling in
2012 to test other targets generated from surface sampling and the deeper zones of veins encountered to date. In 2011, we had 33 intercepts grading over 200 grams silver per tonne from intervals averaging over one meter down hole length. Assays
identified mineralization up to 1020 grams per tonne silver with 3.73 grams per tonne gold and only trace amounts of other base metals.  We have no established timetable for our exploration activities at Alta Gracia; however, we have budgeted approximately $1 million for additional exploration activities in 2012, including $500,000
to continue exploratory drilling. In addition to surface drilling, we intend to develop underground drill stations for deeper exploratory drilling and to test for mineral continuity. In late 2011 and continuing in 2012, we began rehabilitating
historic adits located at the site to permit underground access and intend to spend approximately $250,000 to complete this work. The remaining $250,000 is budgeted for geophysical and geochemical testing. 
The El Chamizo Property  In June 2011, we staked mineral claims between the El Rey property and Alta Gracia property and acquired an exploration concession from the Mexican government of approximately 26,386
hectares (101 square miles) referred to as El Chamizo. We are required to pay maintenance fees to the Mexican government semi-annually to maintain these claims and during the second half of 2011 we paid approximately $3,000 in maintenance
fees. Because of the close proximity of El Chamizo to Alta Gracia, exploration activity began on this property during late 2011 and to date has been limited to geochemical sampling and drilling of eight shallow core holes for a total
of 1,327 meters (4,353 feet). Additional work in 2012 will include the property-wide airborne geophysical survey and additional geochemical sampling and drilling, which is included in the exploration budget for Alta Gracia. 
  14 


Table of Contents
Mining Concessions and Regulations 
Mineral rights in Mexico belong to the Mexican federal government and are administered pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican
Constitution. All of our mining concessions are exploitation concessions, which may be granted or transferred to Mexican citizens and corporations. Our leases or concessions are held by our Mexican subsidiaries. Exploitation
concessions have a term of 50 years and can be renewed for another 50 years. Concessions grant us the right to explore and exploit all minerals found in the ground. Maintenance of concessions requires the semi-annual payment of mining
duties (due in January and July) and the performance of assessment work, on a calendar year basis, with assessment work reports required to be filed in the month of May for the preceding calendar year. The amount of mining duties and annual
assessment are set by regulation and may increase over the life of the concession and include periodic adjustments for inflation. Mining concessions are registered at the Public Registry of Mining in Mexico City and in regional offices in
Mexico.  Mexican mining law does not require payment of finder’s fees or royalties to the government, except for a
discovery premium in connection with national mineral reserves, concessions and claims or allotments contracted directly from the Mexican Geological Survey. None of the claims held by any of our subsidiaries are under such a discovery premium
regime.  Ejido Lands and Surface Right Acquisitions 
Surface lands at our Oaxaca mining properties are Ejido lands (agrarian cooperative lands granted by the federal government to
groups of Campesinos pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917). Prior to January 1, 1994, Ejidos could not transfer Ejido lands into private ownership. Amendments to Article 27 of the Mexican
Constitution in 1994 now allow individual property ownership within Ejidos and allow Ejidos to enter into commercial ventures with individuals or entities, including foreign corporations. We have an agreement with the local San
Pedro Totolapam Ejido allowing exploration and exploitation of mineralization at the El Aguila Project and our surrounding properties.  Mexican law recognizes mining as a land use generally superior to agricultural. However, the law also recognizes the rights of the Ejidos to compensation in the event mining activity
interrupts or discontinues their use of the agricultural lands. Compensation is typically made in the form of a cash payment to the holder of the agricultural rights. The amount of such compensation is generally related to the perceived
value of the agricultural rights as negotiated in the first instance between the Ejidos and the owner of the mineral rights. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the amount of the compensation, the decision will be referred to
the government.  We have established surface rights agreements with the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido and the individuals
impacted by our proposed operations which allow disturbance of the surface where necessary for our exploration activities and mining operations.  Office Facilities  We constructed an administrative office building
adjacent to the mill site as part of the facilities at the El Aguila Project. In 2010, we purchased a building in Colorado Springs, Colorado, containing approximately 4,500 square feet which serves as our executive and administrative
headquarters. Glossary  The
following terms used in this report shall have the following meanings:   









Adit:
  
A more or less horizontal drive (walk-in mine) into a hill that is usually driven for the purpose of intersecting or mining an ore body. An adit may also be driven into a hill
to intersect or connect a shaft for the purpose of dewatering. Adits were commonly driven on a slight incline to enable loaded mine trucks to have the advantage of a downhill run out, while the empty (lighter) truck was pushed uphill back into
the hill. The incline also allows water to drain out of the adit. An adit only becomes a tunnel if it comes out again on the hill somewhere, like a train tunnel.




Andesite:
  
An extrusive igneous, volcanic rock, of intermediate composition, with aphanitic to porphyritic texture characteristic of subduction zones, such as the western margin of South
America. Along with basalts they are a major component of the martian crust.

  15 


Table of Contents
 









 Doré:
  
Unrefined gold and silver bars usually containing more than 90% precious metal.




 Epithermal:
  
Used to describe gold deposits found on or just below the surface close to vents or volcanoes, formed at low temperature and pressure.




 Gram:
  
A metric unit of weight and mass, equal to 1/1000th of a kilogram. One gram equals .035 ounces. One ounce equals 31.103 grams.




 Hectare:
  
Another metric unit of measurement, for surface area. One hectare equals 1/200th of a square kilometer, 10,000 square meters, or 2.47 acres. A hectare is approximately the
size of a soccer field.




 Kilometer:
  
Another metric unit of measurement, for distance. The prefix “kilo” means 1000, so one kilometer equals 1,000 meters, one kilometer equals 3,280.84 feet, which equals
1,093.6 yards, which equals 0.6214 miles.




 Manto:
  
A mineralogy term meaning a layer or stratum.




 Mineralized Material:
  
Minerals or any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur.




 Net Smelter Return Royalty:
  
A share of the net revenue generated from the sale of metal produced by the mine.




 Ore or Ore Deposit:
  
Rocks that contain economic amounts of minerals in them and that are expected to be profitably mined.




 Portal:
  
The entrance to the mine at the surface.




 Silicified:
  
Is combined or impregnated with silicon or silica.




 Tonne:
  
A metric ton. One tonne equals 1000 kg. It is
approximately equal to 2,204.62 pounds.




 Volcanogenic:
  
Of volcanic origin.




 Volcanic domes:
  
These are mounds that form when viscous lava is erupted slowly and piles up over the vent, rather than moving away as lava flow. The sides of most domes are very steep and
typically are mantled with unstable rock debris formed during or shortly after dome emplacement. Most domes are composed of silica-rich lava which may contain enough pressurized gas to cause explosions during dome extrusion.
  






Conversion Table




 Metric System
  
Imperial System




 1 metre (m)
  
3.2808 feet (ft)




 1 kilometer (km)
  
0.6214 mile (mi)




 1 square kilometer (km2)
  
0.3861 square mile (mi2)




 1 square kilometer (km2)
  
100 hectares (has)




 1 hectare (ha)
  
2.471 acres (ac)




 1 gram (g)
  
0.0322 troy ounce (oz)




 1 kilogram (kg)
  
2.2046 pounds (lbs)




 1 tonne (t)
  
1.1023 tons (t)




 1 gram/tonne (g/t)
  
0.0292 ounce/ton (oz/t)
  


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  We
are not currently subject to any legal proceedings, and to the best of our knowledge, no such proceeding is threatened, the results of which would have a material impact on our properties, results of operation, or financial condition. Nor, to
the best of our knowledge, are any of our officers or directors involved in any legal proceedings in which we are an adverse party. 
  16 


Table of Contents


ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
Not applicable. 
PART II   


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  Market Information  Our common stock trades on the NYSE Amex LLC stock
exchange, which we refer to as the NYSE Amex, under the symbol “GORO”. Prior to August 30, 2010, our common stock traded over-the-counter and was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the same symbol “GORO.” The table
below sets forth the high and low bid prices for our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board until August 29, 2010 and the high and low sales price of the common stock thereafter on the NYSE Amex for the last two fiscal years. Quotations
represent prices between dealers, do not include retail markups, markdowns or commissions, and do not necessarily represent prices at which actual transactions were effected. 
 












 Year Ending
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
29.90
  
  
$
21.16
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
31.38
  
  
 
21.76
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
28.74
  
  
 
16.65
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
 
24.19
  
  
 
15.06
  





 December 31, 2010
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
11.60
  
  
$
9.50
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
13.00
  
  
 
9.80
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
19.97
  
  
 
12.01
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
 
29.75
  
  
 
18.70
  
 On February 28, 2012, the high and low sales price of our common stock on the NYSE Amex stock
exchange were $26.01 and $25.60, respectively, and we had approximately 65 holders of record of our common stock. The approximate number of beneficial shareholders is 11,000.  Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans  The
following table provides information about our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and rights under all of our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2011. 
 
















Plan Category
  
Number ofSecuritiesto be
issueduponexercise ofoutstandingoptions,warrantsand rights(a)
 
  
Weighted-averageExerciseprice
ofOutstandingoptions,warrantsand
rights(b)
 
  
Number ofsecuritiesRemainingavailable
forfutureissuanceunder equitycompensationplans(excludingsecuritiesreflected incolumn (a))(c)
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:
  
 
5,160,000
  
  
$
8.51
  
  
 
3,140,000
  






 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders:
  
 
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
N/A
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
5,160,000
  
  
$
8.51
  
  
 
3,140,000
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  17 


Table of Contents
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Company and Affiliated Purchasers 
In September 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program to purchase up to $20.0 million of our common stock with
no pre-established end date.  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act 
 




















Period
  
TotalNumber ofSharesPurchased
 
  
AveragePrice Paidper Share
 
  
Total Numberof SharesPurchased asPart 
ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms (1)
 
  
MaximumApproximateDollar Valueof Sharesthat MayYet 
BePurchasedunder thePlans orPrograms(Thousands)
 

 September 1-30, 2011
  
 
51,000
  
  
$
19.01
  
  
 
51,000
  
  
$
19,030
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total July 1-September 30, 2011
  
 
51,000
  
  
$
19.01
  
  
 
51,000
  
  
$
19,030
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 October 1-31, 2011
  
 
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
19,030
  

 November 1-30, 2011
  
 
53,251
  
  
 
18.39
  
  
 
53,251
  
  
 
18,046
  

 December 1-31, 2011
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
18,046
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total October 1-December 31, 2011
  
 
53,251
  
  
$
18.39
  
  
 
53,251
  
  
$
18,046
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL 2011
  
 
104,251
  
  
$
18.69
  
  
 
104,251
  
  
$
18,046
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs includes shares purchased under the Board’s authorizations described above.
 Performance Graph  The following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such
information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference in such filing.
 The following graph compares the performance of Gold Resource Corporation common stock with the performance of the NYSE
Amex Composite Index and the NYSE Arca Gold Bugs, assuming reinvestment of dividends on December 31 of each year indicated. The graph assumes $100 invested at the per share closing price in Gold Resource Corporation and each of the indices on
December 31, 2007. 
  18 


Table of Contents
  

  
























 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
Base
 
  
Total Cumulative Return
 

 
  
Period
 
  
Years Ending
 

 Company / Index
  
12/31/07
 
  
12/31/08
 
  
12/31/09
 
  
12/31/10
 
  
12/31/11
 

 Gold Resource Corporation
  
 
100
  
  
 
78.65
  
  
 
253.71
  
  
 
660.67
  
  
 
479.64
  

 NYSE Arca Gold Bugs Index
  
 
100
  
  
 
73.88
  
  
 
105.03
  
  
 
140.06
  
  
 
121.84
  

 NYSE Amex Composite Index
  
 
100
  
  
 
60.00
  
  
 
75.74
  
  
 
91.65
  
  
 
94.55
  
 Transfer Agent  Computershare Investor Services is the transfer agent for our common stock. The principal office of Computershare is located at 350 Indiana Street, Suite 750, Golden, CO 80401 and its telephone number is
(303) 262-0600.  Dividend Policy  Since we have declared commercial production at our El Aguila Project, one of our primary goals is to make a cash or in-kind distribution to shareholders. In keeping with this policy, and
beginning July 2010, we determined on a monthly basis to declare a special dividend every month until August 2011 ranging from $0.03 to $0.04 per share. In August 2011, we increased the dividend to $0.05 per share and instituted a regular monthly
dividend policy at that time. Special and regular dividends should not be considered a prediction or guarantee of future dividends. Our instituted dividend may be discontinued at the discretion of our Board of Directors, depending on
variables such as operating cash flow, development requirements and strategies, spot gold and silver prices, taxation and general market conditions. At the present time, we are not party to any agreement that would limit our ability to pay
dividends. The dividends have been charged against our additional paid in capital and were considered return of capital dividend since Gold Resource Corporation, as a stand-alone U.S. corporation, had no current or accumulated tax-basis
earnings or profits in 2011 and 2010. 
  19 


Table of Contents
The table below sets forth the frequency and amounts of cash dividends declared on our
common stock for the two most recent fiscal years:   








Date Declared
  
 Per Share
Amount
 

 July 30, 2010
  
$
0.03
  

 August 30, 2010
  
 
0.03
  

 September 29, 2010
  
 
0.03
  

 October 28, 2010
  
 
0.03
  

 November 27, 2010
  
 
0.03
  

 December 21, 2010
  
 
0.03
  


  
  
  
 

 TOTAL 2010:
  
$
0.18
  


  
  
  
 




 January 26, 2011
  
$
0.03
  

 February 23, 2011
  
 
0.03
  

 March 29, 2011
  
 
0.03
  

 April 28, 2011
  
 
0.04
  

 May 26, 2011
  
 
0.04
  

 June 27, 2011
  
 
0.04
  

 July 25, 2011
  
 
0.04
  

 August 23, 2011
  
 
0.05
  

 October 5, 2011
  
 
0.05
  

 October 27, 2011
  
 
0.05
  

 November 29, 2011
  
 
0.05
  

 December 28, 2011
  
 
0.05
  


  
  
  
 

 TOTAL 2011:
  
$
0.50
  


  
  
  
 
  


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
The following selected financial data sets forth our summary historical financial data as of and for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007. This information was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements for each period. Our selected historical financial data is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with,
“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. For additional information relating to our
operations, see “Item 1. Business” and “Item 2. Properties.” 
  20 


Table of Contents
 
























Operating Data
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

(in thousands, except share data)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Sales of metals concentrate
  
$
105,163
  
 
$
14,754
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  








 Mine gross profit
  
 
87,206
  
 
 
9,799
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Operating Income (loss)
  
 
45,674
  
 
 
(22,839
) 
 
 
(34,184
) 
 
 
(26,349
) 
 
 
(8,319
) 

 Other income (expense)
  
 
2,414
  
 
 
(235
) 
 
 
55
  
 
 
334
  
 
 
242
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
48,058
  
 
 
(23,074
) 
 
 
(34,129
) 
 
 
(26,015
) 
 
 
(8,076
) 

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
12,037
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  








 Net income (loss) before extraordinary item
  
$
60,125
  
 
$
(23,074
) 
 
$
(34,129
) 
 
$
(26,015
) 
 
$
(8,076
) 








 Extraordinary item
  
 
(1,756
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
58,369
  
 
$
(23,074
) 
 
$
(34,129
) 
 
$
(26,015
) 
 
$
(8,076
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic income (loss) per share before extraordinary item
  
$
1.13
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 
 
$
(0.76
) 
 
$
(0.28
) 

 Extraordinary item
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic income (loss) per share
  
$
1.10
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 
 
$
(0.76
) 
 
$
(0.28
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted income (loss) per share before extraordinary item
  
$
1.06
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 
 
$
(0.76
) 
 
$
(0.28
) 

 Extraordinary item
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted income (loss) per share
  
$
1.03
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 
 
$
(0.76
) 
 
$
(0.28
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares—basic
  
 
52,979,481
  
 
 
50,042,471
  
 
 
43,764,703
  
 
 
34,393,854
  
 
 
28,645,038
  

 Weighted average shares—diluted
  
 
56,414,654
  
 
 
50,042,471
  
 
 
43,764,703
  
 
 
34,393,854
  
 
 
28,645,038
  




 Balance Sheet Data
  
 
As of December 31
  

(in thousands)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
51,960
  
 
$
47,582
  
 
$
6,752
  
 
$
3,535
  
 
$
22,007
  








 Total current assets
  
 
89,527
  
 
 
57,687
  
 
 
20,701
  
 
 
3,737
  
 
 
22,051
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
10,318
  
 
 
4,849
  
 
 
1,726
  
 
 
812
  
 
 
352
  

 Land and mineral rights
  
 
227
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
227
  
 
 
152
  

 Deferred tax asset
  
 
19,517
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Total assets
  
 
119,595
  
 
 
62,797
  
 
 
22,665
  
 
 
4,781
  
 
 
22,557
  








 Current liabilities
  
 
30,186
  
 
 
6,456
  
 
 
725
  
 
 
1,753
  
 
 
768
  

 Long-term obligations
  
 
2,281
  
 
 
2,495
  
 
 
1,992
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Shareholders’ equity
  
 
87,128
  
 
 
53,846
  
 
 
19,948
  
 
 
3,028
  
 
 
21,789
  
 See the consolidated financial statements attached hereto under Item 8 for additional information.
  


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION 
Except for the historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and
uncertainties. We caution you not to put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Our actual results or actions may differ materially from these forward-looking statements for many
reasons, including the risks described in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this annual report. Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated
financial statements and related notes included in this report and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we currently expect. 
  21 


Table of Contents
Introduction  The following discussion analyzes our operating results for the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and our financial condition at December 31, 2011 and 2010, with a particular emphasis
on the year ended December 31, 2011.  Overview  Business  We are a mining company that pursues gold and silver projects
that we anticipate will feature low operating costs and high returns on capital and is currently focused on mineral production at the El Aguila Project in Oaxaca, Mexico. We began commercial production of metal concentrates in July 2010 from
the El Aguila open pit mine. We experienced our first full year of operations in 2011. During the first two months of 2011, we processed ore from our El Aguila open pit mine where our primary metal product was gold and our by-product
was silver. For the remaining ten months of 2011, we processed ore primarily from our underground La Arista mine where our primary metal products are gold and silver and our by-products are copper, lead and zinc, although we briefly
supplemented approximately 20% of our production with stockpiled open pit ore during the clean-up period following an anomalous storm in April 2011.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded revenues of $105.2 million, mine gross profit of $87.2 million, net income before extraordinary item of $60.1 million and net income of $58.4
million. We produced a total of 66,159 ounces gold equivalent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 at a cash cost of $136 per gold equivalent ounce. Precious metal gold equivalent is determined by taking the silver payable metal ounces
produced and converting them to the dollar equivalent of gold by using the gold to silver average price ratio. The gold and silver average prices used are the actual metal prices realized from the sales of our metals concentrate. (Please see the
section titled “Non-GAAP Measure” below for additional information concerning the cash cost per ounce measure.)  Exploration Stage Company  We are considered an exploration stage company
under the SEC criteria since we have not demonstrated the existence of proven or probable reserves at our El Aguila Project in Oaxaca, Mexico or any of our other properties. Accordingly, as required by the SEC guidelines (see
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and U.S. GAAP for companies in the exploratory stage, substantially all of our investment in mining properties to date, including construction of the mill and mines, have been expensed and
therefore do not appear as assets on our balance sheet. We therefore also expensed construction and development expenditures in 2011 related to the La Arista underground mine. Certain expenditures, such as expenses for rolling stock or other
general purpose equipment, may be capitalized, subject to our evaluation of the possible impairment of the asset.  Our
characterization as an exploration stage company regarding the treatment of construction and development expenditures as an operating expense rather than as a capital expenditure, has caused us to report larger losses in 2009 and 2010 and lower net
income in 2011 than if we had capitalized the expenditures. Additionally, we will not have a corresponding depreciation or amortization expense for these costs going forward since they are expensed as incurred rather than capitalized. Although
the majority of the capital expenditures for the El Aguila Project were completed between 2007 and 2010, we expect underground mine construction to continue in future years. In comparison to other mining companies that capitalize
development expenditures because they have exited the exploration stage, we may report larger losses or lesser profits as a result of this ongoing construction, which will be expensed instead of capitalized for accounting purposes. 
We expect to remain as an exploration stage company for the foreseeable future, even though we have reached commercial production. We
will not exit the exploration stage until such time, if ever, that we demonstrate the existence of proven or probable reserves that meet the SEC guidelines. Likewise, unless mineralized material is classified as proven or probable reserves,
substantially all expenditures for mine and mill construction have been or will be expensed as incurred.  Exploration
Activities  During 2011, we focused primarily on infill and step out drilling at the La Arista underground mine,
located at the El Aguila Project. Because this drilling is actually used to define the mineralization and to assist in mining of the ore at the underground mine, these expenses are considered development and delineation of the ore body (not
exploration), and these costs are accounted for under construction and development.  Exploration activities that are expensed
as exploration expenses are activities that consist of, but are not limited to, drilling on the balance of the property to test new geologic targets. At the El Rey property we intend to conduct further exploration from underground by draining
and refurbishing an existing shaft for access and to sink the shaft deeper to enable us 
  22 


Table of Contents

to explore the previously drilled veins by drifting, crosscutting and establishing underground drill stations, once the refurbishment is complete. We expect to test-mine some of the veins and
generate bulk samples for metallurgical testing purposes. We are also exploring and testing at the Alta Gracia property by drilling from the surface and driving drifts and crosscuts into exposed veins. 
Other Events  In August 2011, we began purchasing gold and silver bullion to diversify our treasury and for possible use in conjunction with a program to offer shareholders the ability to receive gold and silver
bullion in lieu of cash payment of dividends. It is expected that the bullion will be minted into coins in connection with this program. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased approximately 868 ounces of gold and 41,728 ounces of
silver at market prices for a total cost of $3.0 million.  On August 23, 2011, the Board of Directors instituted a
regular dividend payment of $0.05 per share per month, or $0.60 per share per year, beginning with the August dividend payable in September 2011. Prior to instituting a regular dividend, the dividends were characterized as special dividends. Special
dividends have been declared each month since we commenced commercial production on July 1, 2010 and we moved to institute a regular dividend based on our performance in the latter part of 2011. The dividends have been charged against our
additional paid in capital and were considered return of capital dividend since Gold Resource Corporation, as a stand-alone U.S. corporation, had no current or accumulated tax-basis earnings or profits in 2011 and 2010. 
On September 23, 2011, the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which we may repurchase up to $20.0
million of our common stock from time to time in market transactions. There is no pre-determined end date associated with the share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2011, we repurchased 104,251 shares of common stock for approximately
$2.0 million.  Results of Operations—Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 
Sales of metals concentrate, net  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we generated revenues of $105.2 million, net of treatment charges, compared to revenues of $14.8 million during the same period of 2010, an increase of
610.8%. As mentioned previously, 2011 was our first full year of commercial production, while production in 2010 was limited to six months. Also, metals prices realized in 2011 increased over the prior year, with average per ounce gold prices
increasing to $1,596 from $1,201 per ounce, a 33% increase, and average per ounce silver prices increasing to $35 from $20 per ounce, a 75% increase. Metal concentrate sales during 2010 were generated only from the El Aguila open pit mine;
for 2011, metal concentrate sales were derived from the El Aguila open pit mine during the first two months of the year and substantially from the La Arista underground mine for the remaining ten months of the year. 
The table below sets forth the production and sales statistics from the El Aguila Project for 2011 and 2010. This table includes a
break-down in the production statistics by mine for which production and sales from the El Aguila open pit mine occurred during the first two months of 2011, and compares those results to our six months of commercial production during 2010
(July-December) from the El Aguila open pit mine. This table also sets forth production and sales statistics from the La Arista underground mine for March through December 2011. (There are no comparable statistics for 2010 for the
La Arista underground mine.) 
  23 


Table of Contents
 




















 Production and Sales Statistics - El
Aguila Project
 

 
  
Year 2011
 
  
Year 2010
 

 
  
CombinedOpen Pit andUnderground(12 months)2011
 
  
La Arista -Underground(10 months)2011
 
  
 El Aguila -Open Pit
(2 months)2011
 
  
 El Aguila - Open Pit(6 months)
2010
 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Production Summary
  



  



  



  










 Milled:
  



  



  



  




 Tonnes Milled
  
 
214,215
  
  
 
167,806
  
  
 
46,409
  
  
 
166,237
  

 Tonnes Milled per Day
  
 
619
  
  
 
561
  
  
 
829
  
  
 
755
  







 Grade:
  



  



  



  




 Average Gold Grade g/t
  
 
3.43
  
  
 
3.45
  
  
 
3.35
  
  
 
3.70
  

 Average Silver Grade g/t
  
 
357
  
  
 
446
  
  
 
39
  
  
 
43
  

 Average Copper Grade %
  
 
0.46
  
  
 
0.46
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Average Lead Grade %
  
 
1.28
  
  
 
1.28
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Average Zinc Grade %
  
 
2.84
  
  
 
2.84
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  







 Recoveries:
  



  



  



  




 Average Gold Recovery %
  
 
87
  
  
 
88
  
  
 
81
  
  
 
76
  

 Average Silver Recovery %
  
 
89
  
  
 
93
  
  
 
75
  
  
 
68
  

 Average Copper Recovery %
  
 
77
  
  
 
77
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Average Lead Recovery %
  
 
78
  
  
 
78
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Average Zinc Recovery %
  
 
76
  
  
 
76
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  







 Gross Payable metal produced
  



  



  



  




 Gold (ozs.)
  
 
21,586
  
  
 
16,027
  
  
 
5,559
  
  
 
10,493
  

 Silver (ozs.)
  
 
2,180,309
  
  
 
2,122,000
  
  
 
58,309
  
  
 
111,316
  

 Copper (tonnes)
  
 
620
  
  
 
620
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Lead (tonnes)
  
 
1,840
  
  
 
1,840
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Zinc (tonnes)
  
 
3,730
  
  
 
3,730
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  







 Payable metal sold
  



  



  



  




 Gold (ozs.)
  
 
19,092
  
  
 
15,175
  
  
 
3,917
  
  
 
9,918
  

 Silver (ozs.)
  
 
2,073,027
  
  
 
2,029,422
  
  
 
43,605
  
  
 
105,222
  

 Copper (tonnes)
  
 
464
  
  
 
464
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Lead (tonnes)
  
 
1,510
  
  
 
1,510
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Zinc (tonnes)
  
 
2,812
  
  
 
2,812
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  







 Average metal prices realized
  



  



  



  




 Gold (ozs.)
  
$
1,596
  
  
$
1,644
  
  
$
1,383
  
  
$
1,201
  

 Silver (ozs.)
  
$
35
  
  
$
35
  
  
$
34
  
  
$
20
  

 Copper (tonnes)
  
$
8,095
  
  
$
8,095
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Lead (tonnes)
  
$
2,184
  
  
$
2,184
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Zinc (tonnes)
  
$
1,995
  
  
$
1,995
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  







 Gold equivalent ounces produced
  



  



  



  




 Gold (ounces)
  
 
21,586
  
  
 
16,027
  
  
 
5,559
  
  
 
10,493
  

 Equivalent Gold (ounces) from Silver
  
 
44,573
  
  
 
44,573
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Gold and Gold Equivalent (ounces)
  
 
66,159
  
  
 
60,600
  
  
 
5,559
  
  
 
10,493
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 







 Unit costs
  



  



  



  




 Costs per tonne - ore mined
  
$
25
  
  
$
26
  
  
$
16
  
  
$
11
  

 Costs per tonne - ore milled
  
$
56
  
  
$
51
  
  
$
4
  
  
$
17
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cost per tonne
  
$
81
  
  
$
77
  
  
$
20
  
  
$
28
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash cost per ounce Gold Equivalent (1)
  
$
136
  
  
$
137
  
  
$
87
  
  
$
217
  
  


(1)
 A reconciliation
of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found below in Non-GAAP Measures. 
For the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold 19,092 ounces gold and 2,073,027 ounces silver from the El Aguila Project
compared to 9,918 ounces gold and 105,222 ounces silver during 2010. From the El Aguila open pit mine, we sold 3,917 ounces gold and 43,605 ounces silver produced during the first two months of 2011; our sales during 2010 were derived solely
from the El Aguila open pit mine. From the La Arista underground mine, we sold 15,175 ounces gold and 2,029,422 ounces silver during the remaining ten months of 2011. Production during 2011 from the underground mine resulted in

  24 


Table of Contents

improved metal recoveries which was supported by increase in the average metal prices realized compared to 2010. We also generated revenues in 2011 from sales of base metal concentrates (copper,
lead and zinc) which are derived from and are considered by-products of our gold and silver production.  Production
 For the year ended December 31, 2011, we produced 66,159 gold equivalent ounces compared to 10,493 gold ounces for
the same period of 2010. See the table titled “Production and Sales Statistics-El Aguila Project” above for additional information regarding our mineral production statistics. 
We continue to focus mining and development activities at the La Arista underground mine and our production is dependent on the
rate of mine development and the establishment of sufficient stopes and working faces. We anticipate the number of stopes and working faces will increase in 2012 and that production will increase as well. We are targeting production of 120,000 to
140,000 ounces gold equivalent in 2012.  Mine gross profit. For the year ended December, 2011, mine gross profit, which
is equal to net revenue minus costs of production (including depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion), totaled $87.2 million compared to $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The significant increase in mine gross
profit from the prior year was primarily due to the increase in sales of metal concentrate, at higher metal prices realized, as discussed above. Mine gross profit percentages for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased to 82.9% from 66.4%
during the same period in 2010.  Net income (loss) before extraordinary item. For the year ended December 31,
2011, net income before extraordinary item was $60.1 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, as compared to a net loss before extraordinary item of $23.1 million or $0.46 per diluted share, for the comparable period of 2010. Net income before
extraordinary item for the year ended December 31, 2011 was driven by the fact that we generated significantly more revenue from the sale of precious metals and base metals in the period combined with increased mine gross profit margins and the
income tax benefit for a reduction to the income tax valuation allowance. We commenced commercial production in July 2010 and did not record revenue during the first six months of 2010. 
Costs and expenses. Total costs and expenses during the year ended December 31, 2011 were $41.5 million compared to $32.6
million during the comparable period of 2010, an increase of $8.9 million, or 27.3%. This increase in costs and expenses, which are discussed by category below, was primarily the result of our operations transitioning to our underground mine
development activities and an increase in stock-based compensation.  General and administrative expenses. General and
administrative expenses, exclusive of stock based compensation, for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $9.0 million compared to $6.6 million for the same periods of 2010. The cash components of general and administrative expense include
salaries and benefits, professional fees, investor relations, community relations and travel. The change in general and administrative expenses was attributable to increases in community relations, professional fees, and salaries and benefits. The
increase during the year ended December 31, 2011 principally reflects the transition to an operating mining company, principally in the areas of increased Mexican operations and corporate management and personnel costs and supporting
professional services.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, stock-based compensation (a non-cash expense) increased
$3.9 million compared to 2010. The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. The fair value of stock option grants is then amortized and expensed over the respective
vesting period. The fair value of options granted or vested during the year ended December 31, 2011 was $5.4 million compared to $1.1 million in 2010. This increase resulted from the issuance of additional stock options during the periods.
See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  Exploration expenses.
Property exploration expenses totaled $4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $4.7 million during the same period of 2010. The exploration expenses for year ended December 31, 2011 has not changed materially from
the comparable period of 2010. The exploration program continues consistent with the targeted drilling activity planned at our properties. We anticipate spending approximately $8.0 million for exploration in 2012, including a combined $3.0 million
for all exploration properties, which excludes El Aguila.  Construction and development expenses. Construction
and development expenses during the year ended December 31, 2011 increased to $21.0 million from $18.4 million during 2010. As mentioned previously, our expenses relating to development drilling and construction of the La Arista
underground mine are categorized as construction and development expenses. During 2011, we also completed the second phase of the tailings dam, and expanded the capacity of the cleaner flotation cells in the flotation circuit. We will continue to
focus on further development of La Arista for the foreseeable future. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Other income (expense). For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded other
income of $2.4 million, compared to other expense of $0.2 million during the same period of 2010. The change in other income (expense) resulted primarily from recognizing a currency exchange gain of $2.7 million during the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to a currency exchange loss of $0.3 million in the comparable period in 2010. The current year gains resulted from currency translation adjustments during a period when the dollar was declining compared to the Mexican
peso. We also incurred an unrealized loss of $0.4 million resulting from the fair market value adjustment to gold and silver bullion held.  Income tax benefit (expense). For the year ended December 31, 2011, income tax benefit was $12.0 million compared to nil for the same period in 2010. The 2011 income tax benefit is principally
comprised of a reduction in the valuation allowances of our Mexican subsidiary, Don David Gold, and the U.S. parent totaling $28.3 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, and a current income tax expense of Don David Gold of $17.8 million (after the
utilization of the previously existing net operating loss carry-forward of $7.3 million). There was no corresponding income tax provision during the 2010 period. The deferred tax benefit and expense of Golden Trump Resources was fully offset by
changes in the valuation reserve. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
Extraordinary item. On April 20, 2011, the El Aguila Project suffered severe damage from an anomalous rain and hail
storm which flooded the La Arista underground mine and damaged existing roads, buildings and equipment. We experienced a loss of $2.5 million, for which we recorded an extraordinary loss of $1.8 million, net of income tax benefit of $750,000,
for the year ended December 31, 2011.  Results of Operations – Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended
December 31, 2009  During the year ended December 31, 2010, we sold 10,493 ounces of gold at an average price of
$1,201 per ounce for $12.6 million of revenue, net of smelter treatment charges, and 111,316 ounces of silver at an average price of $20 per ounce for approximately $2.2 million of revenue, net of smelter treatment charges. We had mine gross profit
of $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. There were no comparable sales of precious metals in 2009.  For the
year ended December 31, 2010, we reported a net loss of $23.1 million, or $0.46 per share, compared to a net loss of $34.1 million, or $0.78 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our net loss decreased in 2010 compared to 2009
as a result of generating revenues for the first time at the El Aguila Project in 2010. Total costs and expenses for
the year ended December 31, 2010 were $32.6 million compared to $34.2 million in the comparable period of 2009, a decrease of $1.6 million or 4.6%. The decrease in costs and expenses was primarily due to operations shifting from
construction activities to production activities consistent with commencing commercial production during 2010.  The property
exploration expense component for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $3.1 million, or 39.7%, from the comparable period of 2009, from $7.8 million to $4.7 million. The decrease reflected our focus on establishing commercial production
and the resulting decrease in exploration activities. The construction and development cost component for the year ended
December 31, 2010, decreased $2.6 million, or 12.4%, from the comparable period of 2009, from $21.0 million to $18.4 million. The decrease reflected our completed engineering and construction of the open pit mine and mill and a corresponding
shift in our construction emphasis to the underground La Arista mine development and production.  General and
administrative expenses increased $4.1 million or 164.0% to $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $2.5 million for the comparable period in 2009. This cash component of the increase was primarily due to an
increase in salaries and benefits attributable to an increase in the number of employees in Mexico, changes to our executive employment agreements and increased professional fees relating to our financing transaction and NYSE Amex listing. The
component of general and administrative expense of non-cash stock based compensation expense was $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $2.8 million for the comparable period in 2009.
For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recorded a currency translation adjustment gain of $215,000 and a currency
translation adjustment loss of $968,000, respectively.  Non-GAAP Measures 
Throughout this report, we have provided information prepared or calculated according to U.S. GAAP, as well as provided some non-U.S. GAAP
(“non-GAAP”) performance measures. Because the non-GAAP performance measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, they may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies.

  26 


Table of Contents

Accordingly, these measures are intended to provide additional information and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance calculated in accordance with
U.S. GAAP.  Cash Cost per Gold Equivalent Ounce 
We use cash operating cost per gold ounce or gold equivalent ounce (excluding royalty), calculated in accordance with the Gold
Institute’s standard, as one indicator for comparative monitoring of our mining operations from period to period and believe that investors also find this information helpful when evaluating our performance. In accordance with the Gold
Institute Standard, the cash operating cost is arrived at by taking our mine cost of sales and adding treatment charges paid to the buyer of the metals concentrate, subtracting by-product credits earned from all metals other than the primary
precious metals produced, and subtracting depreciation expense, accretion expense, and royalty payments. We have reconciled cash operating cost per gold equivalent ounce to reported U.S. GAAP measures in the table below. The most comparable
financial measures to our cash operating cost calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP are cost of sales. Mine cost of sales is derived from amounts included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
The following summary of our cash operating costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was calculated in accordance
with the Gold Institute Standard and begins with our mine cost of sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP as noted below:   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

  
2011
 
 
2010
 

  
  

(In thousands, except gold equivalent ounces 
and per gold equivalent ounce)
 

 Gold equivalent ounces produced
  
 
66,159
  
 
 
10,493
  





 Cost of sales—production costs
  
 
17,957
  
 
 
4,955
  

 Treatment charges
  
 
11,659
  
 
 
552
  

 By-product credits
  
 
(14,357
) 
 
 
(2,342
) 

 Depreciation costs
  
 
(473
) 
 
 
(166
) 

 Accretion costs
  
 
(82
) 
 
 
(68
) 

 Royalties
  
 
(5,676
) 
 
 
(652
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash operating cost
  
 
9,028
  
 
 
2,279
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash operating cost per gold equivalent ounce
  
$
136
  
 
$
217
  
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  As of December 31, 2011, we had working capital of $59.3 million, consisting of current assets of $89.5 million and current liabilities of $30.2 million. This represents an increase of $8.1 million
from the working capital balance of $51.2 million as of December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, our sources of working capital included cash on hand and cash generated by operations. Consistent with our plans, our working capital balance
fluctuates as we use cash to fund our operations, including exploration and mine development and construction, and to pay income taxes and dividends.  Prior to achieving profitable operations, we have historically relied on equity financings to fund our operations. Since achieving profitability in 2011, we do not currently anticipate raising
additional equity financing in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any outstanding debt. 
Our most significant expenditures during 2011 were costs associated with the optimization of commercial production at our mill facility,
improvements at our mill, the continued construction and development of the underground mine and further exploration of our properties and dividends paid to shareholders. Our significant expenditures for 2012 are projected to be further construction
and development at the underground mine, increased exploration activities and dividends.  The balance of cash and equivalents
as of December 31, 2011 increased to $52.0 million from $47.6 million as of December 31, 2010, a net increase in cash of $4.4 million. During this period, we converted approximately $3.0 million of our treasury into physical gold and
silver bullion and initiated a share buyback program pursuant to which we repurchased shares of our common stock totaling approximately $2.0 million. 
  27 


Table of Contents
Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was
$42.4 million compared to net cash used in operating activities of $21.3 million during the comparable period in 2010. Our operating cash increased significantly in the 2011 period as a result of generating higher revenue and net income during the
2011 period compared to a net loss during the year ended December 31, 2010.  Net cash used in investing activities for
the year ended December 31, 2011 was $9.3 million compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $7.9 million for 2010. Cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2011 was the result of equipment
purchases in our exploration, construction and development activities and purchases of gold and silver bullion. Although most of our exploration stage expenditures are recorded as an expense rather than an investment, we capitalize the acquisition
cost of land and mineral rights and certain equipment that has alternative future uses or significant salvage value, including rolling stock, furniture, and electronics, and the cost of these capitalized assets is reflected in our investing
activities. Much of the cash provided by our investing activities during the 2010 period came from the release of restricted cash, the use of which had previously been specifically designated for exploration, construction and development
activities.  Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $28.4 million, consisting of
dividends declared and treasury stock purchases. During the comparable period in 2010, cash provided by financing activities was $54.1 million, consisting of proceeds from the sale of common stock, partially offset by dividends declared of
$9.3 million. In August 2011, we instituted a regular monthly dividend consisting of $0.05 per share payable until such time as the Board of Directors determines otherwise. As a result and based on the number of shares of common stock
outstanding as of the date of this report, we anticipate we will continue paying dividends aggregating approximately $8.0 million each quarter; however, the Board of Directors may re-evaluate its decision on the basis of changes in our operations.
The estimated aggregate amount of dividends we intend to pay may also be reduced in the future if there are significant purchases of common stock under our share repurchase program as the outstanding shares of common stock would be reduced.
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  As of December 31, 2011, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements.  Contractual
Obligations  Our known obligations at fiscal year-end December 31, 2011, are set forth in the table below: 
 
























  
  
 
 
  
Payments due by period
 

Contractual Obligations
  
Total
 
  
Less than 1year
 
  
1-3 years
 
  
3-5years
 
  
More than5 years
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Purchase Obligations(1)
  
$
1,961
  
  
$
1,449
  
  
$
512
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Employee Salary Compensation (2)
  
 
912
  
  
 
504
  
  
 
408
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
2,873
  
  
$
1,953
  
  
$
920
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Represents amounts due to our executive officers pursuant to their respective employment agreements with our company. 


(2)
Represents amounts due to non-executive employees pursuant to their respective employment agreements with our company. 
Critical Accounting Policies  We believe that application of the following accounting policies, which are critical to our financial position and results of operations, requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of
management. 



  28 


Table of Contents
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Management routinely makes judgments and estimates about the effects of matters that are
inherently uncertain. Estimates that are critical to the accompanying consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, the identification and valuation of proven and probable reserves; valuation of gold and silver bullion;
valuation of accounts receivable for metal concentrates; valuation of ore and concentrate inventories; recoverability of prepaid expenses; obligations for environmental, reclamation, and closure matters; estimates related to asset impairments of
long lived assets and investments; classification of expenditures as either an asset or an expense; stock-based compensation expense; valuation of deferred tax assets; and the likelihood of loss contingencies. Management bases its estimates and
judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and assumptions are revised periodically and the effects of revisions are reflected in the financial statements in the period it is determined to be necessary. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.  Proven and Probable Reserves The definition of proven and probable reserves is set forth in SEC Industry Guide 7. Proven reserves are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops,
trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size,
shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established. Probable reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection,
sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. In addition,
reserves cannot be considered proven and probable until they are supported by a feasibility study, indicating that the reserves have had the requisite geologic, technical and economic work performed and are economically and legally extractable at
the time of the reserve determination.  Mineral Acquisition Costs
The costs of acquiring land and mineral rights are considered tangible assets. Significant acquisition payments are
capitalized. General, administrative and holding costs to maintain an exploration property are expensed as incurred. If a mineable ore body is discovered, such costs are amortized when production begins using the units-of-production
method. If no mineable ore body is discovered or such rights are otherwise determined to have diminished value, such costs are expensed in the period in which the determination is made.  Exploration Costs Exploration costs are charged to expense as
incurred. Costs to identify new mineral resources, to evaluate potential resources, and to convert mineral resources into proven and probable reserves are considered exploration costs.  Design, Construction, and Development Costs Certain costs to design and
construct mine and processing facilities may be incurred prior to establishing proven and probable reserves. Under these circumstances, we classify the El Aguila Project as an exploration stage project and expense substantially all
costs, including design, engineering, construction, and installation of equipment. Certain types of equipment, which have alternative uses or significant salvage value, may be capitalized. If a project is determined to contain proven and
probable reserves, costs incurred in anticipation of production can be capitalized. Such costs include development drilling to further delineate the ore body, removing overburden during the pre-production phase, building access ways,
constructing facilities, and installing equipment. Interest costs, if any, incurred during the development phase, would be capitalized until the assets are ready for their intended use. The cost of start-up activities and on-going costs to
maintain production are expensed as incurred. Costs of abandoned projects are charged to operations upon abandonment.  If
a project commences commercial production and the project is determined to contain proven and probable reserves, amortization and depletion of capitalized costs is computed on a unit-of–production basis over the expected reserves of the project
based on estimated recoverable gold equivalent ounces. 
  29 


Table of Contents
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  
We evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment. If impairment indicators exist, we perform additional analysis to quantify the
amount by which capitalized costs exceed recoverable value. The periodic evaluation of capitalized costs is based upon expected future cash flows, including estimated salvage values. As of December 31, 2011, our mineral resources do
not meet the definition of proven or probable reserves or value beyond proven and probable reserves and any potential revenue has been excluded from the cash flow assumptions. Accordingly, recoverability of capitalized cost is based primarily
on estimated salvage values, or alternative future uses.  Property and Equipment 
All items of property and equipment are carried at cost not in excess of their estimated net realizable value. Normal maintenance and
repairs are charged to earnings while expenditures for major maintenance and betterments are capitalized. Gains or losses on disposition are recognized in operations.  Asset Retirement Obligation Our mining and exploration activities are
subject to various laws and regulations, including legal and contractual obligations to reclaim, remediate, or otherwise restore properties at the time the property is removed from service. A liability is initially recorded at the estimated
present value for an obligation associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. For exploration stage properties that do not qualify for
asset capitalization, the costs associated with the obligation are charged to operations. For development and production stage properties, the costs are added to the capitalized costs of the property and amortized using the unit of production
method.  Stock Based Compensation We record compensation expense for the fair value of stock options that are granted. Expense is recognized on a pro-rata basis over the vesting periods, if any, of the options. The fair value of
stock options at their grant date is estimated by using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model.  Foreign Currency
Translation The local currency where our properties are located, the Mexican peso, is the functional currency for our
subsidiaries. Assets and liabilities are translated using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. Intercompany equity accounts are translated using historical rates. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average
exchange rate for the year. Translation adjustments are not included in the determination of net loss for the period and are reported as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. 
Income Taxes Income
taxes are computed using the liability method. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial and tax reporting purposes and the effect of net
operating loss carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets are evaluated to determine if it is more likely than not that they will be realized. Valuation allowances have been established to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets in
recognition of significant uncertainties regarding their ultimate realization. Further, the evaluation has determined that there are no uncertain tax positions required to be disclosed.  Recently Adopted Accounting Standards  We evaluate the pronouncements of
various authoritative accounting organizations, primarily the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC, and the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”), to determine the impact of new pronouncements on U.S. GAAP and the
impact on the Company. We have adopted the following new accounting standards during 2011:  Accounting Standards Update
(“ASU”) No. 2010-06, was issued in January 2010, and clarifies existing disclosures of inputs and valuation techniques for Level 2 and 3 fair value measurements. The disclosure of activity within Level 3 fair value measurements was
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those years. There was no impact to our financial position or results of operations for the additional disclosure requirements in 2011. 
ASU No. 2010-13 was issued in April 2010, and clarifies the classification of an employee share-based payment award with an exercise
price denominated in the currency of a market in which the underlying security trades. This ASU was effective for the first fiscal quarter beginning after December 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. The impact to our financial position
and results of operations for the adoption of this guidance was immaterial. 
  30 


Table of Contents
ASU 2010-29 was issued in December 2010 and requires a public entity to disclose pro forma
information for business combinations that occurred in the current reporting period. The disclosures include pro forma revenue and earnings of the combined entity for the current reporting period as though the acquisition date for all business
combinations that occurred during the year had been as of the beginning of the annual reporting period. This ASU was effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period
beginning on or after December 15, 2010. There was no impact to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a result of adopting this guidance.  Recently Issued Accounting Standards Updates The following accounting
standards updates were recently issued and have not yet been adopted by us. These standards are currently under review to determine their impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, “Fair Value Measurements (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value
Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs” (“ASU 2011-04”). ASU 2011-04 changes the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair
value measurements to ensure consistency between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. ASU 2011-04 also expands the disclosures for fair value measurements that are estimated using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs. This new guidance is to be applied
prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. We anticipate that the adoption of this standard will not materially expand its consolidated financial statement footnote disclosures or have an impact on our
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05,
“Comprehensive Income (ASC Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income” (“ASU 2011-05”), which amends current comprehensive income guidance. This accounting update eliminates the option to present the components of other
comprehensive income as part of the statement of shareholders’ equity. Instead, we must report comprehensive income in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income which contains two sections, net income and other comprehensive
income, or in two separate but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 will be effective for public companies during the interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the provisions of ASU
2011-05 with no impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as it only required a change in the format of the current presentation.  There were various other updates recently issued, most of which represented technical corrections to the accounting literature or application to specific industries. None of the updates are expected
to a have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  Our exposure to market risks includes, but is not limited to, the following risks: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in interest rates, equity price risks, commodity price fluctuations,
and country risk. We do not use derivative financial instruments as part of an overall strategy to manage market risk; however, we may consider such arrangements in the future as we evaluate our business and financial strategy. 
Commodity Price Risk 
The results of our operations will depend in large part upon the market prices of gold and silver. Gold and silver prices fluctuate
widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. The level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, 
  31 


Table of Contents
the world supply of gold and silver and the stability of exchange rates, among other factors, can all cause
significant fluctuations in commodity prices. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by changes in international investment patterns, monetary systems and political developments. The price of gold and silver has fluctuated widely
in recent years, and future price declines could cause a mineral project to become uneconomic, thereby having a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have not entered into derivative contracts to protect the
selling price for gold or silver. We may in the future more actively manage our exposure through derivative contracts or other commodity price risk management programs, although we have no intention of doing so in the near-term. 
In addition to adversely affecting our mineralized material estimates and our financial condition, declining gold and silver prices
could require a reassessment of the feasibility of a particular project. Even if a project is ultimately determined to be economically viable, the need to conduct such a reassessment may cause delays in the implementation of a project.
 Foreign Currency Risk  We transact a significant amount of our business in Mexican pesos. As a result, currency exchange fluctuations may impact our operating costs. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies such
as the peso against the U.S. dollar increases expenses and the cost of purchasing capital assets in U.S. dollar terms in Mexico, which can adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. Conversely, a depreciation of non-U.S. dollar
currencies usually decreases operating costs and capital asset purchases in U.S. dollar terms.  The value of cash and cash
equivalents denominated in foreign currencies also fluctuates with changes in currency exchange rates. Appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies results in a foreign currency gain on such investments and a decrease in non-U.S. dollar
currencies results in a loss. We have not utilized market risk sensitive instruments to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates but may in the future actively manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk. We
also hold portions of our cash reserves in non-U.S. dollar currencies.  Provisional Sales Contract Risk 
We enter into concentrate sales contracts with third-party smelters. The contracts, in general, provide for a provisional payment based
upon provisional assays and quoted metal prices. The provisionally priced sales contracts contain an embedded derivative that is required to be separated from the host contract for accounting purposes. The host contract is the receivable from the
sale of concentrates at the forward price at the time of sale. The embedded derivative, which is the final settlement based on a future price, does not qualify for hedge accounting and is marked-to-market through earnings each period prior to final
settlement.  At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding provisionally priced sales of $34.2 million consisting of
6,264 ounces of gold and 716,438 ounces of silver, 197 tons of copper, 606 tons of lead and 1,497 tons of zinc which had a fair value of approximately $33.8 million including the embedded derivative. If the price for
each metal were to change by one percent, the change (plus or minus) in the total fair value of the concentrates sold would be approximately $181,000. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding provisionally priced sales of $2.7 million consisting of 1,710 ounces of gold and 16,635 ounces of silver, which had a fair value of
approximately $2.8 million including the embedded derivative. If the price for each metal were to change by one percent, the change (plus or minus) in the total fair value of the concentrates sold would be approximately $28,195. 
Interest Rate Risk  We
have no debt outstanding nor do we have any investment in debt instruments other than highly liquid short-term investments. Accordingly, we consider our interest rate risk exposure to be insignificant at this time. 
Equity Price Risk  We
have in the past sought and may in the future seek to acquire additional funding by sale of common stock and other equity. Movements in the price of our common stock have been volatile in the past and may also be volatile in the future. As a result,
there is a risk that we may not be able to sell our common stock at an acceptable price should the need for new equity funding arise. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Country Risk  All of our mineral properties are located in Mexico. In the past, that country has been subject to political instability, changes and uncertainties which may cause changes to existing government
regulations affecting mineral exploration and mining activities. Civil or political unrest could disrupt our operations at any time. Our exploration and mining activities may be adversely affected in varying degrees by changing government
regulations relating to the mining industry or shifts in political conditions that could increase the costs related to our activities or maintaining our properties. Finally, Mexico’s status as a developing country may make it more
difficult for us to obtain required financing for our properties. 
  33 


Table of Contents


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   








 Index to Financial Statements:
  




 Management’s Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting
  
 
35
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
36
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
38
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and for the period from Inception (August 24, 1998) to December 31, 2011
  
 
39
  

 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and for the period from Inception (August 24, 1998) to December 31, 2011
  
 
40
  

 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity (Deficit) for the period from Inception (August
 24, 1998) to December 31, 2011
  
 
41
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and for the period from Inception (August 24, 1998) to December 31, 2011
  
 
42
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
44
  

  34 


Table of Contents
GOLD RESOURCE CORPORATION 
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. 
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 defines internal control over financial reporting in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) as a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:
  


 
•
 
 Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of assets;
  


 
•
 
 Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and our directors; and 
 


 
•
 
 Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention and timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a
material effect on our financial statements.  Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent
limitations. Therefore, even those systems that are determined to be effective provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on its assessment, management
concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. 
  35 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
Board of Directors and Shareholders  Gold
Resource Corporation  Colorado Springs, Colorado  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Gold Resource Corporation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, other comprehensive
(loss) income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2011, and the period August 24, 1998 (inception) to December 31, 2011. We also have audited Gold
Resource Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control–Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Gold Resource Corporation’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, including in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Gold Resource Corporation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2011, and the period August 24, 1998 (inception) to December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our 
  36 


Table of Contents
opinion, Gold Resource Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). 
 







 
/s/ StarkSchenkein, LLP


 
StarkSchenkein, LLP
 Denver, Colorado 
February 28, 2012  3500
South Yosemite Street | Suite 600 | Denver, CO 80237 | P: 303.694.6700 | TF: 888.766.3985 | F: 303.694.6761 | 
www.starkcpas.com 
An Independent Member of BKR International 
  37 


Table of Contents
GOLD RESOURCE CORPORATION 
(An Exploration Stage Company)  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  (U.S. dollars in
thousands, except shares)   












 
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 ASSETS
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
51,960
  
 
$
47,582
  

 Gold and silver bullion
  
 
2,549
  
 
 
—  
  

 Accounts receivable
  
 
14,281
  
 
 
1,185
  

 Inventories
  
 
4,243
  
 
 
3,063
  

 IVA taxes receivable
  
 
4,425
  
 
 
5,678
  

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
11,118
  
 
 
—  
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
951
  
 
 
179
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
89,527
  
 
 
57,687
  





 Land and mineral rights
  
 
227
  
 
 
227
  

 Property and equipment—net
  
 
10,318
  
 
 
4,849
  

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
19,517
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other assets
  
 
6
  
 
 
34
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
119,595
  
 
$
62,797
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 








 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
1,691
  
 
$
2,449
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
4,879
  
 
 
777
  

 IVA taxes payable
  
 
4,984
  
 
 
1,640
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
15,987
  
 
 
—  
  

 Dividends payable
  
 
2,645
  
 
 
1,590
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
30,186
  
 
 
6,456
  

 Asset retirement obligation
  
 
2,281
  
 
 
2,495
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
32,467
  
 
 
8,951
  

 Commitments and contingencies (Note 8)
  



 








 Shareholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock—$0.001 par value, 5,000,000 shares authorized: no shares issued and outstanding
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock—$0.001 par value, 100,000,000 shares authorized: 52,998,303 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011
and 2010
  
 
53
  
 
 
53
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
132,529
  
 
 
152,444
  

 (Deficit) accumulated during the exploration stage
  
 
(39,522
) 
 
 
(97,891
) 

 Treasury stock at cost, 104,251 shares
  
 
(1,954
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other comprehensive income—currency translation adjustment
  
 
(3,978
) 
 
 
(760
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
87,128
  
 
 
53,846
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
119,595
  
 
$
62,797
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  38 


Table of Contents
GOLD RESOURCE CORPORATION 
(An Exploration Stage Company)  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  and for the period from Inception (August 24, 1998) to December 31,
2011  (U.S. dollars in thousands, except shares and per share amounts) 
 




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Inception(August 24, 1998)to December 31,2011
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Sales of metals concentrate, net
  
$
105,163
  
 
$
14,754
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
119,917
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Mine cost of sales:
  



 



 



 




 Production costs applicable to sales
  
 
17,402
  
 
 
4,721
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
22,123
  

 Depreciation, depletion, and amortization
  
 
473
  
 
 
166
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
639
  

 Accretion
  
 
82
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
150
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total mine cost of sales
  
 
17,957
  
 
 
4,955
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
22,912
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Mine gross profit
  
 
87,206
  
 
 
9,799
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
97,005
  







 Costs and expenses:
  



 



 



 




 General and administrative expense
  
 
9,049
  
 
 
6,608
  
 
 
2,534
  
 
 
25,297
  

 Stock-based compensation expense
  
 
6,570
  
 
 
2,694
  
 
 
2,844
  
 
 
14,404
  

 Exploration expenses
  
 
4,927
  
 
 
4,692
  
 
 
7,811
  
 
 
34,105
  

 Construction and development
  
 
20,986
  
 
 
18,435
  
 
 
20,995
  
 
 
74,916
  

 Production start up expense, net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
209
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
209
  

 Management contract—US Gold, related party
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
752
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total costs and expenses
  
 
41,532
  
 
 
32,638
  
 
 
34,184
  
 
 
149,683
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 Operating income (loss)
  
 
45,674
  
 
 
(22,839
) 
 
 
(34,184
) 
 
 
(52,678
) 







 Other income (expense)
  
 
2,414
  
 
 
(235
) 
 
 
55
  
 
 
2,875
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 Income (loss) before income taxes
  
 
48,088
  
 
 
(23,074
) 
 
 
(34,129
) 
 
 
(49,803
) 







 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
12,037
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,037
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) before extraordinary item
  
 
60,125
  
 
 
(23,074
) 
 
 
(34,129
) 
 
 
(37,766
) 







 Extraordinary items:
  



 



 



 




 Flood loss, net of income tax benefit of $750
  
 
(1,756
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,756
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
58,369
  
 
$
(23,074
) 
 
$
(34,129
) 
 
$
(39,522
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 Net income (loss) per common share:
  



 



 



 




 Basic:
  



 



 



 




 Before extraordinary item
  
$
1.13
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 
 




 Extraordinary item
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
1.10
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Diluted:
  



 



 



 




 Before extraordinary item
  
$
1.06
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 
 




 Extraordinary item
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
1.03
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Weighted average shares outstanding:
  



 



 



 




 Basic
  
 
52,979,481
  
 
 
50,042,471
  
 
 
43,764,703
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Diluted
  
 
56,414,654
  
 
 
50,042,471
  
 
 
43,764,703
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  39 


Table of Contents
GOLD RESOURCE CORPORATION 
(An Exploration Stage Company)  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  and for the
period from Inception (August 24, 1998) to December 31, 2011  (U.S. dollars in thousands, except shares and per share
amounts)   




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Inception(August 24, 
1998)to December 31,2011
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
58,369
  
 
$
(23,074
) 
 
$
(34,129
) 
 
$
(39,522
) 







 Other comprehensive (loss) income:
  



 



 



 




 Currency translation gain (loss)
  
 
(3,218
) 
 
 
215
  
 
 
(968
) 
 
 
(3,978
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net comprehensive (loss) income
  
$
55,151
  
 
$
(22,859
) 
 
$
(35,097
) 
 
$
(43,500
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  40 


Table of Contents
GOLD RESOURCE CORPORATION 
(An Exploration Stage Company)  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  for the period from Inception (August 24, 1998) to December 31, 2011 
(U.S. dollars in thousands, except shares and per share amounts) 
 
































 
 
Number ofCommon Shares
 
 
Par Value ofCommon Shares
 
 
Additional Paid-in Capital
 
 
Accumulated(Deficit)
 
 
Treasury Stock
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
TotalShareholders’Equity
 

 Balance at Inception, August 24, 1998
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Shares issued for Contributed capital
 
 
3,800,000
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  

 Cash
 
 
23,055,352
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
38,223
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
38,247
  

 Management contract
 
 
2,560,000
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
390
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
392
  

 Conversion of debentures
 
 
200,000
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
51
  

 Repayment of loan related to exploration agreement
 
 
1,200,000
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
499
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
500
  

 Stock grants
 
 
2,485,000
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
744
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
747
  

 Stock options exercised
 
 
510,604
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
243
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
243
  

 Satisfaction of payables
 
 
1,280,000
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
319
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
320
  

 Investor relations
 
 
460,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
938
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
938
  

 Investment banking services
 
 
521,600
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Consulting services in Mexico
 
 
15,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
55
  

 Share issuance costs forgiven
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25
  

 Stock options granted
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,203
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,203
  

 Currency translation adjustment
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(7
) 

 Net (loss)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(40,688
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(40,688
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2008
 
 
36,087,556
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
43,687
  
 
 
(40,688
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
3,028
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stock options granted
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,844
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,844
  

 Stock options exercised, cashless exercise
 
 
677,933
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Shares issued for cash at $3.00 per share
 
 
4,330,000
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
12,986
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12,990
  

 Shares issued for cash at $4.00 per share
 
 
5,000,000
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
19,995
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
20,000
  

 Shares issued for cash at $8.185 per share
 
 
1,954,795
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
15,998
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
16,000
  

 Stock options exercised at $3.68 per share
 
 
50,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
184
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
184
  

 Currency translation adjustment
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(968
) 
 
 
(968
) 

 Net (loss)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(34,129
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(34,129
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
 
48,100,284
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
95,693
  
 
 
(74,817
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(975
) 
 
 
19,949
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stock options granted
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,694
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,694
  

 Stock options exercised, cashless exercise
 
 
141,440
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Shares issued for cash at $4.63 per share
 
 
50,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
231
  

 Shares issued for cash at $8.62 per share
 
 
600,000
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
5,171
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,172
  

 Shares issued for cash at $9.50 per share
 
 
631,579
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
5,999
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,000
  

 Shares issued for cash at $16.00 per share
 
 
3,475,000
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
51,986
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
51,989
  

 Return of capital dividend
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(9,330
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(9,330
) 

 Currency translation adjustment
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
215
  
 
 
215
  

 Net (loss)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(23,074
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(23,074
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
 
52,998,303
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
152,444
  
 
 
(97,891
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(760
) 
 
 
53,846
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stock options granted
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,570
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
6,570
  

 Purchase of treasury stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,954
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,954
) 

 Return of capital dividend
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(26,485
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(26,485
) 

 Currency translation adjustment
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,218
) 
 
 
(3,218
) 

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
58,369
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
58,369
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
 
52,998,303
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
132,529
  
 
 
(39,522
) 
 
 
(1,954
) 
 
 
(3,978
) 
 
 
87,128
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
  41 


Table of Contents
GOLD RESOURCE CORPORATION 
(An Exploration Stage Company)  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
and for the period from Inception (August 24, 1998) to December 31, 2011 
(U.S. dollars in thousands)   




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
Inception(August 24, 
1998)to December 31,2011
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
58,369
  
 
$
(23,074
) 
 
$
(34,129
) 
 
 
(39,522
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
  



 



 



 




 Depreciation
  
 
856
  
 
 
324
  
 
 
167
  
 
 
1,544
  

 Accretion expense
  
 
82
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
150
  

 Asset retirement obligation
  
 
—  
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
1,992
  
 
 
2,307
  

 Stock compensation
  
 
6,570
  
 
 
2,694
  
 
 
2,844
  
 
 
16,051
  

 Management fee paid in stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
392
  

 Related party payable paid in stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
320
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  
 
(3,218
) 
 
 
215
  
 
 
(968
) 
 
 
(3,978
) 

 Loss on disposal of asset
  
 
—  
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4
  

 Issuance cost forgiven
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25
  

 Unrealized loss from gold/silver bullion held
  
 
429
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
429
  

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
(30,635
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(30,635
) 

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
  



 



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
(13,096
) 
 
 
(1,185
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(14,281
) 

 Inventories
  
 
(1,180
) 
 
 
(2,838
) 
 
 
(225
) 
 
 
(4,243
) 

 IVA taxes receivable
  
 
1,253
  
 
 
(3,716
) 
 
 
(2,132
) 
 
 
(4,425
) 

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
(772
) 
 
 
146
  
 
 
47
  
 
 
(951
) 

 Accounts payable
  
 
(758
) 
 
 
4,142
  
 
 
(1,029
) 
 
 
1,691
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
4,102
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,879
  

 IVA taxes payable
  
 
3,344
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,984
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
15,987
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,987
  

 Dividends payable
  
 
1,055
  
 
 
1,590
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,645
  

 Other
  
 
29
  
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(8
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total adjustments
  
 
(15,952
) 
 
 
1,735
  
 
 
690
  
 
 
(7,113
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
 
42,417
  
 
 
(21,339
) 
 
 
(33,439
) 
 
 
(46,635
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures
  
 
(6,325
) 
 
 
(3,560
) 
 
 
(1,204
) 
 
 
(12,324
) 

 Purchase of gold and silver bullion
  
 
(2,977
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,977
) 

 Restricted cash
  
 
—  
  
 
 
11,436
  
 
 
(11,436
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities
  
 
(9,302
) 
 
 
7,876
  
 
 
(12,640
) 
 
 
(15,301
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 



 




 Proceeds from sales of common stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
63,393
  
 
 
48,990
  
 
 
150,633
  

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
184
  
 
 
428
  

 Proceeds from debentures—founders
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
50
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(26,484
) 
 
 
(9,330
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(35,814
) 

 Treasury stock purchases
  
 
(1,954
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,954
) 

 Proceeds from exploration funding agreement—Canyon Resources
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
500
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
  
 
(28,438
) 
 
 
54,063
  
 
 
49,174
  
 
 
113,843
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Continued on next page 
  42 


Table of Contents





$000,000



$000,000



$000,000



$000,000


 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
Inception(August 24, 1998)to December 31,2011
 

 Effect of exchange rates on cash and equivalents
  
 
(299
) 
 
 
230
  
  
 
123
  
  
 
53
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and equivalents
  
 
4,378
  
 
 
40,830
  
  
 
3,218
  
  
 
51,960
  







 Cash and equivalents at beginning of period
  
 
47,582
  
 
 
6,752
  
  
 
3,534
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash and equivalents at end of period
  
$
51,960
  
 
$
47,582
  
  
$
6,752
  
  
$
51,960
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Supplemental Cash Flow Information
  



 



  



  




 Interest paid
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income taxes paid
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Non-cash investing and financing activities:
  



 



  



  




 Conversion of Canyon Resources funding into common stock
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
500
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Conversion of founders debentures into common stock
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
50
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements. 
  43 


Table of Contents
GOLD RESOURCE CORPORATION 
(An Exploration Stage Company)  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Nature of
Operations  Gold Resource Corporation (the “Company”) was organized under the laws of the State of Colorado
on August 24, 1998. The Company was initially engaged solely in the exploration for precious and base metals in Mexico. In July 2010, the Company emerged as a producer of gold and silver metals concentrates and base metal concentrates.
 Significant Accounting Policies  Exploration Stage Company: Despite the fact that the Company commenced production in July 2010, it is still considered an exploration stage company under the criteria set forth by the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) since it has not yet demonstrated the existence of proven or probable reserves, as defined by the SEC, at its El Aguila Project in Oaxaca, Mexico or any of its properties. As a result, and in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) for exploration stage companies, all expenditures for exploration and evaluation of the Company’s properties are expensed as incurred and
unless mineralized material is classified as proven or probable reserves, substantially all expenditures for mine and mill construction have been and will continue to be expensed as incurred. Certain expenditures, such as for rolling stock or other
general-purpose equipment, may be capitalized, subject to evaluation of the possible impairment of the asset. The Company expects to remain as an exploration stage company for the foreseeable future, even though it has reached commercial production.
The Company will not exit the exploration stage unless and until it demonstrates the existence of proven or probable reserves that meet the SEC guidelines.  Proven and Probable Reserves: The definition of proven and probable reserves is set forth in SEC Industry Guide 7. Proven reserves are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from
dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the
geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established. Probable reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for
proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between
points of observation. In addition, reserves cannot be considered proven and probable until they are supported by a feasibility study, indicating that the reserves have had the requisite geologic, technical and economic work performed and are
economically and legally extractable at the time of the reserve determination.  As of December 31, 2011, none of the
Company’s mineralized material met the definition of proven or probable reserves.  Basis of Presentation: The
consolidated financial statements included herein are expressed in United States dollars, the Company’s reporting currency, and conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned Mexican corporation subsidiaries, which are Don David Gold S.A. de C.V. (“Don David Gold”) and Golden Trump Resources S.A. de C.V (“Golden
Trump Resources”). The expenditures of all of these subsidiaries are generally incurred in Mexican pesos. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 
Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Management routinely makes judgments and estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Estimates that are critical to the accompanying consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, the
identification and valuation of proven and probable reserves; valuation of gold and silver bullion; valuation of accounts receivable for metal concentrates; valuation of ore and concentrate inventories; recoverability of prepaid expenses;
obligations for environmental, reclamation, and closure matters; estimates related to asset impairments of long lived assets and investments; classification of expenditures as either an asset or an expense; stock-based compensation expense;
valuation of deferred tax assets; and the likelihood of loss contingencies. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying 
  44 


Table of Contents
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and
assumptions are revised periodically and the effects of revisions are reflected in the financial statements in the period it is determined to be necessary. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
Reclassifications: Certain amounts previously presented for prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current
presentation. The reclassifications had no effect on net income or loss, total assets, or total shareholders’ equity. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents consists of all cash balances and highly liquid investments with a
remaining maturity of three months or less when purchased and carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Gold and
Silver Bullion: From time to time, the Company may purchase gold and silver bullion on the open market in order to diversify its treasury and potentially provide for an alternative form of payment for the payment of dividends. Because ASC Topic
815 “Derivatives and Hedging” does not consider gold and silver to be readily convertible to cash, the Company carries this asset at the lower of cost or market, with unrealized holding gains and losses recognized in the Company’s
income statement.  Accounts Receivable: Accounts receivable consists of trade receivables from the sale of metals
concentrate.   Inventories: Major types of inventories include ore stockpile inventories, concentrate
inventories and materials and supplies, as described below. Inventories are carried at the lower of average cost or net realizable value, in the case of ore stockpile inventories and materials and supplies. The net realizable value of ore stockpile
inventories represents the estimated future sales price of the product based on current and long-term metals prices, less the estimated costs to complete production and bring the product to sale. Concentrate inventories are carried at the lower of
full cost of production or net realizable value based on current metals prices. Write-downs of inventory are reported as a component of production costs applicable to sales.  Ore Stockpile Inventories: Ore stockpile inventories represent mineralized materials that have been mined and are available for further processing. Ore stockpiles are measured by estimating the
number of tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, an estimate of the contained metals (based on assay data) and the estimated metallurgical recovery rates. Costs are allocated to ore stockpile inventories based on relative values of
material stockpiled and processed using current mining costs incurred up to the point of stockpiling the ore, including applicable overhead, depreciation, depletion and amortization relating to mining operations. Material is removed from
the stockpile at an average cost per tonne. The current portion of ore stockpiles is determined based on the expected amounts to be processed within the next 12 months. Ore stockpile inventories not expected to be processed within the next 12
months, if any, are classified as long-term. At December 31, 2011, all ore stockpile inventories were classified as current. Concentrate Inventories: Concentrates inventories include metal concentrates located either at the Company’s facilities or in transit to its customer’s port. Inventories consist of
copper, lead and zinc metal concentrates, which contain gold and silver mineralization.  Materials and Supplies
Inventories: Materials and supplies inventories are carried at cost not in excess of their estimated net realizable value. Cost includes applicable taxes and freight. Inventories consist of chemical reagents, parts, fuels and other
materials and supplies.  IVA Taxes Receivable and Payable: In Mexico, value added taxes (IVA) are assessed on
purchases of materials and services and sales of products. Businesses are generally entitled to recover the taxes they have paid related to purchases of materials and services, either as a refund or as a credit against future taxes payable.
Likewise, businesses owe IVA taxes as the business sells a product and collects IVA taxes from its customers.  For the period
from inception through 2008, substantially all of the Company’s refund claims were initially denied by the tax authorities. The Company has provided a full valuation allowance for refundable IVA for the period from inception through 2008.
During 2009, the Company was successful in establishing the validity of its claims and received IVA refunds in the amount of $1.1 million. Furthermore, it appears that the tax authorities will honor the Company’s claims for substantially all of
the IVA paid during 2009 and any future years. Amounts recorded as IVA taxes receivable and payable in the consolidated financial statements represent the estimated recoverable payments made during 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
Mineral Acquisition Costs: The costs of acquiring land and mineral rights are considered tangible assets. Significant
acquisition payments are capitalized. General, administrative and holding costs to maintain an exploration property are expensed as incurred. If a mineable ore body is discovered, such capitalized costs are amortized when production begins
using the units-of-production method. If no mineable ore body is discovered or such rights are otherwise determined to have diminished value, such costs are expensed in the period in which the determination is made. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Exploration Costs: Exploration costs are charged to expense as
incurred. Costs to identify new mineral resources, to evaluate potential resources, and to convert mineral resources into proven and probable reserves are considered exploration costs. 
Design, Construction, and Development Costs: Certain costs to design and construct mine and processing
facilities may be incurred prior to establishing proven and probable reserves. Under these circumstances, the Company classifies a project as an exploration stage project and expenses substantially all costs, including design, engineering,
construction, and installation of equipment. Certain types of equipment, which have alternative uses or significant salvage value, may be capitalized. If a project is determined to contain proven and probable reserves, costs incurred in
anticipation of production can be capitalized. Such costs include development drilling to further delineate the ore body, removing overburden during the pre-production phase, building access ways, constructing facilities, and installing
equipment. Interest costs, if any, incurred during the development phase, would be capitalized until the assets are ready for their intended use. The cost of start-up activities and ongoing costs to maintain production are expensed as
incurred. Costs of abandoned projects are charged to operations upon abandonment.  If a project commences commercial
production and the project is determined to contain proven and probable reserves, amortization and depletion of capitalized costs is computed on a unit-of–production basis over the expected reserves of the project based on estimated recoverable
gold equivalent ounces.  Property and Equipment: All items of property and equipment are carried at cost not in
excess of their estimated net realizable value. Normal maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred while expenditures for major maintenance and betterments are capitalized. Gains or losses on disposition are recognized in
operations. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using straight-line methods over the estimated economic lives, as follows:   






 Trucks and autos
  
4 to 5 years

 Office furniture and equipment
  
5 to 10 years

 Machinery & equipment
  
6 to 8 years

 Buildings
  
20 to 30 years
 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: The Company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment
when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Asset impairment is considered to exist if the total estimated future cash flows on an undiscounted basis are less than the carrying amount of
the asset. Any impairment losses are measured and recorded based on discounted estimated future cash flows and are charged to income on the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. In estimating future cash flows, assets are
grouped at the lowest level for which there is identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of future cash flows from other asset groups. The Company’s estimates of future cash flows are based on numerous assumptions, including expected
gold and other commodity prices, production levels, capital requirements and estimated salvage values. It is possible that actual future cash flows will be significantly different than the estimates, as actual future quantities of recoverable
minerals, gold and other commodity prices, production levels and costs and capital are each subject to significant risks and uncertainties. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s mineral resources do not meet the definition of proven or
probable reserves or value beyond proven and probable reserves and any potential revenue has been excluded from the cash flow assumptions. Accordingly, recoverability of capitalized cost is based primarily on estimated salvage values or
alternative future uses.  Asset Retirement Obligations: The Company’s mining and exploration activities are
subject to various laws and regulations, including legal and contractual obligations to reclaim, remediate, or otherwise restore properties at the time the property is removed from service. A liability is initially recorded at the estimated
present value for an obligation associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. For exploration stage properties that do not qualify for
asset capitalization, the costs associated with the obligation are charged to operations. For development and production stage properties, the costs are added to the capitalized costs of the property and amortized using the units-of-production
method.  Treasury Stock: Treasury stock represents shares of the Company’s common stock which has been
repurchased on the open market at the prevailing market price at the time of purchase. Treasury stock is shown at cost as a separate component of equity as a deduction from total capital stock. 
  46 


Table of Contents
Revenue Recognition: Sales of all metals products sold directly to the
Company’s metals concentrate buyer, including by-product metals, are recorded as revenue when title and risk of loss transfer to the buyer (generally at the time shipment is delivered at buyer’s port) at estimated forward prices for the
anticipated month of settlement. Due to the time elapsed between shipment and the final settlement with the buyer, the Company must estimate the prices at which sales of metals will be settled. At the end of each financial reporting period,
previously recorded provisional sales are adjusted to estimated settlement metals prices until final settlement with the buyer. 
Sales to the Company’s buyer are recorded net of charges for treatment, refining, smelting losses, and other charges negotiated by
the Company with the buyer. Charges are estimated upon shipment of concentrates based on contractual terms, and actual charges do not vary materially from estimates. Costs charged by smelters include a metals payable fee, fixed treatment and
refining costs per ton of concentrate.  Changes in metals prices on the London Bullion Market between shipment and final
settlement will result in adjustments to revenues related to sales of concentrate previously recorded upon shipment. Concentrate sales, which are initially recorded based on estimated forward pricing, contain an embedded derivative that is
required to be separated from the host contract for accounting purposes. The host contract is the receivable from the sale of the concentrates at the forward price at the time of the sale. The embedded derivative, which does not qualify for hedge
accounting, is adjusted to market through earnings each period prior to final settlement.  Changes in the market price of
metals significantly affect the Company’s revenues, results of operations and cash flow. Metals prices can and often do fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, such as political and economic
conditions, demand, forward selling by producers, expectations for inflation, custom smelter activities, the relative exchange rate of the U.S. dollar, investor sentiment, and global mine production levels. The aggregate effect of these factors is
impossible to predict. Because the Company’s revenue is derived from the sale of gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc, its results of operations are directly related to the prices of these metals. 
Stock Based Compensation: The Company records compensation expense for the fair value of stock options that are
granted. Expense is recognized on a pro-rata basis over the vesting periods, if any, of the options. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model, which requires the
input of subjective assumptions including expected volatility, risk-free interest rates, the expected life of the option dividend yields and expected forfeitures and cancellations. Expected volatility is based on the historical price volatility
of the Company’s common stock. Risk-free interest rates are based on U.S. government obligations with a term approximating the expected life of the option. The expected life is estimated in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 107, “Share-Based Payment” for plain vanilla options. The Company paid dividends beginning in July 2010 and, accordingly, a dividend yield was considered in calculating the grant date fair value of options granted subsequent
to that date; however, no dividend yield was considered for options granted prior to July 2010. Based on historical experience, forfeitures and cancellations are not significant.
Comprehensive Income (Loss): Total comprehensive income (loss) and the components of accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) are presented in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is composed of foreign currency translation adjustment effects. 
Income Taxes: Income taxes are computed using the liability method. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial and tax reporting purposes and the effect of net operating loss and foreign tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets are evaluated to determine if
it is more likely than not that they will be realized. Net Income (Loss) Per Share: Basic net income (loss) per share
is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Diluted income per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if potentially dilutive securities, as
determined using the treasury stock method, are converted into common stock. Potentially dilutive securities, such as stock options and warrants, are excluded from the calculation when their inclusion would be anti-dilutive, such as periods when a
net loss is reported or when the exercise price of the instrument exceeds the fair market value.  Fair Value of Financial
Instruments: ASC 825, “Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments,” requires disclosure of fair value information about financial instruments. ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurements” defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about 
  47 


Table of Contents

fair value measurements. Fair value estimates are based upon certain market assumptions and pertinent information available to management as of the balance sheet date. The Company’s
financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents investments in gold and silver bullion, accounts receivable, and accounts payable as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable
and accounts payable approximated their fair values at December 31, 2011 due to their short maturities. See also Note 2, “Gold and Silver Bullion.”  Foreign Operations: The Company’s reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. The Company’s present mining activities are in Mexico and the majority of its revenues and expenses at its
Mexican subsidiaries are denominated in the Mexican peso. As with all types of international business operations, currency fluctuations, exchange controls, restrictions on foreign investment, changes to tax regimes, political action and
political instability could impair the value of the Company’s investments.  Foreign Currency Translation Gain (Loss)
and Foreign Currency Transaction Gain (Loss): The local currency where the Company’s properties are located, the Mexican peso, is the functional currency for the Company’s subsidiaries. However, while these subsidiaries incur
expenses in the Mexican peso, these subsidiaries also receive revenue in U.S. dollars which is converted to Mexican pesos when recorded. In addition, during 2011, the Company’s Mexican subsidiaries repaid intercompany loans, which were stated
in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, the financial statements of these subsidiaries must be re-measured into the entity’s functional currency prior to translation and consolidation. Currency exchange adjustments arising during this process are
included in the determination of net income.  Upon translating the financial statements of the Company’s foreign
subsidiaries, assets and liabilities are translated using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. Intercompany equity accounts are translated using historical rates. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average
exchange rate for the year. Translation adjustments are not included in the determination of net income or loss for the period and are reported as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. 
Gains and losses generated by transactions denominated in foreign currencies are reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement
of operations in the period in which they occur.  Concentration of Credit Risk: During the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, all of the Company’s revenues and accounts receivable were the result of sales to two subsidiaries of the Trafigura Group Company: Consorcio Minero de Mexico Cormin Mex. S.A. de C.V. (“Consorcio”) and
Trafigura Beheer, B.V. (“Beheer”) of Lucerne Switzerland. Sales to Consorcio and Beheer are made under separate contracts with different contract terms. The Company has carefully considered and assessed the credit risk resulting from its
concentrate sales arrangements with Consorcio and Beheer and believes it is not exposed to significant credit risk in relation to the counterparty meeting its contractual obligations as it pertains to its trade receivables during the ordinary course
of business. In the event that the Company’s relationship with Consorcio or Beheer is interrupted for any reason, it believes that it would be able to locate another entity to purchase the metals concentrate and by-product
metals. However, any interruption could temporarily disrupt the Company’s sale of its principal products and adversely affect operating results. The Company did not generate revenue during the year ended December 31, 2009. 
The Company’s El Aguila Project, which is located in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, accounted for 100% of the Company’s
total sales of metals concentrate for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Some of the Company’s operating
cash balances are maintained in accounts that currently exceed federally insured limits. The Company believes that the financial strength of depositing institutions mitigate the underlying risk of loss. To date, these concentrations of
credit risk have not had a significant impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.  Recently
Adopted Accounting Standards: The Company evaluates the pronouncements of various authoritative accounting organizations, primarily the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”), and the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”), to determine the impact of new pronouncements on U.S. GAAP and the impact on the Company. The Company has adopted the following new accounting standards during 2011:
 Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2010-06, was issued in January 2010, and clarifies existing
disclosures of inputs and valuation techniques for Level 2 and 3 fair value measurements. The disclosure of activity within Level 3 fair value measurements was effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim
periods within those years. There was no impact to the Company’s financial position or results of operations for the additional disclosure requirements in 2011. 
  48 


Table of Contents
ASU No. 2010-13 was issued in April 2010, and clarifies the classification of an
employee share-based payment award with an exercise price denominated in the currency of a market in which the underlying security trades. This ASU was effective for the first fiscal quarter beginning after December 15, 2010, with early
adoption permitted. The impact to the Company’s financial position and results of operations for the adoption of this guidance was immaterial.  ASU 2010-29 was issued in December 2010 and requires a public entity to disclose pro forma information for business combinations that occurred in the current reporting period. The disclosures include pro
forma revenue and earnings of the combined entity for the current reporting period as though the acquisition date for all business combinations that occurred during the year had been as of the beginning of the annual reporting period. This ASU was
effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. There was no impact to the Company’s financial position, results
of operations or cash flows as a result of adopting this guidance.  Recently Issued Accounting Standards
Updates: The following accounting standards updates were recently issued and have not yet been adopted by the
Company. These standards are currently under review to determine their impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, “Fair Value Measurements (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and
IFRSs” (“ASU 2011-04”). ASU 2011-04 changes the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements to ensure consistency between
U.S. GAAP and IFRS. ASU 2011-04 also expands the disclosures for fair value measurements that are estimated using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs. This new guidance is to be applied prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning
after December 15, 2011. The Company anticipates that the adoption of this standard will not materially expand its consolidated financial statement footnote disclosures or have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, “Comprehensive Income (ASC
Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income” (“ASU 2011-05”), which amends current comprehensive income guidance. This accounting update eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the
statement of shareholders’ equity. Instead, the Company must report comprehensive income in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income which contains two sections, net income and other comprehensive income, or in two separate
but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 will be effective for public companies during the interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted the provisions of ASU 2011-05 with no
impact to the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as it only required a change in the format of the current presentation.  There were various other updates recently issued, most of which represented technical corrections to the accounting literature or application to specific industries. None of the updates are expected
to a have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
2.         Gold and Silver Bullion 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company invested a portion of its treasury in physical gold and silver bullion. The
bullion was purchased to diversify the Company’s treasury and may also be used in conjunction with a potential program offering shareholders the ability to receive gold and silver bullion in lieu of cash payment of dividends. It is expected
that the bullion will be minted into coins. Since ASC Topic 815 does not consider gold and silver to be readily convertible to cash, the Company carries this asset at the lower of cost or market. The table below shows the balance of the
Company’s holdings as of December 31, 2011: 
  49 


Table of Contents
 












 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Gold
 
  
Silver
 

 
  
(in thousands, except ouncesand per ounce)
 

 Ounces
  
 
868
  
  
 
41,728
  

 Average cost per ounce
  
$
1,720.93
  
  
$
35.55
  

 Fair value per ounce
  
$
1,574.50
  
  
$
28.32
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cost
  
$
1,494
  
  
$
1,484
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total fair value
  
$
1,367
  
  
$
1,182
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 ASC 820: Fair Value Measurement (“ASC 820”) establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an
entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The fair value measurement of each class of assets and liabilities is dependent upon its categorization within the fair value
hierarchy, based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement of each class of asset and liability. Pursuant to the GAAP fair value hierarchy established in ASC 820, the fair value of the Company’s gold and
silver bullion is established based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1); specifically, the fair value is based on the daily London P.M. fix as of December 31, 2011. The unrealized loss of $429,000
was included in the Company’s other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2011.  3. Inventories
Inventories at December 31, 2011 and 2010 consist of the following: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Ore stockpiles
  
$
1,629
  
  
$
1,825
  

 Concentrate
  
 
663
  
  
 
15
  

 Materials and supplies
  
 
1,951
  
  
 
1,223
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total inventories
  
$
4,243
  
  
$
3,063
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the ore stockpile inventories consisted of approximately 140,000
tonnes and 136,000 tonnes of ore, respectively, and were carried at cost. The stockpiled ore as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of ore from the underground mine and the open pit mine. Underground ore is more costly to mine than open pit
ore.  4. Mineral Properties The Company currently has an interest in six properties all within the State of Oaxaca, Mexico, the El Aguila Project, the El Rey property, the Las Margaritas property, the
Solaga property, the Alta Gracia property and the El Chamizo property. The El Aguila and El Aire concessions make up the El Aguila Project and the La Tehuana concession makes up the Las
Margaritas property. All properties are located within trucking distance to the El Aguila mill.  The
El Aguila Project: Effective October 14, 2002, the Company leased three mining concessions, El Aguila, El Aire, and La Tehuana. The lease agreement is subject to a 4% net smelter
return royalty where production is sold in the form of gold/silver dore and 5% for production sold in concentrate form. Subject to minimum exploration requirements, there is no expiration term for the lease. The Company may terminate the
lease at any time upon written notice to the lessor and the lessor may terminate the lease if the Company fails to fulfill any of its obligations. The Company subsequently acquired two additional concessions, El Chacal and El Pilon,
totaling 1,445 hectares, from the same third party, who is entitled to receive a 2% royalty on future production.  The Company
has filed for and received additional concessions for the El Aguila Project that total an additional 17,639 hectares. These additional concessions are not part of the concessions discussed above. The Company’s total interest in the
El Aguila Project aggregates 20,055 hectares.
  50 


Table of Contents
The El Rey Property: The Company acquired property in 2004
in another area of Oaxaca by filing concessions under the Mexican mining laws, referred to by the Company as the El Rey property. These concessions total 892 hectares and are subject to a 2% royalty on production payable to a third
party. The Company has conducted limited exploration and drilling on this property and is evaluating additional exploration which includes an underground drill program utilizing existing historic workings and refurbishment of an existing mine shaft.
 The El Rey property is an exploration stage property with no known reserves. It is approximately 64 kilometers
(40 miles) from the El Aguila Project. There is no plant or equipment on the El Rey property. If exploration is successful, any mining would probably require an underground mine but any mineralized material could be
transported by truck and processed at the El Aguila Project mill.  The Las Margaritas
Property: The Las Margaritas property is made up of the La Tehuana concession. The Company leased this property in October 2002. It is comprised of approximately 925 hectares located adjacent to the El Aguila
property. To date, the Company has conducted limited surface sampling, geologic mapping and has defined drill targets for a future exploration drill program.  The Solaga Property: In February 2007, the Company leased a 100% interest in a property known as the Solaga property for a primary term of eight years and may be
held by production thereafter. The property totals 618 hectares and is located approximately 120 kilometers (75 miles) from the El Aguila Project. A dormant silver mine is located on the Solaga property, which was in production as
recently as the 1980’s; however, the Company cannot estimate if or when the mine will reopen. The lease requires the Company to perform $25,000 in additional work and, beginning in 2010, the lease is subject to a minimum advance royalty of
$10,000 per year prior to production. The lease is also subject to a 4% net smelter return royalty on any production. To date, the Company has conducted limited surface sampling, geologic mapping and has defined drill targets for a future
exploration drill program.  The Alta Gracia Property: In August 2009, the Company
acquired property adjacent to the Las Margaritas property in the Alta Gracia mining district by filing concessions under the Mexican mining laws. The Company refers to this property as the Alta Gracia property. These
properties are comprised of three mining concessions, the David 1, the David 2 and La Hurradura. The concessions total 5,175 hectares. The Company has conducted limited surface sampling, geologic mapping and drilling
initial targets.  The El Chamizo Property: In June 2011, the Company acquired an
additional property between the El Rey property and Alta Gracia property by staking mineral claims consisting of approximately 26,386 hectares (101 square miles) which it refers to as the “El
Chamizo” property. With the acquisition of El Chamizo, the Company has extended its land position along what is known as the San Jose structural corridor to 48 kilometers. There has been
no exploration activity at El Chamizo to date.  As of December 31, 2011, none of the
mineralized material at the Company’s properties met the SEC’s definition of proven or probable reserves.  5. Property and
Equipment At December 31, 2011 and 2010, property and equipment consisted of the following: 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Trucks and autos
  
$
1,095
  
 
$
835
  

 Office building
  
 
1,737
  
 
 
1,737
  

 Furniture and equipment
  
 
1,768
  
 
 
1,506
  

 Machinery and equipment
  
 
7,245
  
 
 
1,442
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
11,845
  
 
 
5,520
  

 Accumulated depreciation
  
 
(1,527
) 
 
 
(671
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total property, plant and equipment, net
  
$
10,318
  
 
$
4,849
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $856,000, $324,000
and $167,000, respectively. The Company evaluates the recoverability of property and equipment when events and circumstances indicate that such assets might be impaired. 
  51 


Table of Contents
6. Income Taxes The Company files income taxes on an entity basis and thus Gold Resource Corporation files as a U.S. corporation (“U.S. Operations”) and the Company’s subsidiaries (collectively
“Mexico Operations”) file as Mexican corporations.  The calculation of income taxes expense for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010 consists of the following:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Current taxes:
  



 




 Income tax expense
  
$
18,577
  
 
$
—  
  

 Extraordinary item income tax benefit
  
 
(750
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current taxes
  
$
17,827
  
 
$
—  
  

 Deferred taxes:
  



 




 U.S. Operations
  
$
(4,377
) 
 
$
2,749
  

 Mexico Operations
  
 
(483
) 
 
 
4,766
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred taxes
  
$
(4,860
) 
 
$
7,515
  

 Change in deferred tax assets
  
 
2,820
  
 
 
—  
  

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
(28,574
) 
 
 
(7,515
) 

 Tax related to extraordinary item
  
 
750
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total taxes
  
$
(12,037
) 
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 During the year ended December 31, 2011, Don David Gold incurred a current income tax liability of
$17.8 million, which reflects the Mexico income tax on the taxable income after the utilization of the previously existing net operating loss carry-forward of approximately $7.3 million. 
Net income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary item, segregated as to the U.S. and Mexico operations components, is as follows:
  
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 U.S. Operations
  
$
(11,443
) 
 
$
(7,187
) 
 
$
(2,947
) 

 Mexico Operations
  
 
59,531
  
 
 
(15,887
) 
 
 
(31,182
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary item
  
$
48,088
  
 
$
(23,074
) 
 
$
(34,129
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 A reconciliation of taxes reported at the Company’s effective tax rate and the U.S. federal
statutory tax rate of 35% is comprised of the following components: 
  52 


Table of Contents
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Tax at statutory rates
  
$
15,987
  
 
$
(8,076
) 
 
$
(11,604
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (reduction) in taxes due to:
  



 



 




 U.S. Operations — state income tax impact
  
 
(372
) 
 
 
(234
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Mexico Operations — tax rate impact
  
 
(2,856
) 
 
 
794
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
208
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total increase (reduction) in taxes
  
 
(3,020
) 
 
 
561
  
 
 
—  
  

 Change in deferred tax assets
  
 
2,820
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
(28,574
) 
 
 
7,515
  
 
 
11,604
  

 Tax related to extraordinary item
  
 
750
  
 



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tax provision
  
$
(12,037
) 
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The Company operates in the U.S. and in Mexico tax jurisdictions. The Company, on an entity-by-entity
basis, evaluates the evidence available to determine whether a valuation allowance is required on the deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the balances of the valuation allowance were $4.6 million and $33.2 million, respectively.
For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Don David Gold deferred tax asset attributable to its net operating loss carryforward of $7.3 million was fully utilized. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company determined that the deferred tax
assets of Don David Gold and the U.S. parent were “more likely than not” recoverable and recorded a reduction in the valuation allowance of $28.3 million. Management’s assessment was based on the increased Don David Gold 2011 gross
profits and net income, a continued favorable outlook for metal prices and the projected 2012 payment of dividends (which is treated as dividend income for income tax purposes) to the U.S. parent. 
As of December 31, 2011, a valuation allowance has been established to reduce the carrying value of the Golden Trump Resources
deferred tax assets in recognition of significant uncertainties regarding their ultimate realization.  Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are determined on an entity-by-entity basis based on the differences between the U.S. GAAP financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using the U.S. and Mexico enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the
differences are expected to reverse. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured by applying the provisions of enacted tax laws to determine the amount of taxes payable or refundable currently, or in future years, related to cumulative
temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported in the Company’s balance sheet. These items are generally deductible for tax purposes in different periods and in different amounts than the expense
recognized for financial reporting purposes.  The principal differences between the net incomes (loss) reported for financial
reporting purposes and the taxable income (loss) reported for tax purposes are:   


 
•
 
 U.S. Operations – principally stock based compensation expenses 
 


 
•
 
 Mexico Operations – principally certain expenditures for property and equipment which are capitalized and amortized for tax purposes, but are
expensed for financial reporting purposes; unrealized currency exchange gains (losses) and unrealized provisional pricing mark-to- market gain and loss adjustments. 
The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011 and
2010 are presented below: 
  53 


Table of Contents
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Deferred tax assets
  



 




 Tax loss carryforward
  



 




 U.S. Operations
  
$
10,187
  
 
$
7,399
  

 Mexico Operations
  
 
3,595
  
 
 
23,900
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
15,589
  
 
 
1,378
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
4,404
  
 
 
516
  

 Accrued royalties and other liabilities
  
 
811
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign tax credits
  
 
100
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
593
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
35,279
  
 
 
33,193
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(4,644
) 
 
 
(33,193
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax asset
  
$
30,635
  
 
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011, the U.S. parent has tax loss carry-forwards for U. S. tax purposes
approximating $26.7 million, which expire between 2026 and 2029.  The Company has no uncertain tax provisions that are
required to be disclosed.  7. Asset Retirement Obligations  The Company’s asset retirement obligation (“ARO”) relates to the estimated reclamation, remediation, and closure costs for its El Aguila Project. The following table presents
the changes in ARO for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Balance as of January 1,
  
$
2,495
  
 
$
1,992
  

 Reclamation costs
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Revisions in previous estimates
  
 
—  
  
 
 
315
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(296
) 
 
 
120
  

 Accretion
  
 
82
  
 
 
68
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31,
  
$
2,281
  
 
$
2,495
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company’s asset retirement obligation was revised
for a projected increase in costs related to estimated reclamation, remediation and closure costs based on local government requirements. The estimated present value of the incremental obligation amounted to $315,000, all of which was charged
to operations during 2010. There were no other liability additions, liability settlements, or revision in estimated cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010.  8. Commitments and Contingencies  The Company leased office space in
Denver, Colorado under an agreement that expired in February 2011 and was not replaced or renewed. It has no other operating or capital leases. Rent expense for 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $6,000, $30,700 and $34,800, respectively. 
The Company has entered into certain employment agreements with senior executive employees and key management employees. Under these
agreements, the Company paid employee salary compensation of $1.8 million in 2011 and will have a contractual obligation to pay employee salary compensation of $1.9 million and $0.9 million in 2012 and 2013, respectively. 
9. Shareholders’ Equity All of the financial information in this report has been adjusted to reflect the effect of the two-for-one stock split that was effective February 21, 2005, whereby the Company declared and effected
a 100% forward stock split where one additional share of common stock, par value $0.001, was issued for each common share outstanding as of that date. 
  54 


Table of Contents
The common stock transactions for the period from Inception (August 24, 1998) to
December 31, 2011 were as follows:   
































 Year
  
 Description
  
Price pershare
 
  
Number ofCommonShares
 
  
ParValue ofCommonShares
 
  
Additional Paid-inCapital
 
 
TotalCommonStockTransactions
 
  
 
 

 Balance at Inception, August 24, 1998
  



  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  













 1998
  
Shares for contributed capital — related party
  
$
0.005
  
  
 
2,800,000
  
  
$
3
  
  
$
(1
) 
 
$
2
  
  
 
(a
) 

 1999
  
Shares for contributed capital — related parties
  
$
0.005
  
  
 
1,000,000
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(a
) 

 2000
  
Shares issued for management contract — related party
  
$
0.170
  
  
 
1,226,666
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
203
  
 
 
204
  
  
 
(b
) 

 2001
  
Shares issued for management contract — related party
  
$
0.140
  
  
 
1,333,334
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
187
  
 
 
188
  
  
 
(b
) 

 2001
  
Conversion of debentures at — related party
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
200,000
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
50
  
 
 
51
  
  
 
(c
) 

 2001
  
Sale of shares for cash
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
820,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
204
  
 
 
204
  
  
 
(d
) 

 2002
  
Shares issued for cash
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
392,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
98
  
 
 
98
  
  
 
(d
) 

 2002
  
Shares issued for cash
  
$
0.170
  
  
 
1,351,352
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
223
  
 
 
225
  
  
 
(d
) 


  
Net (loss)
  



  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  




 2003
  
Shares issued for cash
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
577,000
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
144
  
 
 
145
  
  
 
(d
) 

 2003
  
Shares issuance costs forgiven
  



  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
25
  
 
 
25
  
  
 
(e
) 

 2004
  
Shares issued for cash
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
608,000
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
151
  
 
 
152
  
  
 
(d
) 

 2004
  
Shares issued in repayment of loan related to exploration agreement
  
$
0.420
  
  
 
1,200,000
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
499
  
 
 
500
  
  
 
(f
) 

 2004
  
Shares issued as stock grant
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
600,000
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
148
  
 
 
149
  
  
 
(g
) 

 2005
  
Stock grant
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
1,750,000
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
436
  
 
 
438
  
  
 
(g
) 

 2005
  
Stock option exercised
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
10,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
2
  
  
 
(h
) 

 2005
  
Stock issued for cash
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
276,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
69
  
 
 
69
  
  
 
(d
) 

 2005
  
Stock issued for satisfaction of payables
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
1,280,000
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
319
  
 
 
320
  
  
 
(b
) 

 2005
  
Shares issued for cash
  
$
0.470
  
  
 
2,728,500
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
1,272
  
 
 
1,275
  
  
 
(i
) 

 2005
  
Shares issued for cash
  
$
0.500
  
  
 
122,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
61
  
 
 
61
  
  
 
(d
) 

 2005
  
Shares issued for cash
  
$
0.500
  
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
15
  
 
 
15
  
  
 
(d
) 

 2006
  
Stock options exercised
  
$
0.250
  
  
 
240,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
60
  
 
 
60
  
  
 
(h
) 

 2006
  
Stock options granted
  



  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
147
  
 
 
147
  
  
 
(h
) 

 2006
  
Director stock grant
  
$
1.000
  
  
 
100,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
100
  
 
 
100
  
  
 
(g
) 

 2006
  
Shares issued for cash, net of issue costs
  
$
1.000
  
  
 
4,600,000
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
4,347
  
 
 
4,352
  
  
 
(j
) 

 2006
  
Shares issued for investor relations services
  
$
1.140
  
  
 
280,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
320
  
 
 
320
  
  
 
(k
) 

 2006
  
Shares issued for cash, net of issue costs of $258
  
$
1.200
  
  
 
4,322,000
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
4,924
  
 
 
4,928
  
  
 
(d
) 

 2006
  
Shares issued for investment banking services
  
$
1.200
  
  
 
257,700
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(l
) 

 2006
  
Employee stock grants
  
$
1.710
  
  
 
35,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
60
  
 
 
60
  
  
 
(g
) 

 2007
  
Shares issued for investor relations services
  
$
3.390
  
  
 
170,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
576
  
 
 
576
  
  
 
(k
) 

 2007
  
Share issued for consulting services
  
$
3.650
  
  
 
15,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
55
  
 
 
55
  
  
 
(m
) 

 2007
  
Stock options granted
  



  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
99
  
 
 
99
  
  
 
(h
) 

 2007
  
Shares issued for cash, net of finders’ fee of $522
  
$
4.000
  
  
 
5,558,500
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
21,707
  
 
 
21,712
  
  
 
(d
) 

 2007
  
Shares issued for investment banking services
  



  
 
263,900
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(n
) 

 2008
  
Stock options granted
  



  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,957
  
 
 
1,957
  
  
 
(h
) 

 2008
  
Shares issued for investor relations services
  
$
4.250
  
  
 
10,000
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
42
  
 
 
42
  
  
 
(k
) 

 2008
  
Stock options exercised
  
$
1.000
  
  
 
260,604
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
181
  
 
 
181
  
  
 
(h
) 

 2008
  
Shares issued for cash
  
$
3.000
  
  
 
1,670,000
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
5,008
  
 
 
5,010
  
  
 
(o
) 


  

  

  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 Balance at December 31, 2008
  



  
 
36,087,556
  
  
$
36
  
  
$
43,687
  
 
$
43,722
  
  





  

  

  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  



  


(a) 
 During 1998 and 1999, William W. Reid and David C. Reid (the “Founders”) received 3,800,000 shares of common stock valued at $2,000 for
administrative and organization expenses.   


(b) 
 From July 1, 2000 through December 31, 2001, US Gold Corporation, now known as McEwen Mining Inc., a publicly traded Colorado corporation,
(“US Gold”) provided general management of the business activities of the Company pursuant to a management contract. Under this management contract, US Gold was issued 2,560,000 shares of its common stock valued at $392,000, or
approximately $0.15 per share during 2000 and 2001. Additionally, in June 2005, the Company issued 1,280,000 shares to US Gold in satisfaction of $320,000 owed related to this management contract. 
 


(c) 
 During 2001, the Founders made convertible debenture loans to the Company in the amount of $50,000 and later converted those debentures into 200,000
shares of common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $0.25 per share.   


(d) 
 From time to time, the Company has sold its common stock to third parties under exemptions offered by federal state and securities regulations. The
following table summarizes these sales from inception through December 31, 2008: 
  55 


Table of Contents
 












 Year
  
Number of sharessold for cash
 
  
GrossProceeds
 

 2001
  
 
820,000
  
  
$
204,000
  

 2002
  
 
392,000
  
  
 
98,000
  

 2002
  
 
1,351,352
  
  
 
225,000
  

 2003
  
 
577,000
  
  
 
145,000
  

 2004
  
 
608,000
  
  
 
152,000
  

 2005
  
 
276,000
  
  
 
69,000
  

 2005
  
 
152,000
  
  
 
76,000
  

 2006
  
 
4,322,000
  
  
 
5,186,000
  

 2007
  
 
5,558,500
  
  
 
22,234,000
  
  


(e) 
 On September 30, 2003, US Gold acquired shares from one of the Company’s major shareholders in exchange for US Gold shares and terminated the
obligation of the Company to pay that shareholder approximately $25,000 in transaction costs, which was added back into paid-in-capital.   


(f) 
 During 2004, the Company issued 1,200,000 shares valued at approximately $0.42 per share to Canyon Resource Corporation for repayment of a loan for
funding of exploration cost at the El Aguila property.  


(g) 
 From time to time, the Company has made stock grants to certain directors, employees and consultants, as reflected in the amounts herein.
  


(h) 
 See Footnote 10 “Stock Options” for further discussion of stock option activity. 
 


(i) 
 During July and August 2005, the Company closed transactions under a Subscription Agreement and Stock Purchase Option Agreement with Heemskirk
Consolidated Limited (“Heemskirk”), an Australian global mining house, whereby Heemskirk purchased 2,000,000 shares of common stock of the Company at $0.50 per share. A finder’s fee of 140,000 shares was paid to a third party
(resulting in a net value of $0.47 per share). Heemskirk had previously purchased (in April, 2005) 150,000 shares of common stock at $0.50 per share and the Company had paid a finder’s fee of 10,500 shares. The Company agreed to give
Heemskirk a first right of offer for any financings, including sale of equity, the Company may pursue. In a similar transaction during August 2005, the Company sold 400,000 shares to another investor raising $200,000 and paid a finder’s
fee to a third party of 28,000 shares. These transactions resulted in the issuance of 2,728,500 shares for net cash proceeds of $1.3 million ($0.47 per share). 
 


(j) 
 During 2006, the Company sold 4,600,000 shares of common stock at $1.00 per share in a public offering under a registration statement filed with the
SEC that was declared effective on May 15, 2006. The Company received cash proceeds of $4.4 million (net of finders’ fees of $249,000).   


(k) 
 During 2006 and 2007, the Company issued shares in conjunction with investor relations services agreements. 
 


(l) 
 During 2007, the Company issued 257,700 shares of common stock as finders’ fees in connection with a private placement of 4.3 million shares.
  


(m) 
 On October 2, 2007, the Company agreed to issue 15,000 shares of common stock for consulting services performed in Mexico. These shares were
valued at $3.68 per share or $55,000 and were recorded as stock compensation during the year ended December 31, 2007.   


(n) 
 In December 2007, the Company issued 263,900 shares of common stock as finders’ fees in connection with a private placement of 5.6 million
shares.   


(o) 
 On December 5, 2008, the Company entered into a subscription agreement and a strategic alliance agreement with Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited
(“Hochschild”). Under the terms of the subscription agreement, the Company sold 1,670,000 shares of its common stock to Hochschild at $3.00 per share for total cash proceeds of $5.0 million. Under the terms of the strategic
alliance agreement the Company granted Hochschild an option to purchase an additional 4,330,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $3.00 per share for total cash proceeds of $13 million. The option was exercised on February 25,
2009. The strategic alliance agreement also contains a number of additional covenants between the parties. 
  56 


Table of Contents
On June 30, 2009, the Company entered into a subscription agreement with Hochschild to
sell 5,000,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $4.00 per share, or a total of $20 million. The transaction was completed in two tranches. Simultaneously with the execution of the subscription agreement, the Company sold 1,250,000
shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $5 million. The closing for the remaining 3,750,000 shares of common stock was held on July 20, 2009. The Company agreed to reserve $4 million of the gross proceeds for exploration activities.
 On December 17, 2009, the Company entered into a subscription agreement with Hochschild to sell 1,954,795 shares of
restricted common stock at $8.185 per share for gross proceeds of $16 million. The Company agreed to reserve $8 million of the proceeds for underground mining expenses at the La Arista Vein. 
On May 7, 2010, the Company agreed to issue 50,000 shares of common stock to an individual investor. The transaction was valued
at $10.77 per share based upon the quoted market price of the common stock, and consisted of cash proceeds of $231,000, or $4.63 per share, and stock compensation expense of $307,000, or $6.14 per share. 
On March 8, 2010, the Company issued 600,000 restricted shares of common stock at $8.62 per share to Hochschild pursuant to the
strategic alliance agreement. The Company received cash proceeds of $5.2 million.  On May 26, 2010, the Company issued
631,579 restricted shares of common stock at $9.50 per share to Hochschild pursuant to a subscription agreement in connection with the parties’ strategic alliance. The Company received cash proceeds of $6 million. 
On September 23, 2010, the Company completed a financing transaction whereby it sold 3,475,000 shares of restricted common stock at
$16.00 per share for net proceeds of $52 million to various institutional investors. Jefferies & Company Inc. acted as the placement agent in connection with the transaction, and was compensated in the amount of approximately $3.6
million.  No stock issuances occurred during 2011.  Dividends  The Company declared commercial production July 1, 2010
and, between July 1, 2010 and December 31, 2011, has declared monthly cash dividends totaling $0.68 per share of common stock in eighteen dividend payments to shareholders of record. The Company declared dividends of $26.5 million and
paid dividends of $25.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company declared dividends of $9.3 million and paid dividends of $7.7 million, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, the
dividends paid were charged against the Company’s additional paid in capital and were considered return of capital dividend since Gold Resource Corporation, as a stand-alone U.S. corporation, had no current or accumulated tax-basis earnings or
profits. Dividends declared in 2011, to be paid after December 31, 2011, total $2.6 million.  Other Matters 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a $20 million stock repurchase program,
wherein the Company may repurchase its common stock from time to time at the discretion of management in open market transactions at prevailing market prices. The program has no pre-established closing date, may be suspended or discontinued at any
time and does not obligate the Company to repurchase any dollar amount or specific number of shares. Pursuant to this plan, the Company repurchased 104,251shares of its common stock during the year ended December 31, 2011, which are included as
Treasury Stock at Cost on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, the
shareholders of the Company approved an amendment to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation to increase the authorized amount of common stock to 100,000,000 shares and the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under its
Non-Qualified Stock Option and Stock Grant Plan to 10 million shares. 
  57 


Table of Contents
10. Stock Options The Company has a non-qualified stock option and stock grant plan under which equity awards may be granted to key employees, directors and others (the “Plan”). The Plan is administered by
the Board of Directors, which determines the terms pursuant to which any option is granted. The maximum amount of common stock subject to grant under the Plan is 10 million shares. As of December 31, 2011, there were 3.1 million
shares available for future grant under the Plan.  A summary of activity under the Plan as of December 31, 2011 is
presented below:   




















 
 
Shares
 
 
Weighted AverageExercise Price
 
 
Weighted AverageRemaining ContractualTerm (in yrs)
 
 
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding as of January 1, 2011
 
 
4,860,000
  
 
$
7.05
  
 
 
6.94
  
 
$
108,608,200
  

 Granted
 
 
370,000
  
 
 
26.73
  
 



 




 Exercised
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 



 




 Forfeited
 
 
(70,000
) 
 
 
3.74
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Outstanding as of December 31, 2011
 
 
5,160,000
  
 
$
8.51
  
 
 
6.18
  
 
$
70,116,500
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Vested and exercisable as of December 31, 2011
 
 
3,930,000
  
 
$
2.84
  
 
 
5.32
  
 
$
66,865,500
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted during the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010, and 2009 was $15.94, $12.34 and $2.70, respectively. The total fair value of shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $5.4 million, $1.1 million and $2.6 million, respectively. No options were
exercised during 2011 and no cash proceeds were received from the exercise of stock options during 2010. The Company received cash proceeds of $184,000 for options exercised in 2009. 
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2011: 
 


























 
 
 
  
Outstanding
 
  
Exercisable
 

 Range of Exercise Prices
 
  
  
Number ofOptions
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemaining Life(in yrs)
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 
  
Number ofOptions
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 

                 $0.25
 

  
 
1,400,000
  
  
 
2.0
  
  
$
0.25
  
  
 
1,400,000
  
  
$
0.25
  

           $3.40 - $3.95
 

  
 
2,000,000
  
  
 
6.7
  
  
$
3.68
  
  
 
2,000,000
  
  
$
2.19
  

         $10.10 - $27.95
 

  
 
1,760,000
  
  
 
8.9
  
  
$
20.57
  
  
 
530,000
  
  
$
12.13
  


 

  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  





 

  
 
5,160,000
  
  



  



  
 
3,930,000
  
  





 

  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  



 Total non-cash compensation expense related to stock options included in general and administrative
expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $6.6 million, $2.7 million and $2.8 million, respectively. The estimated unrecognized compensation cost from unvested options as of December 31, 2011 was approximately
$14.3 million, which is expected to be recognized over the remaining vesting period of 3 years.  The assumptions used to
determine the value of our stock-based awards under the Black-Scholes method are summarized below:   










 
  
2011
  
2010
  
2009

 Risk-free interest rate
  
1.97% - 3.37%
  
2.64% - 3.07%
  
1.5% - 1.9%

 Dividend yield
  
1.98% - 2.08%
  
0.56% - 2%
  
-

 Expected volatility
  
67.47% - 68.62%
  
71%
  
78% - 81%

 Expected life in years
  
10
  
10
  
5

  58 


Table of Contents
11. Other income (expense)  As of December, 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, other income (expense) consisted of the following:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Currency exchange gain (loss)
  
$
2,732
  
 
$
(330
) 
 
$
—  
  

 Unrealized (loss) from gold/silver bullion held
  
 
(429
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other income (expense)
  
 
9
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Interest income
  
 
102
  
 
 
99
  
 
 
55
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
$
2,414
  
 
$
(235
) 
 
$
    55
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 12. Net Income (Loss) Per Share  Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, as determined by using the calculations below: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net income (loss) before extraordinary item
  
$
60,125
  
 
$
(23,074
) 
 
$
(34,129
) 

 Extraordinary item
  
 
(1,756
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
58,369
  
 
$
(23,074
) 
 
$
(34,129
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares of common stock
  
 
52,979,481
  
 
 
50,042,471
  
 
 
43,764,703
  

 Dilutive effect of stock options
  
 
3,435,173
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Common stock and common stock equivalents
  
 
56,414,654
  
 
 
50,042,471
  
 
 
43,764,703
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic:
  



 



 




 Net income (loss) per basic share before extraordinary item
  
$
1.13
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 

 Extraordinary item
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per basic share
  
$
1.10
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted:
  



 



 




 Net income (loss) per diluted share before extraordinary item
  
$
1.06
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 

 Extraordinary item
  
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per diluted share
  
$
1.03
  
 
$
(0.46
) 
 
$
(0.78
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding plus the effect of dilutive outstanding stock options using the treasury stock method. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the calculation included potential dilution of 57,000 shares underlying exercisable stock options.
Anti-dilutive shares totaling 790,000, 4,860,000 and 3,745,000 in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were not included in the calculation for those years as the effect would have been anti-dilutive. 
13. Extraordinary Item—Flood  On April 20, 2011, the El Aguila Project experienced an anomalous rain and hail storm that was unusual and infrequent to the area and which flooded the La Arista underground mine and
damaged existing roads, buildings and equipment. As a result, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss of $2.5 million, net of income tax benefit of $750,000, during the year ended December 31, 2011. 
  59 


Table of Contents
14. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
The following represents selected information from our unaudited quarterly Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010.   




















 
  
2011
 

 
  
FirstQuarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
ThirdQuarter
 
  
FourthQuarter
 

 Sales of metals concentrate
  
$
11,280
  
 
$
20,664
  
 
$
37,781
  
  
$
35,438
  

 Mine gross profit
  
 
8,843
  
 
 
17,176
  
 
 
31,171
  
  
 
30,016
  

 Operating income
  
 
2,153
  
 
 
6,724
  
 
 
21,871
  
  
 
14,926
  

 Other income
  
 
(120
) 
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
2,476
  
  
 
81
  

 Net income (loss) before extraordinary item
  
 
2,033
  
 
 
4,895
  
 
 
15,216
  
  
 
37,981
  

 Extraordinary item
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,756
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
2,033
  
 
$
3,139
  
 
$
15,216
  
  
$
37,981
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per common share:
  



 



 



  




 Basic:
  



 



 



  




 Before extraordinary item
  
$
0.04
  
 
$
0.09
  
 
$
0.29
  
  
$
0.15
  

 Extraordinary item
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  



 



 



  




 Net income (loss)
  
$
0.04
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
0.29
  
  
$
0.15
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted:
  



 



 



  




 Before extraordinary item
  
$
0.04
  
 
$
0.09
  
 
$
0.27
  
  
$
0.68
  

 Extraordinary item
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(0.03
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  



 



 



  




 Net income (loss)
  
$
0.04
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
0.27
  
  
$
0.68
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares outstanding:
  



 



 



  




 Basic
  
 
52,998,303
  
 
 
52,998,303
  
 
 
52,997,194
  
  
 
52,924,736
  


  



 



 



  




 Diluted
  
 
57,840,414
  
 
 
56,545,865
  
 
 
56,357,096
  
  
 
56,209,896
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















 
  
2010
 

 
  
First Quarter
 
 
SecondQuarter
 
 
Third Quarter
 
 
FourthQuarter
 

 Sales of metals concentrate
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
9,968
  
 
$
4,786
  

 Mine gross profit
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,078
  
 
 
2,721
  

 Operating loss
  
 
(7,290
) 
 
 
(5,821
) 
 
 
(1,143
) 
 
 
(8,585
) 

 Other income
  
 
25
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
(39
) 
 
 
(230
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
(7,265
) 
 
$
(5,812
) 
 
$
(1,182
) 
 
$
(8,815
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per common share:
  



 



 



 




 Basic:
  



 



 



 




 Before extraordinary item
  
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
(0.12
) 
 
$
(0.02
) 
 
$
(0.17
) 

 Extraordinary item
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  



 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
(0.12
) 
 
$
(0.02
) 
 
$
(0.17
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted:
  



 



 



 




 Before extraordinary item
  
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
(0.12
) 
 
$
(0.02
) 
 
$
(0.17
) 

 Extraordinary item
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  



 



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
(0.12
) 
 
$
(0.02
) 
 
$
(0.17
) 


  



 



 



 




 Weighted average common shares outstanding:
  



 



 



 




 Basic
  
 
48,253,617
  
 
 
49,011,275
  
 
 
49,851,542
  
 
 
52,998,303
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
 
48,253,617
  
 
 
49,011,275
  
 
 
49,851,542
  
 
 
52,998,303
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 15. Related Party Transactions  During 2010 and 2009, the Company employed an individual who served as the general manager of the Company’s Mexico operations on a contract consulting basis. This individual was paid $145,000 and
$162,000 for his services as general manager in 2010 and 2009, respectively. After 2010, the Company no longer employed this individual and, accordingly, no 
  60 


Table of Contents

longer considers this individual to be a related party. The Company leased, and continues to lease, portions of the El Aguila, El Rey and Las Margaritas mining concessions from this
individual. This individual is also a part owner in an entity from which the Company leased its interest in the Solaga property. See also the discussion regarding these leases in Note 4, “Mineral Properties.” 
16. Subsequent Events 
On January 26, 2012, the Company declared its instituted monthly dividend of $0.05 per common share payable to its shareholders of record
as of February 10, 2012, and which was paid on February 23, 2012 in the aggregate amount of $2.6 million.  On
February 24, 2012, the Company declared its instituted monthly dividend of $0.05 per common share payable to its shareholders of record as of March 12, 2012, and which is expected to be paid on March 23, 2012 in the aggregate amount
of $2.6 million. 
  61 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
There have been no changes in our accountants during the last two fiscal years, and we have not had any disagreements with our existing
accountants during that time.   


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
We conducted an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means
controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the
time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures also include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a
company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded as of December 31, 2011 that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting: There have been no changes in our internal control over
financial reporting during the most recently completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
 


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION  None. 
PART III  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the information contained in our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (“2012 Proxy Statement”) to
be filed within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  The Company has a code of ethics that
applies to all of its employees, officers and directors. The code of ethics is available on our website at www.goldresourcecorp.com and we will post any amendments to, or waivers, from, the code of ethics on that website. 
Item 11. Executive Compensation  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the information contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement.  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the information contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement. 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the information contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement. 
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the information contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement.

  62 


Table of Contents
  PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  The following exhibits are filed with or incorporated by referenced in this report:   






 Item No.
  
 Description




3.1
  
Articles of Incorporation of the Company as filed with the Colorado Secretary of State on August 24, 1998 (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form SB-2
filed on October 28, 2005, Exhibit 3.1, File No. 333-129321).




3.1.1
  
Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation as filed with the Colorado Secretary of State on September 16, 2005 (incorporated by reference from our registration
statement on Form SB-2 filed on October 28, 2005, Exhibit 3.1.1, File No. 333-129321).




3.1.2
  
Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation as filed with the Colorado Secretary of State on November 8, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our quarterly report on
Form 10-Q filed on November 10, 2010, Exhibit 3.1, File No. 001-34857).




3.2
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company dated August 9, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our current report on Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2010, Exhibit 3.2, File No.
333-129321).




4
  
Specimen stock certificate (incorporated by reference from our amended registration statement on Form SB-2/A filed on March 27, 2006, Exhibit 4, File No.
333-129321).




10.1
  
Exploitation and Exploration Agreement between the Company and Jose Perez Reynoso dated October 14, 2002 (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form SB-2
filed on October 28, 2005, Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.2
  
Amended and Restated Non-Qualified Stock Option and Stock Grant Plan (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form S-8 filed on January 20, 2011, Exhibit
10.1, File No. 333-171779).




10.3
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form SB-2 filed on October 28, 2005, Exhibit 10.3, File No.
333-129321).




10.4
  
Form of Subscription Agreement between the Company and investors in the December 2007 private placement (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated December 5,
2007, Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.5
  
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and William W. Reid (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on
October 22, 2010, Exhibit 10.10, File No. 333-170101).




10.6
  
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and David C. Reid (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on October
22, 2010, Exhibit 10.11, File No. 333-170101).




10.7
  
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and Jason D. Reid (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on October
22, 2010, Exhibit 10.12, File No. 333-170101).




10.8
  
Strategic Alliance Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated December 5, 2008, Exhibit
10.1, File No. 333-129321).

  63 


Table of Contents
 









10.9
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated December 5, 2008 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated
December 5, 2008, Exhibit 10.2, File No. 333-129321).




10.10
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated February 25, 2009 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated February 25,
2009, Exhibit 10.2, File No. 333-129321).




10.11
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated June 30, 2009 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated July 6, 2009,
Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.12
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated December 17, 2009 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated December 23,
2009, Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.13
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated March 8, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated March 10, 2010,
Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.14
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated May 26, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated June 1, 2010,
Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.15
  
Form of Securities Purchase Agreement between the Company and certain purchasers dated September 19, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated September 23,
2010, Exhibit 10.1, File No. 001-34857).




10.16
  
Form of Registration Rights Agreement between the Company and certain purchasers dated September 19, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated September 23,
2010, Exhibit 10.2, File No. 001-34857).




21
  
Subsidiaries of the Company (incorporated by reference from our amended registration statement on Form SB-2/A filed on January 20, 2006, Exhibit 21, File No.
333-129321).




23.1*
  
Consent of StarkSchenkein, LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




31.1*
  
Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for William W. Reid.




31.2*
  
Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for Paul E. Oberman.




32*
  
Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for William W. Reid and Paul E. Oberman.




101*
  
The following financial statements from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 are furnished herewith, formatted in XBRL: (i) the Consolidated Balance
Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Other Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and
(vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
  


*
filed herewith 
  64 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
In accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   











 

 

 
GOLD RESOURCE CORPORATION






Date:    February 29, 2012
 

 

 
/s/ William W. Reid


 

 

 
By: William W. Reid, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
 In accordance with the Exchange Act, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the Company and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 /s/ William W. Reid
  
Chairman of the Board and Principal Executive Officer
  
February 29, 2012

 William W. Reid
  

  






 /s/ Jason D. Reid
  
President and Director
  
February 29, 2012

 Jason D. Reid
  

  






 /s/ Paul E. Oberman
  
Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer
  
February 29, 2012

 Paul E. Oberman
  

  






 /s/ Isac Burstein
  
Director
  
February 29, 2012

 Isac Burstein
  

  






 /s/ Bill M. Conrad
  
Director
  
February 29, 2012

 Bill M. Conrad
  

  






 /s/ Tor Falck
  
Director
  
February 29, 2012

 Tor Falck
  

  


  65 


Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 






 Item No.
  
 Description




3.1
  
Articles of Incorporation of the Company as filed with the Colorado Secretary of State on August 24, 1998 (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form SB-2
filed on October 28, 2005, Exhibit 3.1, File No. 333-129321).




3.1.1
  
Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation as filed with the Colorado Secretary of State on September 16, 2005 (incorporated by reference from our registration statement
on Form SB-2 filed on October 28, 2005, Exhibit 3.1.1, File No. 333-129321).




3.1.2
  
Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation as filed with the Colorado Secretary of State on November 8, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our quarterly report on Form
10-Q filed on November 10, 2010, Exhibit 3.1, File No. 001-34857).




3.2
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company dated August 9, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our current report on Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2010, Exhibit 3.2, File No.
333-129321).




4
  
Specimen stock certificate (incorporated by reference from our amended registration statement on Form SB-2/A filed on March 27, 2006, Exhibit 4, File No.
333-129321).




10.1
  
Exploitation and Exploration Agreement between the Company and Jose Perez Reynoso dated October 14, 2002 (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form SB-2
filed on October 28, 2005, Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.2
  
Amended and Restated Non-Qualified Stock Option and Stock Grant Plan (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form S-8 filed on January 20, 2011, Exhibit 10.1,
File No. 333-171779).




10.3
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form SB-2 filed on October 28, 2005, Exhibit 10.3, File No.
333-129321).




10.4
  
Form of Subscription Agreement between the Company and investors in the December 2007 private placement (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated December 5,
2007, Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.5
  
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and William W. Reid (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on October
22, 2010, Exhibit 10.10, File No. 333-170101).




10.6
  
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and David C. Reid (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on October 22,
2010, Exhibit 10.11, File No. 333-170101).




10.7
  
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and Jason D. Reid (incorporated by reference from our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on October 22,
2010, Exhibit 10.12, File No. 333-170101).




10.8
  
Strategic Alliance Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated December 5, 2008, Exhibit 10.1,
File No. 333-129321).




10.9
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated December 5, 2008 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated December 5,
2008, Exhibit 10.2, File No. 333-129321).




10.10
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated February 25, 2009 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated February 25,
2009, Exhibit 10.2, File No. 333-129321).

  66 


Table of Contents
 









10.11
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated June 30, 2009 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated July 6,
2009, Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.12
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated December 17, 2009 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated December 23,
2009, Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.13
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated March 8, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated March 10, 2010,
Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.14
  
Subscription Agreement between the Company and Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited dated May 26, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated June 1, 2010,
Exhibit 10.1, File No. 333-129321).




10.15
  
Form of Securities Purchase Agreement between the Company and certain purchasers dated September 19, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated September 23,
2010, Exhibit 10.1, File No. 001-34857).




10.16
  
Form of Registration Rights Agreement between the Company and certain purchasers dated September 19, 2010 (incorporated by reference from our report on Form 8-K dated September 23,
2010, Exhibit 10.2, File No. 001-34857).




21
  
Subsidiaries of the Company (incorporated by reference from our amended registration statement on Form SB-2/A filed on January 20, 2006, Exhibit 21, File No.
333-129321).




23.1*
  
Consent of StarkSchenkein, LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




31.1*
  
Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for William W. Reid.




31.2*
  
Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for Paul E. Oberman.




32*
  
Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for William W. Reid and Paul E. Oberman.




101*
  
The following financial statements from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 are furnished herewith, formatted in XBRL: (i) the Consolidated Balance
Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Other Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and
(vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
  


*
filed herewith 
  67 



