
10-K
1
ohr-10k_093011.htm
ANNUAL REPORT







 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
———————
FORM 10-K
———————
(Mark One)
þ  ANNUAL
REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended September 30,
2011
¨  TRANSITION
REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from _______ to
__________.
 
Commission File No: 333-88480
 
———————
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in
its Charter)
———————
 


Delaware
90-0577933

(State or Other Jurisdiction of
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

Incorporation or Organization)
 

 
489 5th Ave., 28th
Floor
New York, NY 10017
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
212-682-8452
Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code
 
 
Securities registered under Section 12(b)
of the Exchange Act: None
Securities registered under to Section 12(g)
of the Exchange Act: None
 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ¨  No þ
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to
file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes ¨  No þ
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for past 90 days. Yes þ  No ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this Chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes þ  No ¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K. Yes þ  No ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated
filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check One): Large accelerated filer ¨
Accelerated filer ¨ Non-accelerated ¨
Smaller reporting company þ
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ¨  No þ
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common
equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was sold at March 31, 2011 was $8,809,796.
For purposes of this disclosure, shares of common stock held by persons who hold more than 5% of the outstanding shares of common
stock and shares held by executive officers and directors of the registrant have been excluded because such persons may be deemed
to be affiliates. The determination of executive officers or affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for
other purposes.
At January 13, 2012, the registrant had 41,535,922 shares of
Common Stock outstanding.
 
 
 

        
Table of Contents

TABLE OF CONTENTS



Part I


Item 1        Description of Business
1

Item 1A     Risk Factors
7

Item 2        Description of Property
14

Item 3        Legal Proceedings
15

Item 4        Reserved
15

Part II


Item 5        Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
16

Item 6        Selected Financial Data
17

Item 7        Managements’ Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
17

Item 7A     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
22

Item 8        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
22

Part III


Item 9        Changes in and Disagreements With
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
42

Item 9A     Controls and Procedures
42

Item 9B     Other Information
43

Item 10      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
43

Item 11      Executive Compensation
45

Item 12      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters
47

Item 13      Certain Relationships, Related Transactions, and Director Independence
48

Item 14      Principal Accountant Fees and Services
48

Part IV


Item 15      Exhibits
49

 


Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002
Exhibit 31

Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002
Exhibit 32

 

       
Table of Contents

Part I
ITEM 1	BUSINESS
Our discussion and analysis of the
business and subsequent discussion of financial conditions may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. Statements that are not historical in nature, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are
forward-looking statements. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,”
“estimates,” “predicts,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,”
“expects,” “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking
statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Such statements are based on currently available
operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties as described in greater
detail in our “Risk Factors” on page 7 of this Annual Report. You are cautioned that these
forward-looking statements reflect management’s estimates only as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to
update these statements, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. Actual future
results, events and trends may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements depending on a variety
of factors, including, but not limited to those set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”). Specifically, and not in limitation of these factors, we may alter our plans, strategies, objectives or
business.
We are a reporting company and file annual,
quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, proxy statements
or other information that we file at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C., 20549.
You can also request copies of these documents by writing to the SEC and paying a fee for the copying costs. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for more information about the operation of the public reference room. Our public filings with the SEC are also
available on the web site maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.
General and Historical
Summary
Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (“we”,
“Ohr”, the “Company” or the “Registrant”) is a Delaware corporation that was organized on August 4,
2009, as successor to, BBM Holdings, Inc., (formerly Prime Resource, Inc., which was organized March 29, 2002) pursuant to a reincorporation
merger.
The Company is a biotechnology rollup company
currently focused on development of the Company’s previously acquired compounds. With the addition of our executive management
team in April 2010, we have shifted our strategy accordingly to focus on the development of our two later stage lead products,
OHR/AVR118 for the treatment of cancer cachexia (multi-symptom wasting disorder), and Squalamine for the treatment of the wet form
of age-related macular degeneration using an eye drop formulation. We acquired OHR/AVR118 in a secured party sale and Squalamine
from the Genaera Liquidating Trust as part of the Company’s previous strategy to create a rollup of undervalued biotechnology
companies and assets.
 
On March 19, 2009, the Company acquired
in a secured party sale all the patents, related intellectual property, clinical data and other assets related to AVR118 (also
known now as OHR/AVR118). OHR/AVR118 is in an ongoing Phase II trial for the treatment of cachexia. The Company also exercised
its option to acquire the new technology and early stage pharmaceutical compounds from Dr. S. Z. Hirschman, who joined the Company
as a consultant and Chief Scientific Advisor.
 
The Company acquired OHR/AVR118 and related
assets in a secured party sale with $100,000 in cash and $500,000 principal amount of 11% convertible secured non-recourse debenture
due June 20, 2011 convertible into common stock at $0.40 per share (the “Convertible Debenture”). The Convertible
Debenture was repaid on December 29, 2010 and all security interests were released. The cash portion of the purchase price was
financed by short-term loans from an affiliate of Orin Hirschman and another current shareholder, which were repaid June 3, 2009.
 
On August 19, 2009, the Company completed the
acquisition of Squalamine, Trodusquemine and related compounds from Genaera Liquidating Trust. The Company paid $200,000 in cash
for the compounds.
 


1
Table of Contents


 
On April 12, 2010, Dr. Irach Taraporewala was
hired as the Company’s full-time CEO and Sam Backenroth was hired as the Company’s Vice President of Business Development
and Interim CFO. In connection with their employment, Mr. Limpert resigned as an officer of the Company.
 
In December 2010, the Company opened a new clinical
site for its ongoing Phase II clinical trial to investigate the efficacy of OHR/AVR118 for the treatment of cancer cachexia at
the Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre.
 
In June 2011, the Company commenced the Squalamine
eye drop program for the treatment of the wet form of macular degeneration. Animal safety and biodistribution data generated using
the eye drop formulation of Squalamine were reported in July 2011.
 
Historical
 
The Registrant under its former name “Prime
Resource, Inc.” completed a public offering of 150,000 shares of its Common Stock in July 2002. Historically, Prime
Resource, Inc. was primarily engaged in group insurance brokerage as well as investment and pension consulting, through its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, Belsen Getty, LLC and Fringe Benefit Analysts, LLC.
On April 30, 2006, Prime Resource,
Inc. transferred substantially all of its assets, essentially becoming a “shell company” without any active business
purpose or active business assets. On March 22, 2007, the Registrant changed its name to “BBM Holdings, Inc.”
(BBM). On March 30, 2007 (the "Effective Date"), Prime Acquisition, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Registrant,
merged with and into Broadband Maritime, Inc. (“Broadband”), a company providing broadband internet service and international
telephone service for the maritime industry. On June 5, 2007, the Registrant announced that it ceased operations and reduced
employment to a small residual force.
As of April 30, 2006, substantially
all the assets (other than approximately $35,000 of cash or other liquid assets and common stock and warrants to purchase common
stock of Lightspace Corporation (the "Lightspace Securities"), having an approximate value of $372,000 as of September 30,
2006) and liabilities of Prime Resource, Inc. were transferred to a private business entity controlled by the principal shareholders
of Prime Resource, Inc. (pre-Merger) in exchange for a reduction in the number of the Registrant's shares held by such shareholders
and other consideration.
On March 30, 2007 (the "Effective
Date"), Prime Acquisition, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Registrant, merged with and into Broadband (the “Merger”),
and the stockholders of Broadband received Common Stock of the Registrant. As a result of the Merger, Broadband was the surviving
corporation and the Registrant's only wholly-owned subsidiary and, formerly, its sole operating entity. Broadband was a telecommunications
engineering and service company offering turnkey, always-on Internet access to commercial shipping fleets. For purposes of accounting,
Broadband was treated as the accounting acquirer and as such these financial statements present the former operations of Broadband
for all periods presented. Immediately prior to the Merger, the Registrant was a “shell company” that did not have
any active business purpose or active business assets.
In connection with the Merger, the Articles
of Incorporation of the Registrant were amended on March 22, 2007, to (1) change its name to "BBM Holdings, Inc."
and (2) increase the total authorized capital stock of the Registrant to 60,000,000 shares, of which 50,000,000 shares were designated
common stock, no par value, and 10,000,000 shares were designated preferred stock, no par value, of which 1,454,090 shares of the
Preferred Stock were designated Series A Preferred Stock (the "Series A Stock"). Prior to the Merger, the Registrant
paid a dividend of one share of Series A Stock per share of Common Stock outstanding. Each share of Series A Stock represents
the right to exchange such share for a pro rata share (among the issued and outstanding Series A Stock) of whatever right,
title and interest is held in the Lightspace Securities. This prorata distribution of the Lightspace Securities took place on June 30,
2008 and the Series A Stock was cancelled.
In addition, in connection with the Merger,
the Registrant changed its fiscal year from December 31 to September 30.
The merger (reverse acquisition) described
above has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in which Broadband was the acquirer for accounting purposes and
BBM was the legal acquirer. No goodwill has been recognized since BBM was a “shell company.”


2
Table of Contents


Broadband, formerly ePCX.com Inc., was
incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. It was formed as a New Hampshire corporation in November 1999. Until
June, 2007, Broadband was a US-based telecommunications service provider. Broadband developed a broadband internet service and
international telephone service for the maritime industry.
Discontinued Operations and Divestment
of Assets
On June 5, 2007, the Company announced
that it ceased its Broadband operations and reduced employment to a small residual force. The Company received notification of
the cancellation of two customer contracts on May 22, 2007 and May 28, 2007, respectively. In addition, the Company’s
largest customer announced that it would suspend further installations of systems on its vessels for a four-month period. The Company
also received notification of the cancellation of a third customer contract on June 1, 2007.
On May 31, 2007, Mary Ellen Kramer
and Zevi Kramer resigned as directors of the Company effective as of such date. The resignations of Ms. Kramer and Mr. Kramer
were not related to any disagreement between them and the Company on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies
or practices. Ms. Kramer continued to serve as the Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer of the Company
until November 1, 2007, the closing of the sale of Broadband’s remaining assets. The Company negotiated with substantially
all of its current vendors to obtain a release of long-term obligations. On October 16, 2007, the Company agreed to sell
substantially all of its assets (primarily intellectual property and technology) relating to broadband services to ships to private
investors for $460,000 pursuant to an asset purchase agreement (the “Asset Purchase Agreement”). The Company completed
the transaction on November 1, 2007, after receiving stockholder approval required under Utah corporate law. In conjunction
with the completion of the asset sale, BBM’s major customer has agreed to release the Company of its obligation to pay accrued
commissions of $45,000 as well as agreeing to withdraw its claim of $420,000.	 
Acquisition of Pharmaceutical Business
On March 19, 2009, the Company acquired
in a secured party sale all the patents, related intellectual property, clinical data and other assets related to AVR118 (renamed
OHR/AVR118). OHR/AVR118 is in an ongoing Phase II trial for the treatment of cachexia. The Company also exercised its option to
acquire the new technology and early stage pharmaceutical compounds from Dr. S. Z. Hirschman, who joined the Company as a consultant
and Chief Scientific Advisor.
The Company acquired the assets in the
secured party sale with $100,000 in cash and by issuing a $500,000 principal amount 11% convertible secured non-recourse debenture
due June 20, 2011, convertible at $0.40 per share (the “Convertible Debenture”). The Convertible Debenture was
secured by the acquired assets. The cash portion of the purchase price was financed by short-term loans from an affiliate of Orin
Hirschman, a director of the Company, and another current shareholder. The Convertible Debenture was paid in full on December 29,
2010 and all security interests were released.
On June 3, 2009, the Company completed
a financing in which the Company sold 5,583,336 Series B preferred shares with 11,166,672 warrants attached. Each share of preferred
stock has the same voting rights of common shareholders and has a conversion feature where Series B preferred shares can be converted
into common shares at the conversion rate of 1 to 1. Warrants included in each unit sold have a 5 year term with a strike price
of $0.18. The Company received $1,005,000 in cash in exchange for the units sold.
On August 19, 2009, the Company completed the
acquisition of Squalamine, Trodusquemine and related compounds from Genaera Liquidating Trust. The Company paid $200,000 in cash
for the compounds.
 
On December 15, 2009, investors exercised
5,583,336 Class G Warrants via a cashless exchange for 4,547,238 shares of the Company’s common stock.
 
On January 15, 2010, the Company completed
a $1,005,000 financing in which the Company issued 5,583,336 common shares to holders of the Class F Warrants who exercised their
warrants at an exercise price of $0.18. Additionally, as an inducement to the holders to exercise the Warrants, the Company issued
5,583,336 Class H warrants to the Class F warrant holders who exercised their Class F Warrants. The Class H Warrants have a 5 year
term with a strike price of $0.55.


3
Table of Contents


On April 12, 2010 the Company hired Dr. Irach
Taraporewala as CEO and Sam Backenroth as Vice President of Business Development and Interim CFO. In connection with the new hires,
Andrew Limpert resigned as an officer of the Company.
 
In December 2010, the Company opened a new clinical
site for its ongoing Phase II clinical trial to investigate the efficacy of OHR/AVR118 for the treatment of cancer cachexia at
the Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre.
 
On December 30, 2010 the Company sold 4,200,000
shares of common stock to a group of institutional and accredited investors for gross proceeds of $1,050,000. In addition, the
investors received 2,520,000 Class I five year warrants to purchase common stock at an exercise price of $0.55 per share.
 
In June 2011, the Company commenced the Squalamine
eye drop program for the treatment of the wet form of macular degeneration. Animal safety and biodistribution data generated using
the eye drop formulation of Squalamine were reported in July 2011.
 
On October 31, 2011, the Company agreed to extend
the term of the 11,985,367 common stock purchase warrants, expiring October 31, 2011, to October 31, 2012, subject to certain amended
provisions. These provisions include removal of the cashless exercise provision and early termination of the extension period in
the event that Ohr’s common stock trades at or above $1.50 for 5 consecutive days. The warrants are exercisable at $1.19.
 
On December 16, 2011, the Company completed
a private placement offering pursuant to which the Company sold 1,833,342 shares of its common stock at a price of $0.60 per share
for gross proceeds of $1,100,000. Purchasers of the shares also received an aggregate of 916,678 Class J Warrants to purchase common
stock at an exercise price of $0.65 per share and exercisable for a period of 5 years.
 
Until the Company is able to generate significant
revenue from its principal operations, it will remain classified as a development stage company. The Company can give no future
assurance that it will be successful in such efforts or that its limited operating funds will be adequate to continue the Company
as a public company, nor is there any assurance of any additional funding being available to the Company. Our independent accountants
have qualified their audit report by expressing doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a “going concern.”
 
Product Pipeline
Squalamine
 
Squalamine is an anti-angiogenic
small molecule with a novel intracellular mechanism of action, that counteracts not only Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor but
also other angiogenic growth factors including Platelet Derived Growth Factor (”PDGF”) and basic Fibroblast Growth
Factor. Recent clinical evidence has shown PDGF to be an additional target for the treatment of Wet Age-related Macular Degeneration
(“Wet-AMD”). Using an intravenous formulation in over 250 patients in Phase I and Phase II trials for the treatment
of Wet-AMD, Squalamine demonstrated safety and biologic effect in both early stage and advanced Wet-AMD. Ohr reformulated
Squalamine for ophthalmic indications from an intravenous infusion (“IV”) to a topical eye drop. The Company plans
on advancing its clinical Wet-AMD program with the novel topical formulation. The topical formulation is designed for enhanced
uptake to the back of the eye and decreased potential for side effects. The previous IV formulation had been awarded fast track
status and a Special Protocol Assessment for a Phase III registration study from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”).
 
In Phase II intravenous
clinical trials, stabilization or improvement in visual activity was observed in the vast majority of patients, with both early
and advanced lesions responding and few drug-related ocular or systemic effects observed. In a number of patients whose Wet-AMD
had progressed to an advanced stage, the administration of Squalamine produced beneficial effects and significant improvement in
best corrected visual acuity (“BCVA”).  As opposed to the approved current standard of care therapy, Squalamine
does not require direct injection into the eye.


4
Table of Contents


 
The Company has conducted preclinical testing
on the novel topical formulation with the following results:

Ocular tolerance and toxicity: In a dose escalation safety study involving daily eye drop treatment in
Dutch belted rabbits over a 28 day period, the formulation proved safe, and exhibited no signs of ocular toxicity or changes in
intraocular pressure. Importantly, no macroscopic or histopathological changes to the ocular tissues were noted.
Biodistribution study: A single eye drop was administered to the front of the eye in Dutch belted
rabbits. At all evaluated timepoints, drug concentrations in the posterior sclera-choroid region behind the retina at the back
of the eye exceeded the tissue concentrations of Squalamine that are known to block the choroidal neovascularization process
in wet-AMD.   The study results also demonstrated that the drug was undetectable in the anterior chamber of the eye (aqueous
humor), confirming that it does not penetrate through all the layers of the cornea or contact the lens.

Additional preclinical testing is being
conducted on the Squalamine eye drop formulation to assess long term safety and ocular tissue biodistribution. The Company expects
to have the results available during fiscal year 2012 and potentially present results at scientific meetings and/or in peer reviewed
publications.
Additionally, Squalamine
has shown promise in the treatment of solid tumors such as ovarian cancer. In a Phase IIa study, patients with stage III and IV
refractory and resistant ovarian cancer received Squalamine in conjunction with another chemotherapeutic agent, with approximately
two thirds of the patients achieving a complete response, partial response or stable disease. In 2001, Squalamine was awarded Orphan
Drug Status by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for the treatment of late stage resistant or refractory ovarian
cancer. Because of funding constraints, Ohr is seeking a development partner to further advance development of this indication.
 
OHR/AVR118
 
OHR/AVR118 is a novel immunomodulator
with a singular chemical structure that is terminally sterilized and endotoxin-free.  The compound is composed of two
small peptides, Peptide A, which is 31 amino acids long, and Peptide B, that is 21 amino acids long. Peptide B is unique in that
the dinucleotide, diadenosine, is covalently attached to serine at position 18 through a phosphodiester bond. OHR/AVR118 is quite
stable and has a favorable safety profile both in animal toxicity studies and in human clinical trials.
 
Ohr is currently conducting a Phase II clinical
trial of OHR/AVR 118 for the treatment of cancer cachexia at a leading cancer center in Canada. Cancer cachexia is a severe wasting
disorder characterized by weight loss, muscle atrophy, fatigue, weakness, and significant loss of appetite. This disorder is often
seen in late stage cancer patients. OHR/AVR118 has also anecdotally shown to have chemoprotective effects, thus potentially allowing
patients to better tolerate chemotherapy and radiation as well as more intensive treatment regimens with ordinary toxic chemotherapeutic
agents, while maintaining body weight and avoiding other side effects. There is currently no FDA approved drug for the treatment
of cancer cachexia. The Company presented interim data on this current trial at the annual conference of the Society of Cachexia
and Wasting Disorders in Barcelona, Spain in December 2009.  In December 2010, the Company opened a new clinical site
for the ongoing Phase II trial in cancer cachexia at the Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre and enrolled the first three patients at
the new site. Enrollment in the current trial is ongoing.
 
Ohr also owns various other compounds
in earlier stages of development that it will seek to develop further through a strategic partnership or on a sponsored basis.
As consideration for Dr. Hirschman for
the sale of the pre-clinical compounds, on March 20, 2009 the Company issued to Dr. Hirschman, a five-year warrant, issuable on
the closing of the acquisition, exercisable for up to 5,000,000 shares of the Company’s Stock at an initial exercise price
of $.50 per share (the “Hirschman Warrant”) and entered into a certain Registration Rights Agreement, which provides
for certain registration rights in connection with the shares of the Company’s Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the
Hirschman Warrant (the “Registration Rights Agreement”). Dr. Hirschman is the father of Orin Hirschman, a beneficial
owner through AIGH Investment Partners, LLC of approximately 13.38% of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company.


5
Table of Contents


Reincorporation
On August 3, 2009 the Company merged
with and into its subsidiary, Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (“Ohr”). Under the terms of the merger agreement, Ohr became
the surviving corporation in the merger. Each outstanding share of BBM common stock was converted into one share of Ohr common
stock. Each outstanding share of BBM Series B convertible preferred stock was converted into one share of Ohr Series B
convertible preferred stock. Additionally, all outstanding BBM options and warrants were assumed and converted into equivalent
Ohr warrants or options and maintained substantially identical terms. Finally, each outstanding share of Ohr stock owned by BBM
immediately prior to the effective date of the merger ceased to be outstanding and was cancelled and retired.
Material Subsequent Events
On October 31, 2011, the Company agreed to extend
the term of the 11,985,367 common stock purchase warrants, expiring October 31, 2011, to October 31, 2012, subject to certain amended
provisions. These provisions include removal of the cashless exercise provision and early termination of the extension period in
the event that Ohr’s common stock trades at or above $1.50 for 5 consecutive days. The warrants are exercisable at $1.19.
 
On December 16, 2011, the Company completed
a private placement offering pursuant to which the Company sold 1,833,342 shares of its common stock at a price of $0.60 per share
for gross proceeds of $1,100,000. Purchasers of the shares also received an aggregate of 916,678 Class J Warrants to purchase common
stock at an exercise price of $0.65 per share and exercisable for a period of 5 years.
 
Competitive Factors
The pharmaceutical industry is characterized
by intense competition and confidentiality. We may not be aware of the other biotechnology, pharmaceutical companies or public
institutions that are developing pharmaceuticals that compete with our potential products. We also may not be aware of all the
other competing products our known competitors are pursuing. In addition, these biotechnology companies and public institutions
compete with us in recruiting for research personnel and subjects, which may affect our ability to complete our research studies.
Current treatment of cachexia is limited to off-label use of steroid based therapeutics and nutritional supplements but there are
various other companies developing investigational drugs in Phase I, II and III trials for the treatment of cachexia. We cannot
assure that none of them will get to market before us or that OHR/AVR118 will be a better treatment. Lucentis® (Genentech/Roche)
and Eylea® (Regeneron) are currently approved by the FDA and are the market leaders for the treatment of wet-AMD. There is
no assurance that we can get FDA approval for Squalamine eye drops for the treatment of wet-AMD, and if we get it, there is no
assurance we will be able to displace the market leaders as a treatment in a significant amount of patients. In addition there
are various other companies with drugs in Phase I and II trials for the treatment of wet-AMD. We cannot assure that none of them
will get to market before us or that Squalamine eye drops will be a better treatment. See “Risk Factors” below.
Number of Persons Employed
At present, the Company has two full-time employees.
On April 12, 2010, the Company hired Dr. Irach Taraporewala, CEO, and Sam Backenroth, Vice President of Business Development and
Interim CFO.
 
Additionally, as discussed above, Dr. S. Z.
Hirschman has served as a consultant and Chief Scientific Advisor to the Company since March 20, 2009. He provides scientific
and strategic direction to the Company as it explores potential pharmaceutical partnerships and furthers the development of its
pipeline of compounds.
 
Environmental Compliance
The Company is not aware of any environmental
claims or liabilities.
Governmental Compliance
Until the Company is able to generate
significant revenue from its principal operations, it will remain classified as a development stage company. As such, Ohr will
continue to be subject to various SEC and state securities rules and regulations. Its OTC Bulletin Board listing will also be
subject to various rules and regulations by the OTC Bulletin Board. The foregoing is not meant to be exclusive, and the Company
will continue to be subject to various generic governmental regulations, such as tax filing and reporting requirements, OSHA compliance,
etc. See “Risk Factors” below.

6
Table of Contents


ITEM 1A.	RISK FACTORS.
You should carefully consider the following
factors which may affect future results of operations. If any of the adverse events described below actually occur, our business,
financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and you may lose part or all of the value of your
investment. If you choose to invest in our securities, you should be able to bear a complete loss of your investment.
There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue
as a going concern due to our cash requirements which means that we may not be able to continue operations unless we obtain additional
funding.
Our independent registered public accounting
firm’s report on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 includes an explanatory paragraph
regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Conducting our clinical trials will require significant cash expenditures
and we do not have the funds necessary to complete all phases of our clinical trials nor do we currently have sufficient number
of shares of capital stock authorized to sell securities to raise the capital to complete the trials required to continue or complete
the development of our products, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.
Based on our current plans and capital
resources, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to enable us to meet our minimum planned operating
needs through September 2012. Our ability to continue as a going concern will depend upon our ability to obtain debt or equity
financing for funds to meet our cash requirements. No assurance can be given that debt or equity financing will be available. Concern
about our ability to continue as a going concern may place additional constraints on operations and make it more difficult for
us to meet our obligations or adversely affect the terms of possible funding. If our financial condition worsens and we become
unable to attract additional equity or debt financing or other strategic transactions, we could become insolvent or be forced to
declare bankruptcy.
We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable
terms, if at all, particularly with the current volatile market conditions.
We will need additional financing to further
our drug development programs as well as future trials. In our capital-raising efforts, we may seek to sell additional equity or
debt securities or obtain a bank credit facility. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, if convertible, could result
in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also result
in covenants that would restrict our operations. However, we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms, or
at all. Given the current global economic climate, we may have more difficulty raising funds than we would during a period of economic
stability. If we are unable to secure sufficient capital to fund our research and development activities, we may not be able to
continue operations, or we may have to enter into collaboration agreements that could require us to share commercial rights to
our products to a greater extent or at earlier stages in the drug development process than is currently intended. These collaborations,
if consummated prior to proof-of-efficacy or safety of a given product candidate, could impair our ability to realize value from
that product candidate. If our business does not generate the cash needed to finance our ongoing operations, we will likely need
to continue to raise additional capital.
The market price and volume of our common stock fluctuate
significantly and could result in substantial losses for individual investors.
The stock market from time to time experiences
significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad
market fluctuations may cause the market price and volume of our common stock to decrease. In addition, the market price and volume
of our common stock is highly volatile.
Factors that may
cause the market price and volume of our common stock to decrease include:
·	adverse
results or delays in our clinical trials;
·	fluctuations
in our results of operations, timing and announcements of our bio-technological innovations or new products or those of our competitors;
·	developments
concerning any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may enter into;
·	announcements
of FDA non-approval of our drug products, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory review process or actions;


7
Table of Contents


·	adverse
actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our drug products, clinical trials, manufacturing processes or sales and marketing
activities;
·	any
lawsuit involving us or our drug products;
·	developments
with respect to our patents and proprietary rights;
·	announcements
of technological innovations or new products by our competitors;
·	public
concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others;
·	regulatory
developments in the United States and in foreign countries;
·	changes
in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock or lack of analyst coverage;
·	the
pharmaceutical industry conditions generally and general market conditions;
·	failure
of our results of operations to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors;
·	sales
of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and five percent stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of
our common stock.
·	changes
in accounting principles; and
·	
loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel.
We face heavy government regulation, and FDA regulatory
approval of our products is uncertain.
The research, testing, manufacturing and
marketing of drug products such as those that we are developing are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local
government authorities, including the FDA. To obtain regulatory approval of a product, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the applicable regulatory agency that, among other things, the product is safe and effective for its intended use. In addition,
we must show that the manufacturing facilities used to produce the products are in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices
regulations or cGMP.
The process of obtaining FDA and other
required regulatory approvals and clearances will require us to expend substantial time and capital. Despite the time and expense
expended, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number of pre-clinical and clinical trials that will be required for FDA
approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is in development for, and the
requirements applicable to that particular drug candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many
reasons, including that:
·	a
drug candidate may not be shown to be safe or effective;
·	the
FDA may not approve our manufacturing process;
·	the
FDA may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical trials in different ways than we do;
·	the
FDA may not meet, or may extend, the Prescription Drug User Fee Act date with respect to a particular New Drug Application (“NDA”);
For example, if certain of our methods
for analyzing our trial data are not accepted by the FDA, we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.
Moreover, if and when our products do
obtain marketing approval, the marketing, distribution and manufacture of such products would remain subject to extensive ongoing
regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in:
·	warning
letters
·	fines
·	civil
penalties
·	injunctions
·	recall
or seizure of products


8
Table of Contents


·	total
or partial suspension of production
·	refusal
of the government to grant future approvals
·	withdrawal
of approvals
·	criminal
prosecution
Any delay or failure by us to obtain regulatory
approvals for our product candidates could diminish competitive advantages that we may attain and would adversely affect the marketing
of our products. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction.
If we do not raise additional funds, we will not be
able to continue operations or complete the necessary clinical trials to complete development of Squalamine and OHR/AVR118 or our
other products and will not be able to sell them anywhere.
We will not be able to sell Squalamine
and OHR/AVR118 or our other products in the United States unless we submit, and the FDA approves an NDA for each such product.
We must conduct clinical trials of each of our products in humans before we submit an NDA. We do not have sufficient capital currently
to complete the necessary trials to complete the development of Squalamine and OHR/AVR118 or any of our other therapeutic drug
products.
It is possible that the results of clinical
trials of Squalamine and OHR/AVR118 or our other products will not prove that they are safe and effective. It is also possible
that the FDA will not approve the sale of any of our products in the United States if we submit an NDA for such product. It is
not known at this time how later stage clinical trials will be conducted, if at all. Even if the data show that any of our products
is safe and effective, obtaining approval of the NDA could take years and require financing of amounts not presently available
to us.
Conducting the clinical trials of each
of our products will require significant cash expenditures and we do not have the funds necessary to complete all phases of clinical
trials for Squalamine and OHR/AVR118 or any other products. Our products may never be approved for commercial distribution by any
country. Because our research and development expenses and clinical trial expenses will be charged against earnings for financial
reporting purposes, we expect that losses from operations will continue to be incurred for the near future. We currently do not
have sufficient funds to complete all phases of clinical trials of any of our products which are required to permit the commercial
sale of such products.
If the results of our clinical trials do not support
our claims relating to any drug candidate or if serious side effects are identified, the completion of development of such drug
candidate may be significantly delayed or we may be forced to abandon development altogether, which will significantly impair our
ability to generate product revenues.
The results of our clinical trials with
respect to any drug candidate might not support our claims of safety or efficacy, the effects of our drug candidates may not be
the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the drug candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. Further,
success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and the
results of later clinical trials may not replicate the results of prior clinical trials and preclinical testing. The clinical trial
process may fail to demonstrate that our drug candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. In addition, our
clinical trials may involve a specific and small patient population. Because of the small sample size, the results of these early
clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. Adverse or inconclusive results may cause us to abandon a drug candidate
and may delay development of other drug candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing
of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, significantly impair our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and generate product
revenues which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
We have found it difficult to enroll patients in our
clinical trials, which has caused significant delays in the completion of such trials and which may cause us to abandon one or
more clinical trials.
For the diseases or disorders that our
product candidates are intended to treat, we expect only a subset of the patients with these diseases to be eligible for our clinical
trials. Given that each of our product candidates is in the early stages of preclinical or clinical development, we may not be
able to initiate or continue clinical trials for each or all of our product candidates if we are unable to locate a sufficient
number of eligible subjects to participate in the clinical trials required by the FDA and/or other foreign regulatory authorities.
The requirements of our clinical testing mandate that a patient cannot be involved in another clinical trial for the same indication.
We are aware that our competitors have ongoing clinical trials for products that are competitive with our product candidates and
subjects who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may be involved in such testing, rendering them unavailable for
testing of our product candidates. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients for any of our current or future clinical
trials would result in significant delays or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether, which would have
a material adverse effect on our business.


9
Table of Contents


If our contract research organizations do not successfully
carry out their duties or if we lose our relationships with contract research organizations, our drug development efforts could
be delayed.
We are dependent on contract research
organizations, third-party vendors and investigators for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials related to our drug discovery
and development efforts and we will likely continue to depend on them to assist in our future discovery and development efforts.
These parties are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If
they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs or if their performance is substandard, it will
delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The parties with which we contract for execution of our
clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Their
failure to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates.
If we lose our relationship with any one
or more of these parties, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting
for its services. We may be unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative
provider, it is likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or
level of service as the original provider. In addition, any provider that we retain will be subject to current Good Laboratory
Practices, and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers.
Consequently, if these practices and standards are not adhered to by these providers, the development and commercialization of
our product candidates could be delayed.
If we are ever in a position to commercialize our product
candidates, of which there can be no assurance, we have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal
capability to do so.
We currently have no sales, marketing
or distribution capabilities and no experience in building a sales force and distribution capabilities. If we are ever in a position
to commercialize our product candidates, of which there can be no assurance, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and
distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these
services. If we decide to market any of our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to
develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. Building an in-house
marketing and sales force with technical expertise and distribution capabilities will require significant expenditures, management
resources and time. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly and without strategic partners
include:
·	our
inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;
·	the
inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products;
·	the
lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies
with more extensive product lines; and
·	unforeseen
costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization.
We may not be successful in recruiting
the sales and marketing personnel necessary to sell our products and even if we do build a sales force, they may not be successful
in marketing our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
Developments by competitors may render our products
or technologies obsolete or non-competitive which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
We compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical
companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government
agencies and other public and private research organizations. Our drug candidates will have to compete with existing therapies
and therapies under development by our competitors. In addition, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our
competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products. Other companies
have drug candidates in various stages of preclinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to
develop drug products. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and
may be commercialized earlier. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our products may not compete successfully
with products produced by our competitors.


10
Table of Contents


Most of our competitors, either alone
or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs, staff and facilities and have
substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in:
·	developing
drugs;
·	undertaking
preclinical testing and human clinical trials;
·	obtaining
FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs;
·	formulating
and manufacturing drugs; and
·	launching,
marketing and selling drugs.
These organizations also compete with
us to attract qualified personnel, acquisitions and joint ventures candidates and for other collaborations. Activities of our competitors
may impose unanticipated costs on our business which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
We rely on confidentiality agreements that could be
breached and may be difficult to enforce which could have a material adverse effect on our business and competitive position.
Our policy is to enter agreements relating
to the non-disclosure of confidential information with third parties, including our contractors, consultants, advisors and research
collaborators, as well as agreements that purport to require the disclosure and assignment to us of the rights to the ideas, developments,
discoveries and inventions of our employees and consultants while we employ them. However, these agreements can be difficult and
costly to enforce. Moreover, to the extent that our contractors, consultants, advisors and research collaborators apply or independently
develop intellectual property in connection with any of our projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to this type
of information. If a dispute arises, a court may determine that the right belongs to a third party, and enforcement of our rights
can be costly and unpredictable. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we will seek to protect in
part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, advisors or others. Despite the protective measures
we employ, we still face the risk that:
·	these
agreements may be breached;
·	these
agreements may not provide adequate remedies for the applicable type of breach; or
·	our
trade secrets or proprietary know-how will otherwise become known.
Any breach of our confidentiality agreements or our
failure to effectively enforce such agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business and competitive position.
If we infringe the rights of third parties
we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and required to defend against litigation which could result
in substantial costs and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
We have not received to date any claims
of infringement by any third parties. However, as our product candidates progress into clinical trials and commercialization, if
at all, our public profile and that of our product candidates may be raised and generate such claims. Defending against such claims,
and occurrence of a judgment adverse to us, could result in unanticipated costs and may have a material adverse effect on our business
and competitive position. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties,
we could incur substantial costs and we may have to:
·	obtain
licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all;
·	redesign
our products or processes to avoid infringement;


11
Table of Contents


·	stop
using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others, which could cause us to lose the use of one or more of our drug
candidates;
·	defend
litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion
of management resources; or
·	pay
damages.
Any costs incurred in connection with
such events or the inability to sell our products may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
We depend upon key officers and consultants in a competitive
market for skilled personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, it could adversely affect our ability to develop
and market our products.
We are highly dependent upon the principal
members of our management team, especially our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Irach Taraporewala, our Chief Scientific Advisor, Dr.
S. Z. Hirschman, and our Vice President of business development and interim CFO, Sam Backenroth, as well as our directors, including
Ira Greenstein, the Chairman of our Board of Directors. A loss of any of these personnel may have a material adverse effect on
aspects of our business and clinical development and regulatory programs. We have employment agreements with Dr. Taraporewala and
Mr. Backenroth, and a consulting agreement with Dr. Hirschman. Although these agreements include a non-competition covenant, the
applicable noncompetition provisions can be difficult and costly to monitor and enforce. The loss of any of these persons’
services would adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals. 
We also depend in part on obtaining the
service of scientific personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. We experience intense competition
for qualified personnel, and the existence of non-competition agreements between prospective employees and their former employers
may prevent us from hiring those individuals or subject us to suit from their former employers. While we attempt to provide competitive
compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel, many of our competitors are likely to have greater resources and more
experience than we have, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel.
Intellectual property litigation is increasingly common
and increasingly expensive and may result in restrictions on our business and substantial costs, even if we prevail.
Patent and other intellectual property
litigation is becoming more common in the pharmaceutical industry. Litigation is sometimes necessary to defend against or assert
claims of infringement, to enforce our patent rights, including those we have licensed from others, to protect trade secrets or
to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of third parties. Currently, no third party is asserting that we are
infringing upon their patent rights or other intellectual property, nor are we aware or believe that we are infringing upon any
third party’s patent rights or other intellectual property. We may, however, be infringing upon a third party’s patent
rights or other intellectual property, and litigation asserting such claims might be initiated in which we would not prevail, or
we would not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. All such litigation, whether meritorious
or not, as well as litigation initiated by us against third parties, is time-consuming and very expensive to defend or prosecute
and to resolve. In addition, if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture
or sell our products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties.
An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us
from manufacturing or selling our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and prospects.
If our competitors prepare and file patent
applications in the United States that claim technology we also claim, we may have to participate in interference proceedings required
by the US Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial costs, even if we ultimately
prevail. Results of interference proceedings are highly unpredictable and may result in us having to try to obtain licenses in
order to continue to develop or market certain of our drug products.


12
Table of Contents


Any future acquisitions we make of companies or technologies
may result in disruption to our business or distraction of our management, due to difficulties in assimilating acquired personnel
and operations.
We may acquire or make
investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products which complement our biotech operations if
appropriate opportunities arise. From time to time we engage in discussions and negotiations with companies regarding our
acquiring or investing in such companies’ businesses, products, services or technologies, in the ordinary course of our
business. We cannot be assured that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or if
we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make such acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable
terms or at all. If we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty in assimilating that company’s
personnel, operations, technology and software. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work
for us. If we make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty in integrating the acquired products, services or
technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and
employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness or
issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities would be dilutive to our
existing stockholders. As of January 13, 2012, we had no agreement to enter into any material investment or acquisition
transaction.
The market for our common stock is highly illiquid.
Our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by such stockholders, or at all.
Our common stock is quoted on NASD’s
Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (or the OTC Bulletin Board). Securities quoted for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board are generally
highly illiquid. There is a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Bulletin Board as opposed
to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility may be caused by a variety of factors including:
·	the
absence of consistent administrative supervision of “bid” and “ask” quotations;
·	lower
trading volume; and
·	market
conditions.
There is only sporadic trading in our
common stock and our security holders may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our securities. Such price and volume
fluctuations have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many biotechnology companies. These price and
volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These fluctuations may have
an extremely negative effect on the market price of our securities and may prevent a stockholder from obtaining a market price
equal to the purchase price such stockholder paid when the stockholder attempts to sell our securities in the open market. In these
situations, the stockholder may be required either to sell our securities at a market price which is lower than the purchase price
the stockholder paid, or to hold our securities for a longer period of time than planned. An inactive market may also impair our
ability to raise capital by selling shares of capital stock or to recruit and retain managers with equity-based incentive plans.
Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,”
which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements.
Our common stock is deemed to be “penny
stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange
Act”). These requirements may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors.
This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them.
This could cause our stock price to decline.
Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks
are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are
required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor.
The exercise of our outstanding convertible
securities or issuance of additional shares could have dilutive impact on our stockholders, and a significant negative impact on
the market price of our common stock.
The sale or availability for sale of this
number of shares of common stock in the public market could depress the market price of the common stock. Additionally, the sale
or availability for sale of this number of shares may lessen the likelihood that additional equity financing will be available
to us, on favorable or unfavorable terms.


13
Table of Contents


Furthermore, the sale or availability
for sale of this number of shares could limit the annual amount of net operating loss carryforwards that could be utilized.
We will not pay cash dividends and investors may have
to sell their shares in order to realize their investment.
We have not paid any cash dividends on
our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to use our cash for reinvestment
in the development and marketing of our products and services. As a result, investors may have to sell their shares of common stock
to realize their investment.
Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance
with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In
addition, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse
effect on the price of our common stock.
Effective internal controls are necessary
for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or
prevent fraud, our results of operation could be harmed.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We continuously
monitor our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems to confirm that they are compliant with Section 404,
and we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act. This process may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete.
If, at any time, it is determined that
we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and reevaluate
our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as increased independent auditor
fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel. If
we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to
time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance
with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause
investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of
our common stock.
Compliance with changing regulation of
corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, divert management’s attention from operating
our business which could have a material adverse effect on our business.
There have been other changing laws, regulations
and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in addition to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new regulations
promulgated by the Commission and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges. These new or changed laws, regulations
and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application
in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing
uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.
As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased
general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance
activities. Our board members, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability
in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board
members and executive officers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our efforts to comply with new or
changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we may incur additional
expenses to comply with standards set by regulatory authorities or governing bodies which would have a material adverse effect
on our business and results of operations.
ITEM 2	PROPERTIES
We
do not currently lease or own any facilities for office space. Our offices are provided to us free of charge from an affiliate
of Mr. Backenroth.


14
Table of Contents


ITEM 3	LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Neither Ohr nor its property is a party
to any pending legal proceedings.
ITEM 4	RESERVED

15
Table of Contents

 
Part
II
ITEM 5	MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S
COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Ohr’s shares of common stock are
quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB). Its trading symbol is OHRP. Following is a table of the quotation ranges (high and low
trading prices) for its shares for Ohr’s last two years.


  
High 
Low 
  
High 
Low 
  
High 
Low

FY 2012 
  
  
FY 2011 
  
  
FY 2010 
  
 

October 1st – December 31st 2011 
$0.74  
$0.55  
 October 1st – December 31st 2010  
$0.30  
$0.17  
 October 1st December 31st 2009  
$1.25  
$0.25 

January 1st – January 13, 2012 
$0.75  
$0.60  
 January 1st – March 31st 2011  
$0.30  
$0.22  
 January 1st – March 31st 2010  
$0.80  
$0.32 

  
    
    
 April 1st – June 30th 2011  
$0.60  
$0.20  
 April 1st – June 30th 2010  
$0.80  
$0.40 

  
    
    
 July 1st – September 30th 2011  
$0.75  
$0.53  
 July 1st – September 30th 2010  
$0.48  
$0.15 

 
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities; Use of Proceeds from
Registered Securities
On June 3, 2009, the Company completed
a $1,005,000 financing in which the Company sold 5,583,336 series B preferred shares with 5,583,336 Class G Warrants and 5,583,336
Class F Warrants attached. Each share of preferred stock has the same voting rights of common shareholders and has a conversion
feature where Series B preferred shares can be converted into common shares at the conversion rate of 1 to 1. Class F and Class
G Warrants were included in each unit sold and have a 5 year term with a strike price of $0.18.
Between October 29 and December 4, 2009,
the Company issued a total of 236,000 warrants for services rendered to the Company. In conjunction with this issuance, the Company
recognized $88,562 in consulting expense. The warrants are exercisable for five years at an exercise price of $0.55 per share.
On December 15, 2009, investors exercised
5,583,336 Class G warrants via a cashless exchange for 4,547,238 shares of the Company’s common stock.
On January 15, 2010, the Company completed
a $1,005,000 financing in which the Company issued 5,583,336 common shares to holders of the Class F Warrants who exercised their
warrants at an exercise price of $0.18. Additionally, as an inducement to the holders to exercise the Warrants, the Company issued
5,583,336 Class H warrants to the Class F warrant holders who exercised their Class F warrants. The Class H Warrants have a 5 year
term with a strike price of $0.55.
On April 9, 2010 the Company
granted 10,000 warrants as payment for an outstanding accounts payable balance of $3,991.
 
On April 12, 2010 the Company
hired Dr. Irach Taraporewala as CEO and Sam Backenroth as Vice President of Business Development and Interim CFO, and Andrew Limpert
resigned as an officer of the Company. Pursuant to the employee stock option plan adopted September 2009, Dr. Taraporewala received
800,000 options exercisable at $0.50 vesting over 4 years and Mr. Backenroth received 200,000 options exercisable at $0.50 vesting
over 4 years. Further details about Dr. Taraporewala and Mr. Backenroth’s employment can be found in the Company’s
Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 12, 2010.
 
On June 22, 2010 the Company
authorized the issuance of 93,000 warrants to be issued for services to be provided to the Company. Of these authorized warrants,
90,000 were issued on June 23, 2010 once the contract for services was finalized. These warrants have a 5 year term with a strike
price of $0.50. The remaining 3,000 warrants were issued September 2, 2010. These warrants have a 3 year term with a strike price
of $0.50. The combined value of these options is $41,129 and was expensed as research and development expense.
 
On August 5, 2010 the Company
issued 50,000 shares of its common stock to a consultant for services to be provided to the Company.
 

16
Table of Contents

 

On November 5, 2010 the
Company issued 50,000 shares of its common stock to a consultant for services to be provided to the Company.
 
On December 30, 2010 the
Company sold 4,200,000 shares of common stock to a group of institutional and accredited investors for gross proceeds of $1,050,000.
In addition, the investors received 2,520,000 Class I warrants to purchase common stock at an exercise price of $0.55 per share
and exercisable for a five year period.
 
Between May 12 and August
23, 2011, the Company issued a total of 625,000 warrants for services rendered to the Company.  As of September 30, 2011,
230,000 warrants with a fair value of $123,170 had vested. The Company recorded a corresponding expense of $71,687 to professional
fees and $51,483 to research and development expense.
 
On October 31, 2011, the Company agreed to extend
the term of the 11,985,367 common stock purchase warrants, expiring October 31, 2011, to October 31, 2012, subject to certain amended
provisions. These provisions include removal of the cashless exercise provision and early termination of the extension period in
the event that Ohr’s common stock trades at or above $1.50 for 5 consecutive days. The warrants are exercisable at $1.19.
 
On December 16, 2011, the Company completed
a private placement offering pursuant to which the Company sold 1,833,342 shares of its common stock at a price of $0.60 per share
for gross proceeds of $1,100,000. Purchasers of the shares also received an aggregate of 916,678 Class J Warrants to purchase common
stock at an exercise price of $0.65 per share and exercisable for a period of 5 years.
 
Stock Repurchase
Ohr has not engaged
in any stock repurchase transactions, and no stock repurchase plan is currently in place.
ITEM 6	SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA
Not required for
a smaller reporting company.
ITEM 7	MANAGEMENTS’
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this report,
including, without limitation, statements containing the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,”
“intends,” and words of similar import, constitute “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases, regarding
the Company’s financial and business prospects. These forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by these
cautionary statements, which are being made pursuant to the provisions of such Act and with the intention of obtaining the benefits
of the “safe harbor” provisions of such Act. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements it
makes are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking
statements. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise. Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. For a general discussion
of some of these risks in greater detail, see our “Risk Factors” on page 7 of this Annual Report.
General
 
The Company is a biotechnology rollup company
currently focused on development of the Company’s previously acquired compounds. With the addition of our executive management
team in April 2010, we have shifted our strategy accordingly to focus on the development of our two later stage lead products,
OHR/AVR 118 for the treatment of cancer cachexia, and Squalamine eye drops for the treatment of wet-AMD. We acquired OHR/AVR118
in a secured party sale and Squalamine from the Genaera Liquidating Trust as part of the Company’s previous strategy to create
a rollup of undervalued biotechnology companies and assets.
 

17
Table of Contents

 

We seek to advance our two lead products through
later stage clinical trials as well as developing some of our earlier stage products and indications are that we are moving forward
with minimal capital outlay. We have also started a new initiative to seek and implement strategic alternatives with respect to
our products, including licenses, business collaborations and other business combinations or transactions with other pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies.  From time to time, we may engage in discussions with third parties regarding the licensure,
sale or acquisition of our products and technologies or a merger or sale of the Company; however we currently do not have plans
to enter into such a transaction and there is no assurance that the Company will complete such a transaction.

 
 The Company has limited core operating
expenses as we have only two full-time employees.  In connection with the hiring of our executive management team, we
have established an office in New York City. The office is being provided by an affiliate of Mr. Backenroth free of charge with
the exception of minimal office related expenses. 
 
The Company will continue to incur ongoing operating
losses, which are expected to increase substantially as it funds development of the new pharmaceutical compounds. In addition,
losses will be incurred in paying ongoing reporting expenses, including legal and accounting expenses, as necessary to maintain
the Company as a public entity.  No projected date for potential revenues can be made, and the Company is undercapitalized
at present to completely develop, test and market any pharmaceutical product.
 
Until the Company is able to generate significant
revenue from its principal operations, it will remain classified as a development stage company. The Company can give no assurance
that it will be successful in such efforts or that its limited operating funds will be adequate to support the Company’s
operations, nor can there be any assurance of any additional funding being available to the Company. Our independent accountants
have qualified their audit report by expressing doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a “going concern.”
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
The Company has extremely limited working
capital reserves with which to continue development of its pharmaceutical products and continuing operations. The Company is reliant,
at present, upon its capital reserves for ongoing operations and has no revenues.
Absent the non-cash stock warrant
derivative liability of $5,893,544 and $1,387,656, Net working capital reserves increased from
the beginning of the 2011 fiscal year to the end by $190,076 from $200,624 to $390,700 primarily due to capital raised
through the sale of common stock and warrants. At present, the Company has no bank line of credit or other fixed source of
capital reserves. Should it need additional capitalization in the future, it will be primarily reliant upon private or
public placement of its equities for which there can be no warranty or assurance that the Company may be successful in such
efforts. The Company raised $1,100,000 through the private placement of its common stock and warrants in December 2011, and
management believes the Company has sufficient capital to meet its planned operating needs through September 2012.
Results of Operations
For the fiscal year ended September 30,
2011, the Company had zero revenues and operating expenses of approximately $1,243,401. The loss from operations was comprised
of $521,969 in research and development costs, $338,055 in professional fees, $279,029 in salaries and wages, and $104,348 in general
and administrative expenses. During the same period, the Company recorded interest expense of $2,433, a gain on the sale of assets
of $70,500, a gain on the settlement of debt of $49,179, a loss on derivative liabilities of $3,977,041, and other income items
totaling $1,677. The net loss from continuing operations for the year ended September 30, 2011 was $5,101,519.
For
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, the Company had zero revenues and operating expenses of approximately $1,015,591.  The
loss from operations was comprised of $302,553 in research and development costs, $362,603 in professional fees, $254,021 in salaries
and wages, and $96,414 in general and administrative expenses. During the same period, the Company recorded interest expense of
$21,493, a gain on the settlement of debt of $19,410, a gain on derivative liabilities of $1,480,586, and other income items totaling
$31,465. The net income from continuing operations for the year ended September 30,
2010 was $494,377.


18
Table of Contents


As noted above, the Company had no revenues
for fiscal year 2011, and does not reasonably anticipate that it will have revenues in fiscal year 2012. The operating expenses
of the Company increased from fiscal year 2010 to 2011 by approximately $227,810. Decreases in professional fees were offset by
increases in research and development costs incurred as ongoing development costs and testing efforts for its pharmaceutical products.
The Company also saw a decrease in interest expense of $19,060 from 2010 due to the full repayment of its short-term notes and
convertible debentures issued by the Company during 2009. The Company anticipates it will have higher expenditures in fiscal year
2012, including a full year of employee expenses and clinical development costs, again with no offsetting revenues.
Results of continuing operations for the
year ended September 30, 2011 reflect the following changes from the prior period:


  
2011 
2010 
Change

Revenues 
$—    
$—    
$—   

Cost of Revenues 
 —    
 —    
 —   

General and administrative 
 104,348  
 96,414  
 7,934 

Professional fees 
 338,055  
 362,603  
 (24,548)

Research and development 
 521,969  
 302,553  
 219,416 

Salaries and wages 
 279,029  
 254,021  
 25,008 

Loss from Operations 
 (1,243,401) 
 (1,015,591) 
 (227,810)

Gain/(Loss) on derivative liability 
 (3,977,041) 
 1,480,586  
 (5,457,627)

Other income and (expense) 
 118,923  
 29,382  
 89,541 

Income (loss) from discontinued Operations 
 —    
 —    
 —   

Net Income (loss) 
$(5,101,519) 
$494,377  
$(5,595,896)

 
 Until the Company experiences an
increase in operations as it continues to implement its business plan, significant losses are expected to continue as the trend
is reflected in the chart above.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
The Company has not entered into any off-balance
sheet arrangements.
Tabular Description of Principal Contracts
The Company is not engaged in any
contract for sale or distribution of its product to date; and, therefore, does not have any specific disclosure under this heading.
Summary of Significant Events
On March 20, 2009, the Company acquired
in a secured party sale all the patents, related intellectual property, clinical data and other assets related to AVR 118 (renamed
OHR/AVR118). OHR/AVR118 is in an ongoing Phase II trial for the treatment of cachexia. The Company also exercised its option to
acquire the new technology and early stage pharmaceutical compounds from Dr. S. Z. Hirschman, who joined the Company as a consultant
and Chief Scientific Advisor.
The Company acquired the assets in the
secured party sale with $100,000 in cash and by issuing a $500,000 principal amount 11% convertible secured non-recourse debenture
due June 20, 2011, and convertible at $0.40 per share (the “Convertible Debenture”). The Convertible Debenture
is secured by the acquired assets. The cash portion of the purchase price was financed by short-term loans from an affiliate of
Orin Hirschman, a director of the Company, and another current shareholder. The Convertible Debenture was paid in full on December
29, 2010.
On June 3, 2009, the Company completed
a financing in which the Company sold 5,583,336 Series B preferred shares with 5,583,336 Class G Warrants and 5,583,336 Class
F Warrants attached. Each share of preferred stock has the same voting rights of common shareholders and has a conversion feature
where Series B preferred shares can be converted into common shares at the conversion rate of 1 to 1. Warrants included in each
unit sold have a 5 year term with a strike price of $0.18. The Company received $1,005,000 in cash in exchange for the units sold.

19
Table of Contents

 On August 5, 2009 the
Company completed a short-form merger whereby BBM Holdings, Inc. (“BBM”) merged with its wholly-owned
Delaware subsidiary to be known as Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (“OHR”), a Delaware public entity. The purposes
of the merger were as follows: To change the name and business purposes of the Company to a
pharmaceutical company to accommodate the acquisition of the pharmaceutical products, concepts and patents from Dr. Hirschman
and other parties as described above and to change the domicile of the Company to Delaware.
As a result of the merger, the Company
is now known as Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. It should be noted the merger was approved by majority shareholder consent and did not
involve the issuance of any new shares. The merger did include an increase in authorized shares of common stock to 180,000,000
shares and preferred stock to 15,000,000 and assigned a par value of $0.0001 for each class of stock. Ohr applied for a new trading
symbol to reflect the name change and is now trading on a limited basis under the symbol OHRP.ob.
On August 19, 2009 the
Company completed the acquisition of Squalamine, Trodusquemine and related compounds from Geneara Liquidating Trust. The Company
paid $200,000 in cash for the compounds.
On December 15, 2009, investors exercised
5,583,336 Class G warrants via a cashless exchange for 4,547,238 shares of the Company’s common stock.
 
On January 15, 2010, the Company completed
a $1,005,000 financing in which the Company issued 5,583,336 common shares to holders of the series F Warrants who exercised their
warrants at an exercise price of $0.18. Additionally, as an inducement to the holders to exercise the Warrants, the Company issued
5,583,336 Class H warrants to the Class F warrant holders who exercised their Class F warrants. The Class H Warrants have a 5 year
term with a strike price of $0.55.
On April 12, 2010 the Company
hired Dr. Irach Taraporewala as CEO and Sam Backenroth as Vice President of Business Development and Interim CFO, and Andrew Limpert
resigned as an officer of the Company. Pursuant to the employee stock option plan adopted September 2009, Dr. Taraporewala received
800,000 options exercisable at $0.50 vesting over 4 years and Mr. Backenroth received 200,000 options exercisable at $0.50 vesting
over 4 years.
 
 In December 2010, the Company opened a new clinical
site for its ongoing Phase II clinical trial to investigate the efficacy of OHR/AVR118 for the treatment of cancer cachexia at
the Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre.
 
On December 30, 2010 the Company sold 4,200,000
shares of common stock to a group of institutional and accredited investors for gross proceeds of $1,050,000. In addition, the
investors received 2,520,000 five year warrants to purchase common stock at an exercise price of $0.55 per share.
 
On June 21, 2011, the Company
announced the Squalamine eye drop program for the treatment of the wet form of macular degeneration. Additional information was
disclosed regarding animal safety and biodistribution data generated using the eye drop formulation of Squalamine on July 13, 2011.
 
On October 31, 2011, the Company agreed to extend
the term of the 11,985,367 common stock purchase warrants, expiring October 31, 2011, to October 31, 2012, subject to certain amended
provisions. These provisions include removal of the cashless exercise provision and early termination of the extension period in
the event that Ohr’s common stock trades at or above $1.50 for 5 consecutive days. The warrants are exercisable at $1.19.
 
On December 16, 2011, the Company completed
a private placement offering pursuant to which the Company sold 1,833,342 shares of its common stock at a price of $0.60 per share
for gross proceeds of $1,100,000. Purchasers of the shares also received an aggregate of 916,678 Class J Warrants to purchase common
stock at an exercise price of $0.65 per share and exercisable for a period of 5 years.
 
Discontinued Operations and Divestment of Assets
On June 5, 2007, BBM Holdings announced
that it ceased operations and reduced employment to a small residual force. The Company received notification of the cancellation
of two customer contracts on May 22, 2007 and May 28, 2007, respectively. In addition, the Company’s largest customer
announced that it would suspend further installations of systems on its vessels for a four-month period.  The Company also
received notification of the cancellation of a third customer contract on June 1, 2007.
The Company obtained a release of long-term
obligations with substantially all of its predecessor’s vendors.

20
Table of Contents


On October 16, 2007, BBM agreed to
sell substantially all of its assets (primarily intellectual property and technology) relating to broadband services to ships to
private investors for $460,000 pursuant to an asset purchase agreement (the “Asset Purchase Agreement”).
The Company completed the transaction on November 1, 2007, after required stockholder approval under Utah corporate law. In
conjunction with the completion of the asset sale, BBM’s major customer has agreed to release the Company of its obligation
to pay accrued commissions of $45,000 as well as agreeing to withdraw its claim of $420,000.
The Company has limited core operating
expenses as we have only two full-time employees. In connection with the hiring of our executive management team, we established
an office in New York City. The office is being provided by an affiliate of Mr. Backenroth free of charge with the exception of
minimal office related expenses. 
Products and Markets
The Company is a pharmaceutical rollup
company currently focused on development of the Company’s previously acquired compounds. With the addition of our executive
management team in April 2010, we have shifted our strategy accordingly to focus on the development of our two later stage lead
products, OHR/AVR 118 for the treatment of cancer cachexia, and Squalamine eye drops for the treatment of wet-AMD. We acquired
OHR/AVR118 in a secured party sale and Squalamine from the Genaera Liquidating Trust as part of the Company’s previous strategy
to create a rollup of undervalued biotechnology companies and assets
Product Pipeline
Squalamine
 
Squalamine is an anti-angiogenic small molecule
with a novel intracellular mechanism of action, that counteracts not only Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor but also other angiogenic
growth factors including Platelet Derived Growth Factor (”PDGF”) and basic Fibroblast Growth Factor. Recent clinical
evidence has shown PDGF to be an additional target for the treatment of Wet Age-related Macular Degeneration (“Wet-AMD”).
Using an intravenous formulation in over 250 patients in Phase I and Phase II trials for the treatment of Wet-AMD, Squalamine demonstrated
safety and biologic effect in both early stage and advanced Wet-AMD. Ohr reformulated Squalamine for ophthalmic indications
from an intravenous infusion (“IV”) to a topical eye drop. The Company plans on advancing its clinical Wet-AMD program
with the novel topical formulation. The topical formulation is designed for enhanced uptake to the back of the eye and decreased
potential for side effects. The previous IV formulation had been awarded fast track status and a Special Protocol Assessment for
a Phase III registration study from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”).
 
In Phase II intravenous clinical trials, stabilization
or improvement in visual activity was observed in the vast majority of patients, with both early and advanced lesions responding
and few drug-related ocular or systemic effects were observed. In a number of patients whose Wet-AMD had progressed to an advanced
stage, the administration of Squalamine produced beneficial effects and significant improvement in best corrected visual acuity.  As
opposed to the approved current standard of care therapy, Squalamine does not require direct injection into the eye.
 
The Company has conducted preclinical testing
on the novel topical formulation with the following results:
 

Ocular tolerance and toxicity: In a dose escalation safety study involving daily eye drop treatment in
Dutch belted rabbits over a 28 day period, the formulation proved safe, and exhibited no signs of ocular toxicity or changes in
intraocular pressure. Importantly, no macroscopic or histopathological changes to the ocular tissues were noted.
Biodistribution study: A single eye drop was administered to the front of the eye in Dutch belted
rabbits. At all evaluated timepoints, drug concentrations in the posterior sclera-choroid region behind the retina at the back
of the eye exceeded the tissue concentrations of Squalamine that are known to block the choroidal neovascularization process
in wet-AMD.   The study results also demonstrated that the drug was undetectable in the anterior chamber of the eye (aqueous
humor), confirming that it does not penetrate through all the layers of the cornea or contact the lens.


21
Table of Contents

 Additional preclinical testing
is being conducted on the Squalamine eye drop formulation to assess long term safety and ocular tissue biodistribution. The Company
expects to have the results available during fiscal year 2012 and potentially present results at scientific meetings and/or in
peer reviewed publications.
Additionally, Squalamine has shown promise in
the treatment of solid tumors such as ovarian cancer. In a Phase IIa study, patients with stage III and IV refractory and resistant
ovarian cancer received Squalamine in conjunction with another chemotherapeutic agent, with approximately two thirds of the patients
achieving a complete response, partial response or stable disease. In 2001, Squalamine was awarded Orphan Drug Status by the Food
and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for the treatment of late stage resistant or refractory ovarian cancer. Because of
funding constraints, Ohr is seeking a development partner to further advance development of this indication.
 
OHR/AVR118
 
OHR/AVR118 is a novel immunomodulator with a
singular chemical structure that is terminally sterilized and endotoxin-free.  The compound is composed of two small
peptides, Peptide A, which is 31 amino acids long, and Peptide B, that is 21 amino acids long. Peptide B is unique in that the
dinucleotide, diadenosine, is covalently attached to serine at position 18 through a phosphodiester bond. OHR/AVR118 is quite stable
and has a favorable safety profile both in animal toxicity studies and in human clinical trials.
 
Ohr is currently conducting a Phase II clinical
trial of OHR/AVR 118 for the treatment of cancer cachexia at a leading cancer center in Canada. Cancer cachexia is a severe wasting
disorder characterized by weight loss, muscle atrophy, fatigue, weakness, and significant loss of appetite. This disorder is often
seen in late stage cancer patients. OHR/AVR118 has also anecdotally shown to have chemoprotective effects, thus potentially allowing
patients to better tolerate chemotherapy and radiation as well as more intensive treatment regimens with ordinary toxic chemotherapeutic
agents, while maintaining body weight and avoiding other side effects. There is currently no FDA approved drug for the treatment
of cancer cachexia. The Company presented interim data on this current trial at the annual conference of the Society of Cachexia
and Wasting Disorders in Barcelona, Spain in December 2009.  In December 2010, the Company opened a new clinical site
for the ongoing Phase II trial in cancer cachexia at the Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre and enrolled the first three patients at
the new site. Enrollment in the current trial is ongoing.
 
The Company will continue to incur ongoing
operating losses, which are expected to increase substantially after it funds development of the new pharmaceutical compounds.
In addition, losses will be incurred in paying ongoing reporting expenses, including legal and accounting expenses, as necessary
to maintain the Company as a public entity, as well as costs while searching for additional merger and acquisition candidates.
No projected date for potential revenues can be made and the Company is undercapitalized at present to develop, test and market
any pharmaceutical product.
ITEM 7A	QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market risk represents the risk of loss
arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Due to its limited operations, the Company does not
have any material exposure to interest rate or exchange rate risk.
ITEM 8	FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Following are the financial statements
prepared by Ohr and audited by its independent auditors. These financial statements constitute the formal presentation of financial
information by the Company, such that all other financial information contained in this 10-K report should be read and reviewed
in light of the following financial statements and notes thereto. Should there exist any conflict between information appearing
elsewhere in this Report and the following financial statements, the financial statements should be given primary definition and
control. The notes attached to the financial statements constitute an integral part of the financial disclosure and should be read
and reviewed in connection with the financial statements.

22
Table of Contents

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To The Board of Directors and Stockholders of OHR Pharmaceutical, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of OHR Pharmaceutical, Inc. (the "Company") as of September 30, 2011 and 2010, and the related statements of operations, changes in stockholders' equity (deficit), and cash flows for the years then ended, and for the period of October 1, 2007 (inception) through September 30, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States of America). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of OHR Pharmaceutical, Inc. as of September 30, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations, and its cash flows for the years then ended and for the period of October 1, 2007 (inception) through September 30, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company has incurred losses from operations, has a liquidity problem, and requires additional funds for its operational activities. These factors raise substantial doubt that the Company will be able to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.
/s/ Child, Van Wagoner & Bradshaw, PLLCCertified Public AccountantsSalt Lake City, UtahJanuary 6, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




23
Table of Contents

OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Balance Sheets



ASSETS

  
  
 

  
September 30, 
September 30,

  
2011 
2010

CURRENT ASSETS 
    
   

Cash 
$469,786  
$422,414 

Prepaid expenses 
 37,611  
 34,889 

Grant receivable 
 179,358  
 65,122 

Security deposits 
 —    
 85,025 

Other current assets 
 5,000  
 —   

Total Current Assets 
 691,755  
 607,450 

  
    
   

EQUIPMENT, net 
 19,164  
 24,168 

  
    
   

OTHER ASSETS 
    
   

Patent costs, net 
 701,927  
 780,407 

  
    
   

TOTAL ASSETS 
$1,412,846  
$1,412,025 

  
    
   

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)

  
    
   

CURRENT LIABILITIES 
    
   

Accounts payable and accrued expenses 
$301,055  
$338,225 

Short-term notes payable 
 —    
 17,486 

Convertible debentures 
 —    
 51,115 

Stock warrant derivative liability 
 5,893,544  
 1,387,656 

Total Current Liabilities 
 6,194,599  
 1,794,482 

  
    
   

TOTAL LIABILITIES 
 6,194,599  
 1,794,482 

  
    
   

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT) 
    
   

Preferred stock, Series B; 6,000,000 shares authorized, 
    
   

 at $0.0001 par value, 5,583,336  and 5,583,336 shares 
    
   

 issued and outstanding, respectively 
 558  
 558 

Common stock; 180,000,000 shares authorized, 
    
   

 at $0.0001 par value, 39,702,580 and 35,452,580 
    
   

 shares issued and outstanding, respectively 
 3,970  
 3,545 

Additional paid-in capital 
 22,289,231  
 21,587,433 

Accumulated deficit 
 (21,628,748) 
 (21,628,748)

Deficit accumulated during the development stage 
 (5,446,764) 
 (345,245)

  
    
   

Total Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) 
 (4,781,753) 
 (382,457)

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND 
    
   

 STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT) 
$1,412,846  
$1,412,025 

 
The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
 

24
Table of Contents

 

OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Statements of Operations
 



  
  
  
From Inception

  
  
  
of the Development

  
  
  
Stage on

  
  
  
October 1,

  
For the Year Ended 
2007 Through

  
September 30, 
September 30,

  
2011 
2010 
2011

REVENUES 
$—    
$—    
$—   

COST OF SALES 
 —    
 —    
 —   

GROSS PROFIT 
 —    
 —    
 —   

  
    
    
   

OPERATING EXPENSES 
    
    
   

General and administrative 
 104,348  
 96,414  
 997,816 

Professional fees 
 338,055  
 362,603  
 1,465,549 

Research and development 
 521,969  
 302,553  
 800,520 

Salaries and wages 
 279,029  
 254,021  
 581,581 

Total Operating Expenses 
 1,243,401  
 1,015,591  
 3,845,466 

  
    
    
   

OPERATING LOSS 
 (1,243,401) 
 (1,015,591) 
 (3,845,466)

  
    
    
   

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) 
    
    
   

Interest expense 
 (2,433) 
 (21,493) 
 (49,723)

Gain/(Loss) on warrant derivative liability 
 (3,977,041) 
 1,480,586  
 (2,496,453)

Gain on sale of assets 
 70,500  
 —    
 70,500 

Gain on settlement of debt 
 49,179  
 19,410  
 132,552 

Other income and expense 
 1,677  
 31,465  
 63,413 

Total Other Income and Expense 
 (3,858,118) 
 1,509,968  
 (2,279,711)

  
    
    
   

INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 
    
    
   

BEFORE INCOME TAXES 
 (5,101,519) 
 494,377  
 (6,125,177)

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES 
 —    
 —    
 —   

INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
 (5,101,519) 
 494,377  
 (6,125,177)

Income from discontinued operations 
    
    
   

(including gain on disposal of $606,000) 
 —    
 —    
 678,413 

Income tax benefit 
 —    
 —    
 —   

GAIN ON DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
 —    
 —    
 678,413 

  
    
    
   

NET INCOME (LOSS) 
$(5,101,519) 
$494,377  
$(5,446,764)

  
    
    
   

BASIC INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE 
    
    
   

Continuing operations 
$(0.13) 
$0.02  
   

Discontinued operations 
 0.00  
 0.00  
   

  
$(0.13) 
$0.02  
   

WEIGHTED AVERAGE  NUMBER 
    
    
   

 OF SHARES OUTSTANDING: 
    
    
   

BASIC AND DILUTED 
 38,666,744  
 32,821,879  
   


The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 

25
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Statements
of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)

 









  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Deficit 
 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Accumulated 
Total

  
  
  
Series B 
  
  
Additional 
  
During the 
Stockholders'

  
Convertible Preferred Stock 
Preferred Stock 
Common Stock 
Paid-in 
Accumulated 
Development 
Equity

  
Shares 
Amount 
Shares 
Amount 
Shares 
Amount 
Capital 
Deficit 
Stage 
(Deficit)

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

Balance, September 30, 2006 
 572,021  
$—    
 572,021  
$—    
 1,636,349  
$164  
$14,641,468  
$(15,325,185) 
$—    
$(683,553)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Preferred stock issued for 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

 cash net of expenses 
 656,000  
 6,251,000  
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 6,251,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Preferred stock issued for debt 
 45,700  
 457,000  
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 457,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Preferred stock dividend 
 44,570  
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Stock based compensation 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 4,000  
 —    
 —    
 4,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Exercise of stock options 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 4,834  
 1  
 1,999  
 —    
 —    
 2,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Conversion of preferred stock  to common stock 
 (1,318,291) 
 (6,708,000) 
 —    
 —    
 22,134,301  
 2,213  
 6,705,787  
 —    
 —    
 —   

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common stock issued for subsidiary 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 1,454,090  
 145  
 (145) 
 —    
 —    
 —   

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common stock issued for cash 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 17,432  
 2  
 9,998  
 —    
 —    
 10,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net loss for the year ended September 30, 2007 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 (6,303,563) 
 —    
 (6,303,563)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, October 1, 2007 
 —    
 —    
 572,021  
$—    
 25,247,006  
$2,525  
$21,363,107  
$(21,628,748) 
$—    
$(263,116)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Fair value of warrants granted to employees 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 271,484  
 —    
 —    
 271,484 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income for the year ended September 30, 2008 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 24,827  
 24,827 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, September 30, 2008 
 —    
 —    
 572,021  
 —    
 25,247,006  
 2,525  
 21,634,591  
 (21,628,748) 
 24,827  
 33,195 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Fair value of warrants granted to employees 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 411,860  
 —    
 —    
 411,860 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Preferred stock and warrants issued for cash 
 —    
 —    
 5,583,336  
 558  
 —    
 —    
 1,004,442  
 —    
 —    
 1,005,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Fair value of warrants granted 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 27,079  
 —    
 —    
 27,079 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net loss for the year ended September 30, 2009 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 (864,449) 
 (864,449)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, September 30, 2009 
 —    
 —    
 6,155,357  
$558  
 25,247,006  
$2,525  
$23,077,972  
$(21,628,748) 
$(839,622) 
$612,685 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   



The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 

26
Table of Contents



 
OHR
PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A
Development Stage Company)
Statements
of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)

 




  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 


  
  
  
 
  
 





  
Convertible
 Prefe rred Stock 
Series B
Preferred Stock 
Common Stock 
Additional
Paid-in 
Accumulated 
Deficit
Accumulated
During the
Development 
Total
Stockholders'
Equity

  
Shares 
Amount 
Shares 
Amount 
Shares 
Amount 
Capital 
Deficit 
Stage 
(Deficit)

Balance, September 30, 2009 
 —    
 —    
 6,155,357  
$558  
 25,247,006  
$2,525  
$23,077,972  
$(21,628,748) 
$(839,622) 
$612,685 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Fair value of warrants granted 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 133,682  
 —    
 —    
 133,682 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Fair value of employee stock options 
    
    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 219,541  
 —    
 —    
 219,541 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

xercise of warrants for cash at $0.18 per share 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 5,583,336  
 558  
 1,004,442  
 —    
 —    
 1,005,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Replacement warrants 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 (2,868,242) 
 —    
 —    
 (2,868,242)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Exercise of cashless warrants 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 4,547,238  
 455  
 (455) 
 —    
 —    
 —   

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Conversion of convertible debenture at $0.40 per share 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 25,000  
 2  
 9,998  
 —    
 —    
 10,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common stock issued for services at $0.21 per share 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 50,000  
 5  
 10,495  
 —    
 —    
 10,500 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income for the year ended September 30, 2010 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 494,377  
 494,377 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, September 30, 2010 
 —    
 —    
 6,155,357  
 558  
 35,452,580  
 3,545  
 21,587,433  
 (21,628,748) 
 (345,245) 
 (382,457)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common stock and warrants issued for cash 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 4,200,000  
 420  
 520,733  
 —    
 —    
 521,153 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Common stock issued for services 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 50,000  
 5  
 9,995  
 —    
 —    
 10,000 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Warrants issued for services 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 123,170  
 —    
 —    
 123,170 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Fair value of employee stock options 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 47,900  
 —    
 —    
 47,900 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net loss for the year ended September 30, 2011 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 (5,101,519) 
 (5,101,519)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance, September 30, 2011 
 —    
$—    
 6,155,357  
$558  
 39,702,580  
$3,970  
$22,289,231  
$(21,628,748) 
$(5,446,764) 
$(4,781,753)


 

 
The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 

27

Table of Contents

 

 

OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Statements of Cash Flows
 


  
 For the Year Ended 
September 30, 
From
    Inception of the Development Stage on October 1,  2007 Through 
September 30,

  
2011 
2010 
2011

OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
   

Net income (loss) 
$(5,101,519) 
$494,377  
$(5,446,764)

Adjustments to reconcile net Income (loss) to net cash 
    
    
   

 used by operating activities: 
    
    
   

Discontinued operations 
 —    
 —    
 (678,413)

Common stock issued for services 
 10,000  
 10,500  
 20,500 

Fair value of warrants issued for services 
 123,170  
 129,691  
 551,424 

Fair value of employee stock options 
 47,900  
 219,541  
 679,301 

Gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt 
 (49,179) 
 (19,410) 
 (68,589)

Gain on sale of asset 
 (70,500) 
 —    
 (70,500)

(Gain) loss on warrant derivative liability 
 3,977,041  
 (1,480,586) 
 2,496,455 

Depreciation 
 5,004  
 850  
 5,854 

Amortization of patent costs 
 78,480  
 19,593  
 98,073 

Changes in operating assets and liabilities 
    
    
   

Prepaid expenses and deposits 
 82,303  
 (34,889) 
 (37,191)

Other receivables 
 (119,236) 
 (65,122) 
 (99,333)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses 
 12,009  
 203,670  
 88,212 

Net Cash (Used in) Operating Activities 
 (1,004,527) 
 (521,785) 
 (2,460,971)

  
    
    
   

INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
   

Proceeds from sale of asset 
 70,500  
 —    
 70,500 

Purchase of equipment 
 —    
 (25,018) 
 (25,018)

Purchase of patents and other intellectual property 
 —    
 —    
 (300,000)

Discontinued operations 
 —    
 —    
 418,000 

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities 
 70,500  
 (25,018) 
 163,482 

  
    
    
   

FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
    
    
   

Proceeds from preferred stock and warrants 
 —    
 —    
 1,005,000 

Proceeds from common stock, derivative liability and warrants 
 1,050,000  
 —    
 1,050,000 

Proceeds from warrants exercised for cash 
 —    
 1,005,000  
 1,005,000 

Proceeds from related party payables 
 —    
 —    
 125,453 

Repayments of related party payables 
 —    
 —    
 (125,453)

Proceeds from short-term notes payable 
 —    
 64,408  
 64,408 

Repayments of short-term notes payable 
 (17,486) 
 (46,922) 
 (64,408)

Repayment of convertible debentures 
 (51,115) 
 (398,873) 
 (490,000)

Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities 
 981,399  
 623,613  
 2,570,000 

  
    
    
   

NET INCREASE IN CASH 
 47,372  
 76,810  
 272,511 

CASH AT BEGINNING OF PERIOD 
 422,414  
 345,604  
 197,275 

CASH AT END OF PERIOD 
$469,786  
$422,414  
$469,786 

 
The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 

28
Table of Contents

OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Statements of Cash Flows
 


  
  
  
From Inception

  
  
  
of the

  
  
  
Development

  
  
  
Stage on

  
  
  
October 1,

  
For the Year Ended 
2007 Through

  
September 30, 
September 30,

  
2011 
2010 
2011

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF 
  
  
 

CASH FLOW INFORMATION 
  
  
 

CASH PAID FOR: 
    
    
   

Interest 
$24,003  
$31,920  
$69,923 

Income Taxes 
 —    
 —    
 —   

  
    
    
   

NON CASH FINANCING ACTIVITIES: 
    
    
   

Transfer of investment for dividends payable 
$—    
$—    
$186,000 

Purchase of patents for debenture 
 —    
 —    
 500,000 

Conversion of debenture 
 —    
 10,000  
 10,000 

Options issued to settle accounts payable 
 —    
 3,991  
 3,991 

 
The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
 

29
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 
 
NOTE 1 – DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
Merger - On March 30, 2007 (the "Effective
Date"), Prime Acquisition, Inc., a Delaware corporation formed on December 18, 2006 and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prime
Resource, Inc. (the “Registrant”), a Utah Corporation, merged with and into Broadband Maritime Inc. (“Broadband”),
a Delaware corporation, ceasing its separate existence (the “Merger”). As a result of the Merger, Broadband is the
surviving corporation and the Registrant's only wholly-owned subsidiary and sole operating entity. Until its cessation of operations
in June 2007 (discussed below), Broadband was a telecommunications engineering and service company offering turnkey, always-on
Internet access to commercial shipping fleets. For purposes of accounting, Broadband is treated as the accounting acquirer and,
as such, these consolidated financial statements present the operations of Broadband for all periods presented.
 
In connection with the Merger, the Articles
of Incorporation of the Registrant were amended on March 22, 2007, to (1) change its name to "BBM Holdings, Inc." (the
“Company”) and (2) increase the total authorized capital stock of the Registrant to 60,000,000 shares of which 50,000,000
shares were designated common stock, no par value, and 10,000,000 shares were designated preferred stock, no par value, 1,454,090
shares of the Preferred Stock were designated Series A Preferred Stock (the "Series A Stock"). Prior to the Merger, the
Registrant declared a dividend of one share of Series A Stock per share of Common Stock outstanding. Each share of Series A Stock
represents the right to exchange such share for a pro rata share (among the issued and outstanding Series A Stock) of whatever
right, title and interest is held by the Registrant in the Units consisting of 58,166 Lightspace Units, each unit consisting of
8 shares and 12 warrants to purchase common stock of Lightspace Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Lightspace Securities").
 
In accordance with the Merger Agreement,
BBM issued an aggregate of 23,773,217 shares of its Common Stock to the shareholders of Broadband in consideration for the surrender
of their Broadband shares. BBM issued one share of its Common Stock per 0.0596 share of Broadband Preferred Stock issued and outstanding
immediately prior to the Effective Date, and one share of Common Stock per 59.558 of shares of Broadband Common Stock issued and
outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Date. In connection with the Merger, BBM also issued, or reserved for the issuance
upon surrender of outstanding warrants or options, warrants and options to purchase an aggregate of 14,979,835 shares of Common
Stock in consideration for the surrender of warrants and options to purchase Broadband Common Stock. Each warrant and option to
purchase Broadband Common Stock granted and unexercised immediately prior to the Effective Date (a "Broadband Option"),
vested or unvested, represents the right to receive an option or warrant, as the case may be, to acquire Common Stock at the rate
of one share of Common Stock per 59.559 shares of Broadband Common Stock upon exercise of the Broadband Option. The substituted
warrants will retain the exercise period provided for at the time of their original issuance, which in each case was five years.
The per share exercise price of the warrants, which ranged from $0.01 to $0.02, has been adjusted proportionately.
 
The Merger (reverse acquisition) described
above has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in which Broadband was the acquirer for accounting purposes and
the Registrant was the legal acquirer. No goodwill has been recognized since the Registrant was a “shell company.” 
 
Cessation of Operations - On June
5, 2007 the Company announced that it had ceased operations and reduced employment to a small residual force.  The Company
committed to this action following a meeting of the Board of Directors on May 31, 2007. The Company received notification
of cancellation of two customer contracts on May 22, 2007 and May 28, 2007.  In addition, the Company’s largest customer
indicated to the Company that it would suspend further installations of systems on its vessels for a four month period. The Company
also received notification of the cancellation of a third customer contract on June 1, 2007.
 
Based on the cancellations and suspension
of installations, the Board of Directors decided that the Company’s installation schedule was severely jeopardized and the
ability to raise additional funds for the operations of the Company would be greatly impaired.  The Board directed management
to cease operations immediately in order to conserve cash and maximize the value of the Company.  Accordingly, the Company
ceased operations effective September 30, 2007 and was reclassified as a development stage enterprise, from the date of cessation
forward.



30
Table of Contents

 
 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 
 
 NOTE 1 – DESCRIPTION OF
BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
 
On August 4, 2009 the Company merged with
and into Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (“Ohr”).  Under the terms of the merger agreement Ohr became the surviving
corporation in the merger.  Each outstanding share of BBM common stock was converted into one share of Ohr common stock.  Each
outstanding share of BBM Series B convertible preferred stock was converted into one share of Ohr Series B convertible preferred
stock.  Additionally, all outstanding BBM options and warrants were assumed and converted into equivalent Ohr warrants
or options and maintained substantially identical terms.  Finally, each outstanding share of Ohr stock owned by BBM immediately
prior to the effective date of the merger ceased to be outstanding and was cancelled and retired.
 
In connection with consummating the Merger,
the Company filed a new Certificate of Incorporation in Delaware.  The new Certificate of Incorporation increased the
authorized capital stock of the Company to 180,000,000 shares of Common Stock, $0.0001 par value per share, and 15,000,000 shares
of serial preferred stock, $0.0001 par value per share, of which 6,000,000 shares have been designated as Series B Convertible
Preferred Stock, having substantially the same terms as the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock of BBM. The Board of Directors
of the Company also adopted the Company’s Bylaws.
 
The Company is a biotechnology rollup company
currently focused on development of the Company’s previously acquired compounds. With the addition of a new executive management
team in April 2010, the Company has shifted its strategy accordingly to focus on the development of two later stage lead products
for the treatment of cancer cachexia and wet-AMD.
 
NOTE 2 - GOING CONCERN
 
The Company's financial statements are prepared using accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America applicable to a going concern which contemplates the realization
of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has not yet established an ongoing source
of revenues sufficient to cover its operating costs and allow it to continue as a going concern. The ability of the Company to
continue as a going concern is dependent on the Company obtaining adequate capital to fund operating losses until it becomes profitable.
If the Company is unable to obtain adequate capital, it could be forced to cease operations. The Company has had no revenues and
has generated an accumulated deficit of approximately $27,075,512 ($5,446,764 accumulated during the development stage) as of September
30, 2011.
 
In order to continue as a going concern, the Company will need,
among other things, additional capital resources. Management's plan is to obtain such resources for the Company by seeking equity
and/or debt financing. However management cannot provide any assurances that the Company will be successful in accomplishing any
of its plans.
 
The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is dependent
upon its ability to successfully accomplish the plans described in the preceding paragraph and eventually secure other sources
of financing and attain profitable operations. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might
be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern.
 
NOTE 3 – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Accounting Basis
The Company’s financial statements
are prepared using the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The
Company has elected a September 30 fiscal year end.
 


31
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 
 
NOTE 3 – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
 
Reclassification of Financial Statement
Accounts
Certain amounts in the September 30, 2010 financial statements have
been reclassified to conform to the presentation in the September 30, 2011 financial statements.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers all highly-liquid
investments purchased with an original maturity date of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
Concentration of Credit Risk
Financial instruments, which potentially
subject us to concentrations of credit risk, consist principally of cash.   Our cash balances are maintained in accounts
held by major banks and financial institutions located in the United States.  The Company occasionally maintains amounts
on deposit with a financial institution that are in excess of the federally insured limit of $250,000. The risk is managed by maintaining
all deposits in high quality financial institutions. The Company had approximately $227,494 and $172,414 of cash balances in excess
of federally insured limits at September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment is recorded at cost
less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation and amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over the expected useful
life of the asset, after the asset is placed in service. The Company generally uses the following depreciable lives for its major
classifications of property and equipment:
 


Description
 
Useful Lives

Equipment
 
5 years

 
Expenditures associated with upgrades and enhancements that improve,
add functionality, or otherwise extend the life of property and equipment are capitalized, while expenditures that do not, such
as repairs and maintenance, are expensed as incurred.
 
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived tangible assets and definite-lived intangible assets
are reviewed for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets
may not be recoverable. The Company uses an estimate of undiscounted future net cash flows of the assets over the remaining useful
lives in determining whether the carrying value of the assets is recoverable. If the carrying values of the assets exceed the expected
future cash flows of the assets, the Company recognizes an impairment loss equal to the difference between the carrying values
of the assets and their estimated fair values. Impairment of long-lived assets is assessed at the lowest levels for which there
are identifiable cash flows that are independent from other groups of assets. The evaluation of long-lived assets requires the
Company to use estimates of future cash flows. However, actual cash flows may differ from the estimated future cash flows used
in these impairment tests. As of September 30, 2011 and 2010, management does not believe any of the Company’s long-lived
assets were impaired.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
In accordance with ASC 820, the carrying
value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity
of these instruments.  ASC 820 clarifies the definition of fair value, prescribes methods for measuring fair value, and
establishes a fair value hierarchy to classify the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows:
 
Level 1-Inputs are unadjusted quoted prices
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities available at the measurement date.
 

32
Table of Contents

OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 
 
NOTE 3 – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
 
Fair Value of Financial
Instruments (Continued)
Level 2-Inputs are unadjusted quoted prices
for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets
that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable, and inputs derived from or corroborated by observable
market data. 
 
Level 3-Inputs are unobservable inputs
which reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions on what assumptions the market participants would use in pricing the
asset or liability based on the best available information.
 
The carrying amounts reported in the balance
sheets for cash, prepaid expenses, other current assets, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximate their fair market
value based on the short-term maturity of these instruments. The following table presents assets and liabilities that are measured
and recognized at fair value as of September 30, 2011 and 2010, on a non-recurring basis:
 


Assets and liabilities measured at fair 
  
  
  
 

value on a recurring and nonrecurring 
  
  
  
Total

basis at September 30, 2011: 
  
  
  
Carrying

Nonrecurring: 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Value

Stock warrant derivative liability 
$—    
$—    
$(5,893,544) 
$(5,893,544)

  
$—    
$—    
$(5,893,544) 
$(5,893,544)

 
 


Assets and liabilities measured at fair 
  
  
  
 

value on a recurring and nonrecurring 
  
  
  
Total

basis at September 30, 2010: 
  
  
  
Carrying

Nonrecurring: 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Value

Stock warrant derivative liability 
$—    
$—    
$(1,387,656) 
$(1,387,656)

  
$—    
$—    
$(1,387,656) 
$(1,387,656)

 
A financial instrument's
categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
The following is a description of the valuation methodology used to measure fair value, as well as the general classification of
such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
 
Stock Warrant Derivative
Liability:     Market prices are not available for the Company's warrants nor are market prices of
similar warrants available. The Company assessed that the fair value of this liability approximates its carrying value since carrying
value has been adjusted to fair value.
 
The method described above may produce
a current fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. If a readily
determined market value became available or if actual performance were to vary appreciably from assumptions used, assumptions may
need to be adjusted, which could result in material differences from the recorded carrying amounts. The Company believes its method
of determining fair value is appropriate and consistent with other market participants. However, the use of different methodologies
or different assumptions to value certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value.
 
The following tables
present the fair value of financial instruments as of September 30, 2011, by caption on the condensed balance sheet and by ASC
820 valuation hierarchy described above.
 


 
  
 Notes  
 Convertible  
Stock Warrant

Level 3 Reconciliation:
  
 Payable  
 Debentures  
Derivative

Level 3 assets and liabilities at September 30, 2010
  
$(17,486) 
$(51,115) 
$(1,387,656)

Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (net)
  
 17,486  
 51,115  
(4,505,888)

Total level 3 assets and liabilities at September 30, 2011
  
$—    
$—    
$(5,893,544)

 

33
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 
 
NOTE 3 – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
The Company generally does not use derivative
financial instruments to hedge exposures to cash-flow risks or market-risks that may affect the fair values of its financial instruments.
The Company utilizes various types of financing to fund our business needs, including warrants and other instruments not indexed
to our stock. The Company is required to record its derivative instruments at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives
are recognized in earnings in accordance with ASC 815.
 
Research and Development
The Company follows the policy of expensing
its research and development costs in the period in which they are incurred in accordance with ASC 730. The Company incurred net
research and development expenses of $521,969 and $302,553 during the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which
is included in general and administrative expense.
 
On July 20, 2010 the Company applied for
a grant under the IRS Qualifying Therapeutic Discovery Project (QTDP) program.  The application was approved and expenses
spent on research and development during the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 totaling $179,358 and $65,122 were approved
for reimbursement under the grant program, respectively.  These amounts have been recorded as grant receivables and as
a reduction in research and development expenses.
 
Share-based Compensation
The Company follows the provisions of ASC
718, “Share-Based Payments” which requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock
options, be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values.  The Company uses the Black-Scholes pricing
model for determining the fair value of stock based compensation.
 
Equity instruments issued to non-employees
for goods or services are accounted for at fair value and are marked to market until service is complete or a performance commitment
date is reached, whichever is earlier.
 
Income Taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability
method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
The charge for taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items, which are non-assessable or disallowed. It
is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
 
In July, 2006, the FASB issued ASC 740, Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a return.
ASC 740 provides guidance on the measurement, recognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions, along with accounting
for the related interest and penalties.  Under this pronouncement, the Company recognizes the financial statement benefit
of a tax position only after determining that a position would more likely than not be sustained based upon its technical merit
if challenged by the relevant taxing authority and taken by management to the court of the last resort. For tax positions meeting
the more-likely-than-not threshold, the amount recognized in the consolidated financial statements is the largest benefit that
has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the relevant tax authority. ASC 740 became effective for
the Company as of July 1, 2008 and had no material impact on the Company’s financial statements.


 
The Company’s policy is to recognize both interest and penalties
related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Interest and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits expected to result
in payment of cash within one year are classified as accrued liabilities, while those expected beyond one year are classified
as other liabilities. The Company has not recorded any interest and penalties since its inception. 
 

34
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010

 
NOTE 3 – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
 
The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal tax jurisdiction
and various state tax jurisdictions. The tax years for 2008 to 2010 remain open for examination by federal and/or state tax jurisdictions.
The Company is currently not under examination by any other tax jurisdictions for any tax years.
 
Loss Per Share
Basic earnings (loss) per common share is computed by dividing losses
attributable to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
 
Diluted earnings per Common Share is computed by dividing income
(loss) attributable to Common Shareholders by the weighted-average number of Shares of Common Stock outstanding during the period
increased to include the number of additional Shares of Common Stock that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive
securities had been issued. Potentially dilutive securities include outstanding convertible Preferred Stock, stock options, and
warrants. The dilutive effect of potentially dilutive securities is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the
treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, an increase in the fair market value of the Company’s Common Stock
can result in a greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive securities.
 
For the year ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, all of the Company’s
potentially dilutive securities (warrants, options, and convertible preferred stock) were excluded from the computation of diluted
earnings per share as they were anti-dilutive.  The total number of potentially dilutive shares that were excluded was
15,754,301 and -0- at September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08 to amend and simplify
tests for goodwill impairment by permitting an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely
than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary
to perform a two-step goodwill impairment test. The amendments in ASU 2011-08 are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment
tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Adoption of this new guidance is not expected to have a material
impact on the Company’s financial statements.
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04 to amend the wording used
to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurement
to (1) clarify the application of existing fair value measurement requirements and (2) change a particular principle or requirement
for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The primary purpose of the amendments are
to achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The amendments in ASU 2011-04 are
to be applied prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Adoption of this new guidance is
not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 
 

 

35
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 
NOTE 4 – PATENT COSTS
 
Patent costs represent the capitalized purchase price of assets
acquired in the secured party sale as part of the Company’s previously announced strategy to create a rollup of undervalued
biotechnology companies and assets. As of September 30, 2011, the Company had purchased $800,000 worth of biotechnology patents
and other intellectual property. In these acquisitions, the Company used approximately $300,000 in cash and issued a $500,000 convertible
debenture for the remainder of the cost which is secured by the acquired assets.
 

The Company amortizes its patents over life of the each patent.
During the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized $78,480 and $19,593 in amortization expense on the patents,
respectively. The amortization expense has been included  during research and development expense.
 
The below table show remaining amortization
for each of the five succeeding fiscal years.
 


2012
78,274

2013
77,790

2014
77,350

2015
74,558

2016
73,199

Thereafter
320,756

 
 
NOTE 5 – OTHER ASSETS
 
On October 29, 2010 the Company was awarded
a grant under the IRS Qualifying Therapeutic Discovery Project (QTDP) program.  The total amount of the grant of $244,480
was to be paid to the Company at the end of its fiscal years 2010 and 2011. The initial grant payment of $65,122 was in relation
to research and development expenses incurred during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. This amount was recorded as a grant
receivable on September 30, 2010 and was received during  October 2010. The remaining grant amount of $179,358 was in relation
to research and development expenses incurred during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. This amount was recorded as a grant
receivable on September 30, 2011 and was received during October 2011. The grant amounts were recorded as reductions to research and
development expenses.
 
During the year ended September 30, 2011, the Company sold certain
non-core assets for $87,500. The assets sold were acquired as part of a purchase of a larger portfolio of patents. The assets were
not part of the targeted biotechnology sector strategy and management did not expect to be able to use or sell these assets during
their useful lives and thus assigned an initial value of $-0- to these assets. As part of the transaction, the Company incurred
a broker’s fee of $17,000. Accordingly, the Company recognized a gain on the sale of assets of $70,500.
 
NOTE 6 – CONVERTIBLE DEBT
 
During the year ended September 30, 2009, the Company issued an
11% convertible note in the amount of $500,000, due June 20, 2011. Under the terms of the note, the Company paid $180,000 on December
15, 2009, and quarterly payments of $25,000 commencing on March 30, 2010, each of which were applied first towards the satisfaction
of accrued interest and then towards the satisfaction of principal. All unpaid principal and accrued interest on the notes was
convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock at the election of the purchasers at any time at the conversion price
of $0.40 per share.
 
On June 23, 2010 the holder of the note converted $10,000 of principal
into 25,000 shares of common stock at $0.40 per share. The balance of the convertible note as of September 30, 2010 was $51,115.
On December 29, 2010, the Company repaid the convertible note in full including all accrued interest. Accordingly, the security
interest issued in connection with the note was released.
 

36
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 
NOTE 7 – DERIVATIVE LIABILITY AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
 
Effective July 31, 2009, the Company adopted ASC Topic No. 815-40
which defines determining whether an instrument (or embedded feature) is solely indexed to an entity’s own stock. On January
15, 2010 the Company issued 5,583,336 warrants (the “Class H” Warrants) with an exercise price of $0.55 to warrant
holders that had exercised warrants during the period at $0.18.  On December 30, 2010, the Company issued 2,520,000 warrants
(the “Class I” Warrants) with an exercise price of $0.55 that were attached to shares sold to a group of institutional
and accredited investors for gross proceeds of $1,050,000.  
 
The exercise price of both sets of warrants are subject to certain
“reset” provisions in the event the Company subsequently issues common stock, stock warrants, stock options or convertible
debt with a stock price, exercise price or conversion price lower than $0.18 for the Class H Warrants and $0.25 for the Class I
Warrants. If these provisions are triggered, the exercise price of all the warrants will be reduced.  As a result, the
warrants are not considered to be solely indexed to the Company’s own stock and are not afforded equity treatment.
 
The fair value of the derivative liability was calculated using
a Lattice Model that values the compound embedded derivatives based on future projections of the various potential outcomes. The
assumptions that are analyzed and incorporated into the model include the conversion feature with the full ratchet and weighted
average anti-dilution reset, expectations of future stock price performance and expectations of future issuances based on the Company’s
prior stock history, prior issuances of stock, and expected capital requirements.  Probabilities were assigned to various
scenarios in which the reset provisions would go into effect and weighted accordingly.  
 

The total fair value of the Class H Warrants, amounting to $2,868,242,
has been recognized as a derivative liability on the date of issuance with all future changes in the fair value of these warrants
being recognized in earnings in the Company’s statement of operations under the caption “Other income (expense) –
Gain (loss) on warrant derivative liability” until such time as the warrants are exercised or expire.  Because
the Class H Warrants were issued in conjunction with common stock that had been exchanged for warrants with an exercise price of
$0.18, the fair value on the date of issuance includes the net cash proceeds from the sale of stock of $1,005,000 and the fair
value of the $0.18 warrants which were forfeited valued at $2,867,856 on the date of exercise.
 
The total fair value of the Class I Warrants, amounting to $528,847,
has been recognized as a derivative liability on the date of issuance with all future changes in the fair value of these warrants
being recognized in earnings in the Company’s statement of operations under the caption “Other income (expense) –
Gain (loss) on warrant derivative liability” until such time as the warrants are exercised or expire. The total cash
proceeds of $1,050,000 were first applied to the warrants with the remaining $521,153 allocated to the common shares and recorded
in additional paid-in capital.
 
ASC 815 requires Company management to assess the fair market value
of certain derivatives at each reporting period and recognize any change in the fair market value as an other income or expense
item.  The Company’s only two assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are its derivative
liabilities associated with the Class H and Class I warrants.  At September 30, 2011, the Company revalued the warrants
and determined that, during the year ended September 30, 2011, the Company’s derivative liability increased by $3,977,041
to $5,893,544.  The Company recognized a corresponding loss on derivative liability in conjunction with this revaluation.
At September 30, 2010, the Company revalued the warrants and determined that, during the year ended September 30, 2010, the Company’s
derivative liability decreased by $1,480,586 to $1,387,656.  The Company recognized a corresponding gain on derivative
liability in conjunction with this revaluation.

 
 

37
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 

 
NOTE 8 – CAPITAL STOCK
 
On December 15, 2009, investors exercised 5,583,336 warrants via
a cashless exchange for 4,547,238 shares of the Company’s common stock.
 
On January 15, 2010, the Company completed
a $1,005,000 financing in which the Company issued 5,583,336 common shares to holders of the Class F Warrants who exercised their
warrants at an exercise price of $0.18. Additionally, as an inducement to the holders to exercise the Warrants, the Company issued
5,583,336 Class H warrants to the Class F warrant holders who exercised their Class F warrants. The Class H Warrants have a 5 year
term with a strike price of $0.55.
On June 23, 2010 the holder of the convertible debenture elected
to convert $10,000 of the remaining principal balance into 25,000 common shares at $0.40 per share pursuant to the conversion rights
of the note.
 
On August 5, 2010 the Company issued 50,000 shares of its common
stock to a consultant for services to be provided to the Company. The shares were valued at $0.21 per share based on the market
price of the shares on the date of issuance.  The Company recorded the corresponding $10,500 expense to general and administrative
expense.
 
On November 5, 2010 the Company issued 50,000 shares of common stock
to a consultant for services. The shares were valued at $0.20 per share based on the market price of the shares on the date of
issuance.  The Company recorded the corresponding $10,000 expense to general and administrative expense.

 
On December 30, 2010 the Company sold 4,200,000 shares of common
stock to a group of institutional and accredited investors for gross proceeds of $1,050,000. As of December 31, 2010 the Company
had received $595,000 in cash and recorded a stock subscription receivable for the remaining $455,000, of which all had been
received as of February 14, 2011. In addition, the investors received 2,520,000 five year Class I Warrants to purchase common
stock at an exercise price of $0.55 per share valued at $528,847, leaving a net of $521,153 for the value of the shares issued.
 
NOTE 9
- WARRANTS
 
The Company has determined the estimated value of the warrants granted
to employees and non-employees in exchange for services and financing expenses using the Black-Scholes pricing model and the following
assumptions: stock price at valuation, $0.21-$0.73; expected term of 3-5 years, exercise price of $0.50-$0.67, a risk free interest
rate of 1.15-2.90 percent, a dividend yield of 0 percent and volatility of 132-276 percent.
 
Between October 29 and December 4, 2009, the Company issued a total
of 236,000 warrants for services rendered to the Company.  As a result of this issuance, the Company recognized $88,562
in consulting expense.
 
On April 9, 2010 the Company granted 10,000 warrants as payment for an outstanding accounts payable balance
of $3,991.
 
In connection with the January 15, 2010
financing, the Company issued 5,583,336 Class H warrants to the Series F warrant holders who exercised their Series F warrants.
The Class H Warrants have a 5 year term with a strike price of $0.55.
On June 22, 2010 the Company authorized the issuance of 93,000 warrants
for services to the Company.  Of these authorized warrants, 90,000 were issued on June 23, 2010 once the contract for
services was finalized. These warrants have a 5 year term with a strike price of $0.50. The remaining 3,000 warrants were issued
September 2, 2010. These warrants have a three year term with a strike price of $0.50.  The combined value of these warrants
was $41,129 at the time of issuance and the value was expensed as research and development expense.
 
In connection with the December 30, 2010 financing, the investors
received 2,520,000 Class I five year warrants to purchase common stock at an exercise price of $0.55 per share. The exercise price
of these warrants contains certain reset provisions which require the fair value of the warrants to be reported as a liability
and not in permanent equity. On the date of issuance, the Company calculated the fair value of these warrants to be $528,847 (see
note 7). The total cash proceeds of $1,050,000 were first applied to the warrants with the remaining $521,153 being allocated to
the common shares and being recorded in additional paid-in capital.
 

38
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 
NOTE
9 – WARRANTS (CONTINUED)
 
Between May 12 and August 23, 2011, the Company issued a total of
625,000 warrants for services rendered to the Company.  As of September 30, 2011, 230,000 warrants with a fair value
of $123,170 had vested. The Company recorded a corresponding expense of $71,687 to professional fees and $51,483 to research and
development expense.
 
 Below is a table summarizing the warrants
issued and outstanding as of September 30, 2011.
 
 


Date 
Number 
Exercise 
Contractual 
Expiration 
Value if

Issued 
Outstanding 
Price 
Life (Years) 
Date 
Exercised

Balance 10/1/08 
 13,509,857  
 1.18  
 5  
 Various  
 15,941,631 

03/20/09 
 5,000,000  
 0.50  
 5  
 03/31/14  
 2,500,000 

06/03/09 
 11,166,672  
 0.18  
 5  
 06/03/14  
 2,010,001 

09/30/09 
 150,000  
 0.40  
 5  
 06/30/14  
 60,000 

Expired 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

Balance 9/30/09 
 29,826,529  
 0.69  
 —    
 —    
 20,511,632 

10/09/09 
 88,000  
 0.50  
 5  
 10/29/14  
 44,000 

11/09/09 
 18,000  
 0.50  
 5  
 11/09/14  
 9,000 

12/04/09 
 130,000  
 0.60  
 2  
 12/04/11  
 78,000 

12/15/09 
 (5,583,336) 
 0.18  
 —    
 —    
 (1,005,000)

01/15/10 
 5,583,336  
 0.55  
 5  
 01/15/15  
 3,070,835 

01/15/10 
 (5,583,336) 
 0.18  
 —    
 —    
 (1,005,000)

04/09/10 
 10,000  
 0.55  
 5  
 4/9/2015  
 5,500 

07/23/10 
 93,000  
 0.50  
 3  
 07/23/13  
 46,500 

Expired 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

Balance 9/30/10 
 24,582,193  
 0.89  
 —    
 —    
 21,755,466 

12/30/10 
 2,520,000  
 0.55  
 5  
 12/30/15  
 1,386,000 

05/12/11 
 55,000  
 0.50  
 5  
 05/12/16  
 27,500 

06/13/11 
 300,000  
 0.50  
 2  
 06/13/13  
 150,000 

07/15/11 
 100,000  
 0.54  
 5  
 07/15/16  
 54,000 

07/15/11 
 120,000  
 0.54  
 2  
 07/15/13  
 64,800 

08/23/11 
 50,000  
 0.67  
 3  
 08/23/14  
 33,500 

Expired 
 (1,090,568) 
 1.19  
 —    
 —    
 (1,297,776)

Balance 9/30/11 
 26,636,625  
 0.83  
 —    
 —    
 22,173,490 

 

  
Note 10 – Options
 
The Company has determined the estimated value of the options granted
to employees and non-employees in exchange for services and financing expenses using the Black-Scholes pricing model and the following
assumptions: stock price at valuation, $0.40; expected term of five years, exercise price of $0.50, a risk free interest rate of
2.60 percent, a dividend yield of 0 percent and volatility of 277 percent.
 
On April 12, 2010 the Company granted 1,000,000 options to employees
as part of its 2009 stock option plan.  The Company calculated a fair value of $0.40 per option. Of the 1,000,000 options
issued, 520,000 vested upon issuance and the remaining 480,000 vest over the five year life of the options.  As of September
30, 2011 and 2010, 670,000 options have vested resulting in compensation expense of $47,900 and $219,541 for the years ended September
30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

 

39
Table of Contents

 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.
(A Development Stage Company)
Notes to the Financial Statements
September 30, 2011 and 2010
 
NOTE 10
– OPTIONS (CONTINUED)
 
Below is a table summarizing the options issued
and outstanding as of September 30, 2011.
 


Date 
Number 
Exercise 
Contractual 
Expiration 
Value if

Issued 
Outstanding 
Price 
Life (Years) 
Date 
Exercised

Prior 10/1/2008 
 —    
$—    
 —    
 —    
$—   

04/09/09 
 579,141  
 0.65  
 5  
 04/09/13  
 376,442 

09/30/09 
 579,141  
 0.65  
 —    
 —    
 376,442 

04/12/10 
 1,000,000  
 0.50  
 5  
 04/12/15  
 500,000 

Expired 
 (32,176) 
 0.65  
 —    
 —    
 (20,914)

09/30/10 
 1,546,965  
$0.55  
 —    
 —    
$855,528 

Issued 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

Expired 
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —    
 —   

09/30/11 
 1,546,965  
$0.55  
 —    
 —    
$855,528 

 
 
NOTE 11 – INCOME TAXES
 
ASC 740 requires the reduction of deferred
tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all
of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In the Company’s opinion, it is uncertain whether they will generate sufficient
taxable income in the future to fully utilize the net deferred tax asset. Accordingly, a valuation allowance equal to the deferred
tax asset has been recorded. The total deferred tax asset is calculated by multiplying a 41% combined marginal tax rate by the
cumulative NOL of $3,447,651. The total valuation allowance is equal to the total deferred tax asset which includes derivative
liabilities and other stock based compensation.
 
The tax effects of significant items comprising
the Company's net deferred taxes as of September 30, 2011 and 2010 were as follows: 
 


40
Table of Contents

 
NOTE 11 – INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
 


  
 2011  
 2010 

Cumulative NOL 
$3, 447,651  
$2,504,244 

  
    
   

Deferred Tax assets: 
    
   

(34% Federal, 7% New York) 
    
   

Net operating loss carry forwards 
 1, 413,537  
 1,026,740 

Derivative liability 
 1,023,547  
 (607,040)

Warrants and options 
 74,239  
 —   

Valuation allowance 
 (2,511,323) 
 (419,700)

  
$—    
$—   

 
The income tax provision
differs from the amount of income tax determined by applying the combined U.S. federal and state income tax rates of 41% to pretax
income from continuing operations for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 due to the following:
 


  
2011 
2010

Book income (loss) from operations at combined statutory rates 
$(2,091,623) 
$202,694 

Change in valuation allowance 
 2,091,623  
 (202,694)

  
$—    
$—   

 
 

 
The Company’s net operating loss
carry forwards of approximately $3, 447,651 expire in various years through 2030.
 
The Company has had numerous transactions
in its common stock.  Such transactions may have resulted in a change in the Company's ownership, as defined in the Internal
Revenue Code Section 382.  Such change may result in an annual limitation on the amount of the Company's taxable income that
may be offset with its net operating loss carry forwards.  The Company has not evaluated the impact of Section 382, if any,
on its ability to utilize its net operating loss carry forwards in future years.
 
In July, 2006, the FASB issued ASC 740, Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions taken or expected to be taken in
a return. ASC 740 provides guidance on the measurement, recognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions, along with
accounting for the related interest and penalties. ASC 740 became effective as of January 1, 2007 and had no impact on the Company’s
financial statements.
 
NOTE 11 – SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
On October 31, 2011, the Company agreed
to extend the term of the 11,985,367 common stock purchase warrants, expiring October 31, 2011, to October 31, 2012, subject to
certain amended provisions. These provisions include removal of the cashless exercise provision and early termination of the extension
period in the event that Ohr’s common stock trades at or above $1.50 for 5 consecutive days. The warrants are exercisable
at $1.19.
 
On December 16, 2011, the Company completed
a private placement offering pursuant to which the Company sold 1,833,342 shares of its common stock at a price of $0.60 per share
for gross proceeds of $1,100,000. Purchasers of the shares also received an aggregate of 916,678 Class J Warrants to purchase common
stock at an exercise price of $0.65 per share and exercisable for a period of 5 years.
 
In accordance with
ASC 855, management evaluated subsequent events through the date these financial statements were issued and the Company had no
additional material subsequent events to report.
 

41
Table of Contents

Part III
ITEM 9	CHANGES IN AND
DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
	None.
ITEM 9A	CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES
The Company’s management, including
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal
control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud that could occur. A control system, no matter
how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives
will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls
must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation
of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and
instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments
in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented
by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design
of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance
that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation
of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes
in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.
The Company knows of no fraudulent activities
or any material accounting irregularities. The Company does not have an independent audit committee. The Company believes that
an independent committee is not required for OTC Bulletin Board listings, but may further review the advisability and feasibility
of establishing such a committee in the future.
The Company is aware of the general standards
and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and has implemented procedures and rules to comply, so far as applicable, such
as a prohibition on company loans to management and affiliates. The Company does not have any audit committee as it does not believe
the act requires a separate committee for companies that are reporting companies, but not registered under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 (e.g., companies registered under Section 15(d)) and whose shares trade only on the OTC Bulletin Board.
Management’s Annual Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, and effected by the board of directors and management to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with US Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (“GAAP”) including those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets, (ii) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with US GAAP and that receipts
and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors, and (iii) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.
 
Under the supervision and with the participation
of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (COSO) as set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework. Based on our evaluation under the framework
in Internal Control - Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were ineffective
as of September 30, 2011 based on material weaknesses identified by management. The most significant material weakness that led
management to this conclusion is the lack of internal controls present in the Company’s internal control processes. Management
expects to begin to address this and other weaknesses as the Company’s capital position improves and as more employees are
hired.
 	   

42
Table of Contents

 	   
This Annual Report does not include an attestation
report of the Company’s current independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial
reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by the Company’s current independent registered public
accounting firm pursuant to rules of the SEC that permit the Company to provide only management’s report in this Annual
Report because the Company is a smaller reporting company under the SEC’s rules. 
 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
 
There
were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
under the Exchange Act) during the period of this annual report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  
 
ITEM 9B	OTHER INFORMATION
NONE
 
ITEM 10	DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Following this table is a brief biographical
description for each of the management principals with a brief description of their business experience and present relationship
to Ohr as of September 30, 2011, together with all required relevant disclosures for the past five years.
Following the biographical information
for the directors and officers is a remuneration table showing current compensation, and following this table is a security ownership
table showing security ownership of the principal officers and directors, as well as those holding 5% or more of the issued and
outstanding stock.


Name
 
Position
 
Current Term of Office

Ira Greenstein
 
Chairman
 
Ongoing

Irach Taraporewala
 
CEO and President 
 
Ongoing

Sam Backenroth
 
Interim CFO/Vice President of Business Development
 
Ongoing

Orin Hirschman
 
Director
 
Ongoing

 
Ira Greenstein –Chairman of the Board, Director 49
Mr. Greenstein has served as a Director
of Ohr Pharmaceutical since March 30, 2007. Mr. Greenstein has since 2001 been the President of IDT Corporation (NYSE:
IDT), a local, long distance and calling card services provider. Prior to joining IDT in 2000, Mr. Greenstein was a partner
in the law firm of Morrison & Foerster LLP, where he served as the Chairman of that firm's New York office's Business Department.
Concurrently, Mr. Greenstein served as General Counsel and Secretary of Net2Phone, Inc. Prior to joining Morrison & Foerster,
Mr. Greenstein was an associate in the New York and Toronto offices of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Mr. Greenstein
served on the Securities Advisory Committee and as second counsel to the Ontario Securities Commission. Mr. Greenstein serves
on the Board of Document Security Systems, Inc. (AMEX:DMC), is a Director of Zedge, Inc. and is on the Board of Advisors of the
Columbia Law School Center on Corporate Governance. Mr. Greenstein received a B.S. from Cornell University and a J.D. from
Columbia University Law School.



43
Table of Contents


Dr. Irach B. Taraporewala- Chief Executive Officer and President
55
Dr. Taraporewala has served as CEO of
the Company since April 2010. Dr. Taraporewala has over 30 years in drug development and regulatory affairs experience. He was
formerly the Vice President of Regulatory Affairs and Clinical Research at Austin, TX-based Mystic Pharmaceuticals Inc. where he
led the regulatory strategy for the company's ophthalmic and intranasal drug products and drug delivery systems. Prior to that,
Dr. Taraporewala served as Senior Consultant in the Drug Development Consulting division of Boston-based PAREXEL International
Corp., a leading global pharmaceutical services provider, where he provided technical expertise and regulatory advice to small
and large biotechnology and pharmaceutical company clients worldwide, and also conducted due diligence for companies and venture
capital firms on technology and portfolio evaluation and product acquisitions. From 1998 to 2004, Dr. Taraporewala was Director
of Chemistry and Quality Control at Yonkers, NY-based Advanced Viral Research Corporation where he helped take OHR/AVR118, an immunomodulator
drug, into clinical trials for AIDS, cancer cachexia and rheumatoid arthritis. At Advanced Viral Research he worked closely with
Shalom Hirschman, M.D., Ohr's Chief Science Advisor. Prior to that, Dr. Taraporewala worked in research and development at Ciba-Geigy,
which later merged with Sandoz to become Novartis. He has also served as principal investigator on four National Institute of Health
and U.S. Department of Defense funded biomedical research grants on antiviral drugs, DNA-based cancer diagnostics and on antimalarial
compound development. Dr. Taraporewala earned bachelors' and masters' degrees in chemistry and microbiology from the University
of Bombay, India and a Ph.D. in medicinal chemistry from the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. He conducted postdoctoral research
at the University of Texas at Austin, the University of Minnesota and the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research. Dr. Taraporewala
has multiple scientific publications and patents to his credit, and has lectured extensively.
 Sam Backenroth- Interim Chief Financial Officer and
Vice President of Business Development 27
Mr. Backenroth has served as Interim CFO
and Vice President of Business Development since April 2010. Mr. Backenroth has previously worked as an investment banker with
The Benchmark Company LLC, an investment banking firm specializing in micro-cap biotech transactions. While at Benchmark, he helped
fund numerous small biotech companies raise in excess of $75 million of growth equity capital through a variety of structures.
Mr. Backenroth also acted as an advisor to multiple public and private biotech companies in assisting with business development
activities, joint ventures, licensing, strategic partnerships, and mergers & acquisitions. He graduated with honors from Touro
College with a Bachelors degree in finance.
Orin Hirschman –Director 43
Mr. Hirschman has served as a Director
at Ohr since March 2009. Mr. Hirschman has over 20 years of experience in money management, leveraged buyouts, restructuring and
venture capital. Mr. Hirschman currently manages three private investment funds including the Adam Smith Investment fund as well
as the newly organized AIGH Investment Partners. Mr. Hirschman's experience in the securities industry includes tenures with Wesray
Capital, the investment firm founded by former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury William E. Simon, and Randall Rose & Company,
a $100 million money management firm based in New York. Mr. Hirschman has been actively involved in the financing and structuring
of over 70 companies, including dozens of high technology companies. Over the last four years, personally and through AIGH Investment
Partners and related entities, Mr. Hirschman has structured and led 18 private placements in high technology companies. These deals
include several well publicized private placements in companies such as 8x8 Inc. (NASDAQ:EGHT), the second largest independent
VoIP company, Tegal Corp. (NASDAQ:TGAL), the former semiconductor equipment division of Motorola, and Sigma Designs (NASDAQ:SIGM).
Mr. Hirschman received his M.B.A. from New York University.
Code of Ethics
We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics (“Code of Ethics”) that applies to all of our directors and employees, including our chief executive officer,
chief financial officer and other officers. Our Code of Ethics includes provisions covering conflicts of interest, the reporting
of illegal or unethical behavior, business gifts and entertainment, compliance with laws and regulations, insider trading practices,
antitrust laws, bribes or kickbacks, corporate record keeping, and corporate accounting and disclosure. The Code of Ethics is available
at the Investor Relations section of our website at www.ohrpharmaceutical.com. Our Code of Ethics may also be obtained without
charge upon written request to Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. 489 5th Avenue, 28th Floor, New York, NY 11017, Attention:
Investor Relations.


44
Table of Contents


Nominating Committee
Due to its current reduced staffing levels,
the Company does not have a Nominating Committee for nomination of Directors. The Company’s current Directors, Messrs. Greenstein
and Hirschman, participate in the consideration of director nominees.
There are no material changes to the procedures
by which security holders may recommend nominees to Ohr’s Board of Directors. To date, the Board of Directors has not received
any director nominations from stockholders of the Company.
The Board of Directors will consider director
candidates recommended by stockholders. The Board does not intend to alter the manner in which it evaluates candidates based on
whether the candidate was recommended by a stockholder or not. Stockholders who wish to recommend individuals for consideration
by the Board to become nominees for election to the Board may do so by delivering a written recommendation to Ohr at the following
address: Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc., 489 5th Avenue, 28th Floor, New York, NY 10017, at least six months prior
to any meeting at which directors are to be elected. Submissions must include the full name of the proposed nominee, a description
of the proposed nominee's business experience for at least the previous five years, complete biographical information, a description
of the proposed nominee's qualifications as a director and a representation that the nominating stockholder is a beneficial or
record owner of the Company's stock. Any such submission must be accompanied by the written consent of the proposed nominee to
be named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
Audit Committee
Due to its current staffing levels, the
Company does not have an Audit Committee. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is acting as the Registrant’s audit committee.
Mr. Greenstein is independent. Mr. Hirschman is not independent.
ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE 


 
 
 
 
Annual Compensation
 
Long-Term Compensation
 
 
 
 


Name and
Principal Position
 
Year
 

Salary
($)
 

Bonus
($)
 

Stock Awards
($) 
 

Option 
Awards
($)
 

Non-Equity 
Incentive 
Plan
        Compensation
($)
 

Change in 
Pension 
Value and
Non-Qualified 
Deferred 
Compensation 
Earnings ($)
 

All Other
        Compensation
($)
 

Total
($)

Andrew Limpert Former Director, CEO and President (1)
 
2011
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0

 
 
2010
 
7,000
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
7,000

Ira Greenstein, Chairman and Director
 
2011
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0

 
 
2010
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0


Irach Taraporewala
President and CEO
 
2011
 
130,000
 
0
 
0
 
39,917
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
169,917

 
 
2010
 
60,938
 
0
 
0
 
169,646
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
230,584


Sam Backenroth
VP Bus. Development Interim CFO
 
2011
 
52,000
 
20,000
 
0
 
7,983
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
79,983

 
 
2010
 
23,833
 
0
 
0
 
49,896
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
73,729

 
 (1)	Mr. Limpert served as a Director of the Registrant
from 2002 to April 2010 and served as the CEO and President of the Registrant from November 2007 to April 2010. Mr. Limpert resigned
from all of his positions in the Company in April 2010.
 

45
Table of Contents

Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End
A.
Option Awards 
The following table provides certain
information with respect to individual grants during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 to each of our named executive
officers of common share purchase options relating to our common shares:


Name
 

Number of Common 
Shares Underlying
Unexercised Options 
(#) Exercisable
 

Number of Common 
Shares Underlying
Unexercised Options 
(#) Unexercisable
 

Equity Incentive Plan 
Awards: Number of 
Securities Underlying Unexercised 
Unearned Options (#)
 

Option 
Exercise 
Price ($)
 

Option 
Expiration 
Date


Ira Greenstein(1)
Chairman and Director
 
—
 
—
 
—
 
 —
 
—


Irach Taraporewala
CEO and President
 
525,000
 
—
 
275,000
 
$0.50
 
4/13/2015


Sam Backenroth
VP Bus. Development Interim CFO
 
145,000
 
—
 
55,000
 
$0.50
 
4/13/2015

 

(1) Mr. Greenstein has served as Chairman and Director of the Company since March
2007. 
B.
Stock Awards  
The following table provides certain information
with respect to individual grants during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 to each of our named executive officers
of common shares:
 


Name
 

Number of Shares 
or Units of Stock 
That Have Not 
Vested (#)
 

Market Value of 
Shares or Units of 
Stock That Have 
Not Vested ($)
 

Equity Incentive Plan 
Awards: Number of 
Unearned Shares, Units 
or Other Rights That 
Have Not Vested (#)
 

Equity Incentive Plan 
Awards: Market or 
Payout Value of 
Unearned Shares, 
Units or Other Rights 
That Have Not 
Vested ($)


Ira Greenstein (1)
Chairman and Director
 
—
 
—
 
—
 
—


Irach Taraporewala
CEO and President
 
—
 
—
 
—
 
—


Sam Backenroth
VP Bus. Development Interim CFO
 
—
 
—
 
—
 
. —

 

(1)	Mr. Greenstein has served
as Chairman and Director of the Company since March 2007.
No named executive officer received any
grants of stock for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.
Employment Contracts
On April 8, 2010, the Registrant entered
into employment agreements with Dr. Irach Taraporewala, who serves as Chief Executive Officer at an annual salary of $130,000,
and Sam Backenroth, who serves as Vice President of Business Development and Interim Chief Financial Officer at an annual salary
of $62,000.  The agreements also provided for equity grants described above. The Registrant currently has no employment arrangements
with Mr. Greenstein or Mr. Hirschman.

46
Table of Contents


Remuneration of Officers
Mr. Limpert received cash compensation
from the Company in fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 in the amount of $1,000 per month beginning in May 2009 and
ending in June 2010. Dr. Taraporewala and Mr. Backenroth receive cash compensation pursuant to their employment contracts from
their hiring date in April 2010 through the end of our fiscal year.
Compensation of Directors
During fiscal 2011, no Director received
any warrants to purchase common stock of the registrant.
 
ITEM 12	SECURITY OWNERSHIP
OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The following table sets forth
the ownership, as of January 13, 2012, of our voting securities by each person known by us to be the beneficial owner of 5%
or more of any class of our voting securities, by each of our directors, and by all executive officers and our directors as a
group. To the best of our knowledge, all persons named below have sole voting and investment power with respect to such
shares.
BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF 5% OR MORE OF
REGISTRANT'S VOTING SECURITIES
 


Name and Address of Beneficial Owner
Shares Owned
Voting Convertible Preferred Series B (1)
Right to Acquire (2)
Common and  Preferred Shares Owned Beneficially
Fully Diluted Ownership Percentage (3)

AIGH Investment Partners, LLC (4)
4,060,510
500,000
2,011,107
6,571,617
13.38%

6006 Berkeley Avenue
 
 
 
 
 

Baltimore, MD 21209
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Globis related entities (5)
3,346,149
388,889
1,689,304
5,424,342
11.11%

60 Broad Street
 
 
 
 
 

New York, NY  10004
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

GCK Corporation
3,053,891
555,556
1,592,317
5,201,764
10.68%

4000 Hollywood Blvd. 530 N
 
 
 
 
 

Hollywood, FL  33021
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

South Ferry #2, LP
2,845,917
 
1,357,519
4,203,436
8.67%

1 State Street Plaza, 29th Floor
 
 
 
 
 

New York, NY  10004
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Camco
2,022,970
555,556
1,043,404
3,621,930
7.52%

466 Arbuckle Avenue
 
 
 
 
 

Cedarhurst, NY  11516
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

FAME Associates
1,878,700
277,778
985,123
3,141,601
6.53%

111 Broadway, 20th Floor
 
 
 
 
 

New York, NY 10006
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

American Investments
1,815,312
 
881,480
2,696,792
5.62%

P.O. Box 3236
 
 
 
 
 

Ramat Gam 52131 Israel
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Associated Baltimore LLC
1,308,018
555,556
735,556
2,599,130
5.43%

PO Box 172
 
 
 
 
 

Lawrence, NY 11559
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Ira Greenstein (6)
362,886
200,000
586,094
1,148,980
2.41%

c/o Ohr Pharmaceutical
 
 
 
 
 

489 5th Avenue, 28th Floor
 
 
 
 
 

New York, NY 10017
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Irach Taraporewala (7)
45,000
 
825,500
870,500
1.82%

c/o Ohr Pharmaceutical
 
 
 
 
 

489 5th Avenue, 28th Floor
 
 
 
 
 

New York, NY 10017
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Sam Backenroth (8)
10,000
 
206,000
216,000
0.46%

c/o Ohr Pharmaceutical
 
 
 
 
 

489 5th Avenue, 28th Floor
 
 
 
 
 

New York, NY 10017
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

All Officers and Directors as a Group (9)
4,478,396
700,000
3,628,701
8,807,097
17.35%


47
Table of Contents

 
 


(1) Shares issued in the June 1, 2009 financing convertible to common stock and voting with common as a single class.

(2) Rounded to nearest share; warrants are warrants to purchase common stock of the Registrant.

(3) Calculated on the basis of 41,535,922 shares of Common Stock outstanding plus the number of shares such holder has the right to acquire and 5,583,336 preferred shares issued in the June 1, 2009 financing.

(4) Mr. Hirschman has sole voting and dispositive power over shares held by AIGH Investments.

(5) Mr. Packer has sole voting and dispositive power over 908,642 common shares, 388,889 preferred shares and 448,889 warrants held by Mr. Packer personally. Mr. Packer shares voting and dispositive power over 1,549,071 common shares and 741,719 warrants held by Globis Capital Partners, and 888,436 common shares and 507,181 warrants held by Globis Overseas Fund Ltd.

(6) Includes a five-year warrant granted to Mr. Greenstein for his services as a director and Chairman of the Company, issued on April 9, 2008, exercisable for 386,094 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.65 per share.

(7) Includes a five-year option issued to Dr. Taraporewala on April 12, 2010 under the Company's 2009 ESOP plan exercisable for 800,000 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.50 per share. 525,000 of these options are currently vested and 275,000 are unvested.

(8) Includes a five-year option issued to Mr. Backenroth on April 12, 2010 under the Compnay's 2009 ESOP plan exercisable for 200,000 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.50 per share. 145,000 of these options are currently vested and 55,000 are unvested.

(9) Mr. Greenstein and Mr. Hirschman are serving as directors of the Company.  Dr. Taraporewala is serving as CEO and President and Mr. Backenroth is serving as Interim CFO.

 
Changes in Control
There are currently no arrangements which
would result in a change in our control.
ITEM 13	CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS,
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The Company is not aware of any further
transactions which would require disclosure under this section by the Company and any affiliated party.
ITEM 14	PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
FEES AND SERVICES
Prior to the Merger, Child, Van Wagoner
and Bradshaw served as the Company’s principal auditors. After the Merger, Rothstein, Kass & Company, Broadband’s
auditor, continued as the Company’s auditor. On April 17, 2008 the Company’s Board of Directors appointed Child,
Van Wagoner and Bradshaw to return as the Company’s auditors, and Rothstein, Kass & Company had no disagreements with
Ohr.
For fiscal year 2010, Child Van Wagoner
& Bradshaw charged the Company a total of $23,729 for independent accounting and auditing fees.
For fiscal year 2011, Child Van Wagoner
& Bradshaw charged the Company a total of $32,000 for independent accounting and auditing fees.
The following table represents aggregate
fees billed to the Company for fiscal years ending September 30, 2011 and 2010 by Child, Van Wagoner & Bradshaw, the Company’s
principal auditor.


  
Fiscal Year Ended

  
September 30, 2011 (3) 
September 30, 2010 (2)

Audit Fees 
$32,000  
$16,790 

Tax Fees (1) 
$—    
$6,660 

All Other Fees 
$—    
$279 

Total Fees 
$32,000  
$23,729 

———————
(1)	Fees paid for preparation and filing of the Company’s
federal and state income tax returns.
(2)	Fees billed to the Company through September 30,
2010.
(3)	Fees billed to the Company through September 30,
2011.
All fees described above were approved
by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has determined that the rendering of the foregoing services other than audit
services by Child, Van Wagoner & Bradshaw, is compatible with maintaining the principal accountant's independence.

48
Table of Contents

Part IV
ITEM 15	EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES
Documents listed below are filed as exhibits
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(a) Exhibit Index:
 


Exhibit No.
 

(2.1)
Form of Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2007. 1

(3.1)
Articles of Incorporation, dated August 4, 2009. 6

(3.2)
ByLaws, dated August 4, 2009 6

(4.1)
Form of Warrant Agreement. 3

(10.1)
Consulting Agreement, dated November 12, 2008 3

(10.2)
Acquisition Agreement, dated November 12, 2008 3

(10.3)
Form of Warrant 3

(10.4)
Form of Registration Rights Agreement 3

(10.5)
First Amendment to Acquisition Agreement, dated January 12, 2009

(10.6)
Form of Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2009 4

(10.7)
Form of Security Agreement, dated as of March 19, 2009 4

(10.8)
Form of convertible Debenture, dated as of March 19, 2009. 4

(10.9)
Form of Demand Note, dated as of March 16, 2009. 4

(10.10)
Subscription Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2009, by and among the Company and the subscribers in the private placement. 7

(10.11)
Form of Class F Common Stock Purchase Warrant issued pursuant to the Subscription Agreement, dated as if June 1, 2009. 7

(10.12)
Form of Class G Common Stock Purchase Warrant issued pursuant to the Subscription Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2009. 7

(10.13)
Form of Common Stock Purchase Warrant issued to counsel. 7

(10.14)
Asset Purchase Agreement with Genaera Liquidating Trust, dated August 21, 2009 5

(10.15)

Form of Class H Common Stock Purchase Warrant issued pursuant to
        the warrant exercise agreement, dated as of January 15, 20108


(10.16)
Employment Agreement with Dr. Irach Taraporewala dated April 12, 20109

(10.17)

Employment Agreement with Mr. Sam Backenroth dated April 12, 20109


(10.18)
The 2009 Stock Incentive Plan10

(10.19)
Subscription Agreement, dated as of December 30, 2010, by and among the Company and the Investors in the private placement. 11

(10.20)
Form of Class I Common Stock Purchase Warrant issued pursuant to the Subscription Agreement, dated as of December 30, 201011

(10.21)
Form of consulting warrants12

(10.22)
Form of Warrant Agreement, dated October 31, 200613

(10.23)
Amendment No. 1 to Warrant Agreement, dated October 31, 201113

(10.24)
Form of Subscription Agreement Dated December 16, 2011 by and between the Company and the Investors in the Private Placement14

 (10.25)
Form of Class J Common Stock Purchase Warrant issued pursuant to the Subscription Agreement, dated as of December 16, 201114

(31)
Certification made pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.


(32)
 

Certification made pursuant to Section 906
        of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
 

101.INS
XBRL Instance Document

101.SCH
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document

101.CAL
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document

101.DEF
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document

101.LAB
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document

101.PRE
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document

 
 


49
Table of Contents

 
———————
1.	Filed and incorporated
by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 17, 2007.
2.	Filed and incorporated
by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on April 23, 2008.
3.	Filed and incorporated by reference
to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 12, 2008.
4.	Filed and incorporated by reference
to the Registrant’s Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on April 2, 2009.
5.	Filed and incorporated by reference
to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 26, 2009.
6.	Filed and incorporated by reference
to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 11, 2009.
7.	Filed and incorporated by reference
to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 3, 2009.
8.	Filed and incorporated
by reference to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on January 13, 2011.
9.	Filed and incorporated by
reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on April 12, 2010.
10.	Filed and incorporated by
reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 17, 2010
11.	Filed and incorporated by
reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2011
12.	Filed and incorporated by
reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on July 13, 2011
13.	Filed and incorporated by
reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 2, 2011
14.	Filed and incorporated by
reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 20, 2011

50
Table of Contents

SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.


 
 
REGISTRANT:

 
 
OHR PHARMACEUTICAL, INC.

 
 
 
 

Dated:
January 13, 2012
By:
/s/ Ira Greenstein

 
 
 
Ira Greenstein, Chairman

 
 
 
 

Dated:
January 13, 2012
By:
/s/ IRACH TARAPOREWALA

 
 
 
Irach Taraporewala, CEO

 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.


Dated:
January 13, 2012
By:
/s/ Ira Greenstein

 
 
 
Ira Greenstein, Chairman

 
 
 
 

Dated:
January 13, 2012
By:
/s/ IRACH TARAPOREWALA

 
 
 
Irach Taraporewala, CEO

 

51





