
10-K
1
d229991d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
  


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011  or   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from              to
            .  Commission File Number 000-50658
    
  Marchex, Inc. 
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 
 






Delaware
 
35-2194038

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S Employer Identification No.)
 520 Pike Street, Suite 2000, Seattle, Washington 98101 
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)  Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (206) 331-3300 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Exchange on Which Registered

 Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share
 
 The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ Global Select Market)
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None   
  Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
 










 Large accelerated filer  ¨
 

  

  
 Accelerated filer  x

 Non-accelerated filer  ¨
 
 (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  

  
 Smaller reporting company  ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $183,870,541
as of June 30, 2011 based upon the closing sale price on the NASDAQ Global Select Market reported for such date. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes. 
There were 9,570,382 shares of the registrant’s Class A common stock issued and outstanding as of March 7, 2012 and
27,594,701 shares of the registrant’s Class B common stock issued and outstanding as of March 7, 2012.  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the extent stated herein.   
   


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 










 
  
Page
 

Part I
  








 ITEM 1.
  
BUSINESS
  
 
1
  





 ITEM 1A.
  
RISK FACTORS
  
 
13
  





 ITEM 1B.
  
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
  
 
33
  





 ITEM 2.
  
PROPERTIES
  
 
34
  





 ITEM 3.
  
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
  
 
34
  





 ITEM 4.
  
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
  
 
34
  




Part II 
  








 ITEM 5.
  
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
  
 
35
  





 ITEM 6.
  
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
  
 
38
  





 ITEM 7.
  
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  
 
39
  





 ITEM 7A.
  
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
  
 
62
  





 ITEM 8.
  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
  
 
63
  





 ITEM 9.
  
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
  
 
97
  





 ITEM 9A.
  
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
  
 
97
  





 ITEM 9B.
  
OTHER INFORMATION
  
 
97
  




Part III 
  








 ITEM 10.
  
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
  
 
98
  





 ITEM 11.
  
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
  
 
98
  





 ITEM 12.
  
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
  
 
98
  





 ITEM 13.
  
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
  
 
98
  





 ITEM 14.
  
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
  
 
98
  




Part IV 
  








 ITEM 15.
  
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
  
 
99
  



Table of Contents
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We use words such as “believes”, “intends”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “may”,
“will” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Discussions containing forward-looking statements may be found in the materials set forth under “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in other sections of the report. All forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our future operating results, financial position, business strategy,
expectations regarding our growth and the growth of the industry in which we operate, and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are inherently uncertain as they are based on our expectations and assumptions concerning future
events. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this report may turn out to be inaccurate. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we
believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. They may be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the risks, uncertainties
and assumptions described in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and
circumstances discussed in this report may not occur as contemplated, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the
date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.  PART 1   


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS.  Overview 
References herein to “we”, “us” or “our” refer to Marchex, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the
context specifically states or implies otherwise.  Marchex is a leading digital call advertising and small business marketing
company. Marchex’s mission is to unlock local commerce globally by helping advertisers reach customers through the phone when they are ready to buy. Our performance-based call advertising products, Marchex Call Connect and Marchex Call
Analytics, are reinventing how businesses acquire and upsell new customers though phone calls. Our Small Business Solutions products empower businesses to efficiently acquire new customers. Every day, our products support tens of thousands of
advertisers and partners, ranging from global enterprises to small businesses.  We offer products, services and technologies
that enable advertisers of all sizes to reach consumers across mobile, online and offline sources. Our products and services primarily include: digital call-based advertising, pay-per-click advertising, and our proprietary web site traffic sources.
In addition, we provide performance marketing solutions, including private-label products for small businesses, to a network of large reseller partners including Yellow Pages publishers, media, telecommunications companies and vertical marketing
service providers (i.e. companies that sell advertising products to large numbers of small advertisers). Marchex enables these partners to sell digital call marketing and analytics, search advertising products and analytics and/or presence
management products to their end customers, which are then created, managed and fulfilled through our distribution networks including our proprietary web site traffic sources.  We generate revenue from two primary sources: our performance-based digital call advertising and our non-call driven sources including pay-per-click listings on our proprietary web site traffic sources.
During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, revenue from our proprietary web site traffic sources accounted 
  1 


Table of Contents

for approximately 34%, 27%, and 14% of total revenues, respectively. We operate primarily in domestic markets. For detail on revenue by geographical areas for the three most recent fiscal
years, see Note 1(q) “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements.  Marchex was incorporated in Delaware on January 17, 2003.  Products and Services
 We are a digital call advertising and small business marketing company. We deliver call and click-based advertising
products and services to tens of thousands of advertisers, ranging from small businesses to Fortune 500 companies. Our technology-based products and services facilitate the efficient and cost-effective marketing and selling of goods and services for
national advertisers and small businesses who want to market and sell their products through call-ready media including mobile, online and offline sources; and a proprietary, locally-focused web site network where we help consumers find local
information, as well as fulfill our advertiser marketing campaigns:   


 
•
 
 Digital Call Advertising Services. We deliver a variety of digital call advertising products and services to national advertisers,
advertising agencies and small advertiser reseller partners. These services include Marchex Call Connect, where we provide pay-for-call advertisements through the Marchex Digital Call Marketplace, and Marchex Call Analytics, which include phone
number and call tracking, call mining, keyword-level tracking, click-to-call, web site proxying, and other call-based products which enable our customers to utilize mobile, online and offline advertising to drive calls as well as clicks into their
businesses and to measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns. Advertisers pay us a fee for each call they receive from call-based ads we distribute through our sources of call distribution or for each phone number tracked based on a
pre-negotiated rate.   


 
•
 
 Small Business Solutions. Our small business solutions enable reseller partners of small business advertisers, such as Yellow Pages
providers and vertical marketing service providers, to sell digital call advertising and/or search marketing products through their existing sales channels, which are then fulfilled by us across our distribution network, including mobile sources,
leading search engines and our own proprietary web site traffic sources. By creating a solution for companies who have relationships with small businesses, it is easier for these small businesses to participate in mobile, online, offline digital
call advertising. The lead services we offer to small business advertisers through our small business solutions include products typically available only to national advertisers, including pay-for-call, call tracking, presence management, ad
creation, keyword selection, geo-targeting, advertising campaign management, reporting, and analytics. Our small business solutions have the capacity to support tens of thousands of advertiser accounts. Reseller partners and publishers generally pay
us account fees and also agency fees for our products in the form of a percentage of the cost of every call or click delivered to their advertisers. Through our contract with Yellowpages.com LLC d/b/a AT&T Interactive which is a subsidiary of
AT&T (collectively, “AT&T”), AT&T is our largest reseller partner and was responsible for 31% of our total revenues for 2011 of which the majority is derived from our small business solutions. 
 


 
•
 
 Pay-Per-Click Advertising. We deliver pay-per-click advertisements to online users in response to their keyword search queries or on
pages they visit throughout our distribution network of search engines, shopping engines, certain third party vertical and local web sites, mobile distribution and our own proprietary web site traffic sources. In addition to distributing their ads,
we offer account management services to help our advertisers optimize their pay-per-click campaigns, including editorial and keyword selection recommendations and report analysis. The pay-per-click advertisements are generally ordered based on the
amount our advertisers choose to pay for a placement and the relevancy of their ads to the keyword search. Advertisers pay us when a user clicks on their advertisements in our distribution network and we pay publishers or distribution partners a
percentage of the revenue generated by the click-throughs on their site(s). In addition, we generate 
  2 


Table of Contents


 
 
revenue from cost-per-action events that take place on our distribution network. Cost-per-action revenue occurs when the user is redirected from one of our web sites or a third party web site in
our distribution network to an advertiser’s web site and completes a specified action. We also offer a private-label platform for publishers, separate and distinct from our small business solutions which enable them to monetize their web sites
with contextual advertising from their own customers or from our advertising relationships. We sell pay-per-click contextual advertising placements on specialized vertical and branded publisher web sites on a pay-per-click basis. Advertisers can
target the placements by category, site- or page-specific basis. We believe our site- and page-specific approach provides publishers with an opportunity to generate revenue from their traffic while protecting their brand. Our approach gives
advertisers greater transparency into the source of the traffic and relevancy for their ads and enables them to optimize the return on investment from their advertising campaign. The contextual advertisement placements are generally ordered based on
the amount our advertisers choose to pay for a placement and the relevance of the advertisement, based on historic click-through rates. Advertisers pay us when a user clicks on their advertisements in our network and we pay publishers a percentage
of the revenue generated by the click-throughs on their site.   


 
•
 
 Proprietary Web Site Traffic. We believe our Proprietary Web Site Traffic is a significant source of local information online and a
source of calls within the Marchex Digital Call Marketplace. It includes more than 200,000 of our owned and operated web sites focused on helping users make informed decisions about where to get local products and services. It features listings from
more than 10 million small business listings in the U.S. and millions of expert and user-generated reviews on small businesses. The more than 200,000 web sites in our network include more than 75,000 U.S. ZIP code sites, including
98102.com and 90210.com, covering ZIP code areas nationwide, as well as tens of thousands of other locally-focused sites such as Yellow.com, OpenList.com and geo-targeted sites. Traffic to our proprietary web sites is primarily monetized with
pay-for-call and pay-per-click listings that are relevant to the web sites, as well as other forms of advertising, including banner advertising.  Our Distribution Network  We have built a broad distribution network for
our pay-for-call and pay-per-click advertising services that includes our Proprietary Web Site Traffic Sources which is comprised of our owned and operated web sites, and hundreds of other sources including mobile sources, search engines and
applications, directories, third party vertical and branded web sites, and offline sources.  Proprietary Web Site
Traffic Sources:  We believe our Proprietary Web Site Traffic is a source of local information online and is a source
of calls within the Marchex Digital Call Marketplace. It includes more than 200,000 web sites focused on helping users make informed decisions about where to get local products and services. 
The more than 200,000 owned and operated web sites in the network include more than 75,000 U.S. ZIP code sites, including 98102.com and
90210.com, covering ZIP code areas nationwide, as well as tens of thousands of other locally-focused sites such as Yellow.com, OpenList.com and geo-targeted sites. Traffic to our proprietary web sites is primarily monetized with pay-for-call and
pay-per-click listings that are relevant to the web sites, as well as other forms of advertising, including banner advertising. 
Syndicated Distribution:  Through our digital call advertising services, our small business solutions, pay-per-click advertising services, and search marketing services, we distribute advertisements from our tens of thousands of
advertisers, as well as from our reseller partners’ advertisers, through hundreds of call-ready media and traffic sources, including mobile sources, search engines and directories, web sites and our proprietary web site traffic sources.

  3 


Table of Contents
Our Syndicated Distribution partners include: 
 








 Selected Carriers
  
 Selected Search Engines
  

Selected Call Sources and Vertical and Local Distribution Partners

 AT&T
Verizon Sprint (Boost Mobile) Metro PCS
  
 Google
Microsoft Yahoo!
  
 Bankrate
BusinessWeek.com CBS/CNET CityGrid
Google Mobile Investopedia Skype
Where, Inc. Whitepages, Inc. Yahoo!
 Payment arrangements with our distribution partners are often subject to minimum payment amounts per
phone call or click-through. Other payment structures that we may use to a lesser degree include:   


 
•
 
 advance or fixed payments, based on a guaranteed minimum amount of usage delivered; 
 


 
•
 
 variable payments based on a specified metric, such as number of paid phone calls or click-throughs; and 
 


 
•
 
 a combination arrangement with both fixed and variable amounts.  Industry Overview  Today, we are witnessing an evolution in consumer
behavior as consumers are increasingly looking to the phone to research and reach out to businesses. According to Morgan Stanley’s Mobile Internet Report, mobile Internet use is predicted to outstrip desktop use by 2014. This growth in mobile
Internet use coupled with the growth of new emerging technologies, like voice-over-Internet protocols, are changing how the PC is used as a communication device, making it easy for consumers to reach businesses over the phone. As a result, in
today’s marketing environment it is critical for large and small businesses alike to adopt a variety of strategies to market to consumers wherever they are looking for goods and services. 
As businesses have expanded their marketing through mobile and online channels to meet consumer behavior, they are increasingly turning
to more measurable forms of advertising with performance-based characteristics, such as pay-for-call or pay-per-click advertising, where an advertiser is only charged when a call is completed or a consumer clicks on an ad. The shift to
performance-based advertising models has been significant as it adds transparency and measurability to advertising spending. According to the Internet Advertising Bureau, between 1999 and the first half of 2011, when large advertisers began to
embrace online advertising because of its performance-based characteristics, the performance-based pricing models, which includes pay-per-click and cost-per action, grew from 7% to 64% of online advertising while the total Internet advertising
market was $4.6 billion in 1999 and is projected to be over $30 billion for the full year 2011.  Today, performance-based
advertising products continue to grow in prominence as advertisers demand greater control, transparency and measurability from their marketing dollars. We believe that a similar shift to performance-based advertising products will be a growth driver
in the mobile advertising market. According to Berg Insight, global mobile marketing is expected to increase from $3.4 billion in 2010 to nearly $22 billion in 2016. In addition, the growth in mobile platforms also highlights the growing
demand for advertisers to connect with customers over the phone. In a 2011 study independently commissioned by Marchex and conducted by Forrester Consulting, Forrester found that 49% of advertisers view calls as the most desirable result of their
marketing dollars. Now that the technology is in place to deliver calls on a performance basis across media, we believe we will see increased adoption from advertisers. Forrester predicts call focused digital advertising will grow to $6 billion in
the U.S. by 2014. Over time we believe the convergence of technology, including mobile platforms, with the needs of advertisers for new and evolving performance advertising products like pay-for-call will warrant greater budget allocation from large
and small businesses compared to less transparent and measurable forms of advertising. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Strategy  To take advantage of the shift to performance based models in marketing, key elements of our strategy include:   


 
•
 
 Innovating on Our Digital Call Products to Deliver an Industry Leading Solution. We plan to continue to expand our range of call
based advertising product capabilities by offering innovative performance-based products like Marchex Connect, along with the supporting analytics including number provisioning, call tracking, call mining, keyword-level tracking and other
products as part of our owned end-to-end call based advertising solutions. We are also focused on growing our base of call distribution by bringing in new sources of the rapidly growing mobile advertising market as well as other online and offline
sources of distribution.   


 
•
 
 Innovating on Our Products for Small Businesses. We plan to build and integrate new products into our marketing products for small
businesses, including, (1) launching new performance-based small business solutions like pay-for-call advertising; (2) integrating more options for small businesses to acquire more customers through the phone, including enhanced local
ad-targeting capabilities that will enable us to consistently improve the matching of our small advertisers with our sources of call supply; (3) introducing products that enable small businesses to better cultivate relationships with existing
customers; and (4) adding additional features and functionality to our web sites that connect consumers with small businesses and provide additional monetization capabilities. We believe these new products will increase our cross-sell
opportunities, enable us to continue to grow our advertiser base, unlock more budget from our existing advertisers, enable us to attract new reseller partnerships and deliver better performance to our existing partners 
 


 
•
 
 Growing the Number of Advertisers Using Our Products and Services. We believe we will continue to increase the number of advertisers
using Marchex products and services and build advertiser loyalty by providing a consistently high level of service and support as well as the ability to achieve their return on investment goals. We will continue to grow our advertiser base through
our direct sales and marketing efforts, including strategic sales, inside sales, online acquisition initiatives and additional partnerships with large local advertiser reseller partners. 
 


 
•
 
 Developing New Markets. We intend to analyze opportunities and may seek to expand our technology-based products into new business areas
or geographic markets where our services can be replicated on a cost-effective basis, or where the creation or development of a product or service may be appropriate. We anticipate utilizing various strategies to enter new markets, including:
developing strategic relationships; acquiring products that address a new category or opportunity; and creating joint venture relationships and internal initiatives where existing services can be extended internationally.
  


 
•
 
 Pursuing Selective Acquisition Opportunities. We may pursue select acquisition opportunities and will apply rigorous evaluation criteria
to any acquisitions we may pursue in order to enhance our strategic position, strengthen our financial profile, augment our points of defensibility and increase shareholder value. We will focus on acquisition opportunities that represent a
combination of the following characteristics:   


 
–
under-leveraged and under-commercialized assets;   


 
–
opportunities for business model, product or service innovation and evolution; 
 


 
–
critical mass of transactions volume, advertisers, traffic, revenue and profits; 
 


 
–
business defensibility;   


 
–
revenue growth and expanding margins and operating profitability or the characteristics to achieve significant scale and profitability; and 
 


 
–
an opportunity to enhance efficiencies and provide incremental growth opportunities for our operating businesses. 
  5 


Table of Contents
We are evaluating potential strategic alternatives for certain assets including certain
pay-per-click products and web sites, with a goal of further focusing on the products and opportunities that can drive business growth. This evaluation may lead to divestures of certain products or assets.
Sales, Marketing & Business Development  Our sales department focuses on adding new advertisers to our business, while our business development and partnership department focuses on adding new reseller partnerships, selectively adding new
distribution partnerships and servicing existing partnerships. Our marketing department focuses on promoting our services through online customer acquisition, affiliate relationships, press coverage, strategic marketing campaigns and industry
exposure. Advertising and promotion of our services is broken into four main categories: direct sales, reseller partnerships, online acquisition, and referral agreements. 
 


 
•
 
 Direct Sales. Our direct sales team targets new relationships with national advertisers and advertising agencies through in-person
presentations, direct marketing, telesales and attendance at industry events, among other methods. Our advertiser agreements include a combination of agency fees, per-call and per-click fees. 
 


 
•
 
 Reseller Partnerships. We have a business development team that focuses primarily on securing partnerships with large local advertiser
reseller partners under which we supply our private-label small business advertising platform and/or other services, including advertiser distribution in our proprietary web site traffic network or our distribution network. Our reseller partner
agreements include a combination of revenue sharing, licensing revenue, per-call and per-click fees.   


 
•
 
 Online Acquisition. We market to advertisers for our proprietary web site traffic network, pay-per-click advertising and contextual
advertising through certain online advertising and direct marketing campaigns that lead advertisers to our self-serve online sign up processes. Self-serve advertisers generally pay us per-click fees. 
 


 
•
 
 Referral Agreements. We have referral agreements with entities that promote our services to large numbers of potential advertisers. Our
referral partner agreements are based on a combination of revenue sharing and performance-based fees.  We
intend to continue our strategy of growing our advertiser base through sales and marketing programs while being as efficient as possible in terms of our marketing and advertising costs. We continually evaluate our marketing and advertising
strategies to maximize the effectiveness of our programs and their return on investment.  Information Technology and Systems
 We have a proprietary technology platform for the purposes of managing and delivering call and click-based advertising
products and services to our partners. We also combine third party licenses and hardware to create an operating environment for delivering high quality products and services, with such features as automated online account creation and
management process for advertisers, real-time customer support and interactive reporting for customers and partners. We employ commercially available technologies and products distributed by various companies, including Cisco, Dell, Oracle, Intel,
Microsoft, IBM, Nuance and Veritas. We also utilize public domain software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, Java and Tomcat.  Our
technology platform is compatible with the systems used by our distribution partners, enabling us to deliver call and click-based advertising products and services through mobile, online and offline sources in rapid response to user queries made
through such partners at scale. We continue to build and innovate additional functionality to attempt to meet the quickly evolving demands of the marketplace. We devote significant financial and human resources to improving our advertiser and
partner experiences by continuing to develop our technology infrastructure. The cost of developing our technology solutions is included in the overall cost 
  6 


Table of Contents

structure of our services and is not separately funded by any individual advertisers or partners. In order to maintain a professional level of service and availability, we primarily rely upon
third parties to provide hosting services, including hardware support and service, and network monitoring at various domestic and international locations. Our servers are configured for high availability and large volumes of call, mobile and
Internet traffic and are located in leased third party facilities. Back-end databases make use of redundant servers and data storage arrays. We also have standby servers that provide for additional capacity as necessary. The facilities housing our
servers provide redundant HVAC, power and internet connectivity. As revenue grows and the volume of transactions and call, mobile and internet traffic increases, we will need to expand our network infrastructure. Inefficiencies in our network
infrastructure to scale and adapt to higher call, mobile and internet traffic volumes could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.  We continuously review ways to improve major aspects of our technology support and maintenance, including improving, upgrading and implementing business continuity plans, data retention initiatives, and
backup and recovery processes.  Competition  We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies, including Google, IAC/InterActiveCorp, Microsoft, Yahoo!, Yext! and ReachLocal. Many of our potential competitors, as well as potential
entrants into our target markets, have longer operating histories, larger customer or user bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Many current and potential competitors can devote
substantially greater resources than we can to marketing, web site and systems development. In addition, as the use of the Internet, mobile, and other online services increases, there will likely be larger, more well-established and well-financed
entities that acquire companies relevant to our business strategy; and invest in or form joint ventures in categories or countries relevant to our business strategy; all of which could adversely impact our business. Any of these trends could
increase competition, reduce the demand for any of our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  We believe our strategy allows us to work with most, if not all, of the relevant companies in our industry, even those companies that may be perceived as our competitors. To some extent, we may compete
with our business partners, as we do with all other types of advertising sales companies and agencies. We may also compete with traditional offline media such as television, radio and print and direct marketing companies, for a share of
advertisers’ total advertising budgets. Although our strategy enables us to work with most, if not all, of our competitors, there are no guarantees that all companies will view us as a potential partner. 
We provide our services to and also may compete with: (1) online and mobile advertisers; (2) partners who provide a
distribution network for mobile, online, and offline advertising; and (3) other intermediaries who may provide purchasing and/or sales opportunities, including advertising agencies, and other search engine marketing companies. Many of the
companies that could fall into these categories are also our partners, including Google, Yahoo!, Citysearch, Microsoft and Ingenio. We depend on maintaining and continually expanding our network of partners and advertisers to generate online and
mobile transactions.  The online and mobile advertising and marketing services industry is highly competitive. In addition, we
believe today’s typical Internet and mobile advertiser is becoming more sophisticated in utilizing the different forms of Internet and mobile advertising, purchasing Internet and mobile advertising in a cost-effective manner, and measuring
return on investment. The competition for this pool of advertising dollars has also put downward pressure on pricing points and online and mobile advertisers have demanded more effective means of reaching customers. We believe these factors have
contributed to the growth in performance-based advertising relative to certain other forms of online advertising and marketing, and as a result this sector has attracted many competitors. 
Due to the long-term growth trends in online and mobile advertising, these competitors, real and potential, range in size and focus. Our
competitors may include such diverse participants as small referral companies, established advertising agencies, inventory resellers, search engines, and destination web sites. We are also 
  7 


Table of Contents

affected by the competition among destination web sites that reach users or customers of search services. While thousands of smaller outlets are available to customers, several large media and
search engine companies, such as Google, Yahoo!, Microsoft and AOL, dominate online user traffic. The online search industry continues to experience consolidation of major web sites and search engines, which has the effect of increasing the
negotiating power of these parties in relation to smaller providers. The major destination web sites and distribution providers may have leverage to demand more favorable contract terms, such as pricing, renewal and termination provisions.
 There are additional competitive factors relating to attracting and retaining users, those include the quality and relevance
of our search results, and the usefulness, accessibility, integration and personalization of the online and mobile services that we offer as well as the overall user experience on our web sites. The competitive factors that we offer, which we
believe attract advertisers are reach, effectiveness and creativity of marketing services and offered tools and information to help track performance.  Other competitive factors relating to our product roadmap include the relatively nascent markets around call-based advertising and products like presence management which are innovative and new markets.
The adoption of these products could take longer than we expect and could become more competitive as the categories become more developed and visible.  Seasonality  We have and we believe we will continue to experience
seasonality. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to seasonal fluctuations in levels of mobile and Internet usage and seasonal purchasing cycles of many advertisers. It is generally understood that
during the spring and summer months, mobile and Internet usage is lower than during other times of the year, especially in comparison to the fourth quarter of the calendar year. The extent to which usage may decrease during these off-peak periods is
difficult to predict. Prolonged or severe decreases in usage during these periods may adversely affect our growth rate and results. Additionally, the current business environment has resulted in many advertisers and reseller partners reducing
advertising and marketing services budgets or changing such budgets throughout the year, which we expect will impact our quarterly results of operations in addition to the typical seasonality seen in our industry. 
Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights  We seek to protect our intellectual property through existing laws and regulations and by contractual restrictions. We rely upon trademark, patent and copyright law, trade secret protection and
confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to help us protect our intellectual property.  Our technologies involve a combination of proprietary rights, owned and developed by us, commercially available software and hardware elements that are licensed or purchased by us from various providers,
including Cisco, Dell, Oracle, Intel, Microsoft, IBM and Veritas, and public domain software, such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, IBM Java and Tomcat. We continue to develop additional technologies to update, supplement and replace existing components of
the platform. We intend to protect our proprietary rights through patent and additional intellectual property laws.  Our
policy is to apply for patents or for other appropriate intellectual property protection when we develop valuable new or improved technology. We currently own the following pending patent applications and issued patents: 
 


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 7,668,950 entitled “Automatically Updating Performance-Based Online Advertising System and Method” was issued
February 23, 2010.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/985,188 entitled “Method and System for Tracking Telephone Calls” was filed on
November 14, 2007 and a corresponding divisional Patent Application Number 13/294,436 was filed November 11, 2011.
  8 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 6,822,663 entitled “Transform Rule Generator for Web-Based Markup Languages” was issued November 23, 2004.
  


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/512,821 entitled “Facility for Reconciliation of Business Records Using Genetic Algorithms”
was filed on July 30, 2009.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/829,372 entitled “System and Method to Direct Telephone Calls to Advertisers” and U.S.
Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/829,373 entitled System and Method for Calling Advertised Telephone Numbers on a Computing Device” and U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/829,375 entitled System and Method to Analyze
Calls to Advertised Telephone Numbers were all filed on July 1, 2010. U.S. Respective corresponding PCT Application Numbers PCT/US11/42792, PCT/US11/42812 and PCT/US11/42819 were filed July 1, 2011. 
 


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/844,488 entitled “Systems and Methods for Blocking Telephone Calls” was filed on
July 27, 2010 and corresponding PCT Application Number PCT/US11/45403 was filed July 26, 2011.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 7,212,615 entitled “Criteria Based Marketing For Telephone Directory Assistance” was issued May 1, 2007 owned by
Jingle Networks, Inc. (“Jingle”) which we acquired in 2011.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 7,702,084 entitled “Toll-Free Directory Assistance With Preferred Advertisement Listing” was issued April 20, 2010.
  


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 7,961,861 entitled “Telephone Search Supported By Response Location Advertising” was issued June 14, 2011 and
corresponding European Application Number 5826299.99 was filed November 29, 2005.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/290,148 entitled “Telephone Search Supported By Advertising Based On Past History Of
Requests” was filed November 29, 2005.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/291,094 entitled “Telephone Search Supported By Keyword Map To Advertising” was filed
November 29, 2005.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/728,189 entitled “Toll-Free Directory Assistance With Automatic Selection Of An Advertisement
From A Category” was filed March 23, 2007.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/897,262 entitled “Directory Assistance With Data Processing Station” was filed
August 29, 2007.  The status of any patent involves complex legal and factual questions. The scope of
allowable claims is often uncertain. As a result, we cannot be sure that: (1) any patent application filed by us will result in a patent being issued; (2) that any patents issued in the future will afford adequate protection against
competitors with similar technology; and (3) that the patents issued to us, if any, will not be infringed upon or designed around by others. Furthermore, the performance-based search advertising industry has been the subject of numerous patents
and patent applications, which in turn has resulted in litigation. The outcome of this ongoing litigation or any future claims in this sector may adversely affect our business or financial prospects. 
We have registered trademarks in the United States for “Marchex,” “Adhere By Marchex,” “DPG,” “Form to
Phone,” “Local is the New Black,” “Marchex and Design” “OpenList,” “Opportunity doesn’t Knock… it Calls!,” “goClick.com,” “Sitewise,” “Enhance Interactive,”
“Marchex Adhere,” “Marchex Voice Services,” “VoiceStar” and the “Marchex Adhere” logo. We also own pending U.S. trademark applications for “We Make The Phone Ring” and “Mine”. In addition,
we have registered trademarks for “Marchex” in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the European Union, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation and Taiwan. We have also applied for registration of “Marchex” in
a number of other foreign jurisdictions. We do not know whether we will be able to successfully defend our proprietary rights since the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related industries are
uncertain and still evolving. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Regulation  The manner in which existing laws and regulations should be applied to the Internet and call-based advertising services in general, and how they relate to our businesses in particular, is unclear. A host
of federal and state laws covering user privacy, defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation, gambling, sweepstakes, promotions, financial market regulation, quality of products and services, computer trespass, telemarketing, spyware, adware, child
protection and intellectual property ownership and infringement are potentially applicable to our business practices and the content offered by our mobile and online distribution partners. 
In addition, our business is impacted by laws in a constant state of flux, and new legislation is introduced on a regular basis. Any such
new legislation could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations. Courts may apply each of these laws in unintended and unexpected ways. As a company that provides services
over the Internet as well as call recording and call tracking services, we may be subject to an action brought under any of these or future laws.  Several federal and state laws that could have an impact on our business practices and compliance costs have already been adopted: 
 


 
•
 
 The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides protection from copyright liability for online service providers that list or link to third party
web sites. We currently qualify for the safe harbor under the DMCA; however, if it were determined that we did not meet the safe harbor requirements, we could be exposed to copyright infringement litigation, which could be costly and time-consuming.
  


 
•
 
 The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) restricts the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose
limitations on web sites’ ability to collect personal information from minors. COPPA allows the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to impose fines and penalties upon web site operators whose sites do not fully comply with the law’s
requirements. We do not currently offer any web sites “directed to children,” nor do we collect personal information from children.   


 
•
 
 The Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography
laws under certain circumstances.   


 
•
 
 The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing (CAN-SPAM) Act of 2003 establishes requirements for those who send commercial
e-mails, spells out penalties for entities that transmit noncompliant commercial e-mail and/or whose products are advertised in noncompliant commercial e-mail and gives consumers the right to opt-out of receiving commercial e-mails. The majority of
the states also have adopted similar statutes governing the transmission of commercial e-mail. The FTC and the states, as applicable, are authorized to enforce the CAN-SPAM Act and the state-specific statutes, respectively. CAN-SPAM gives the
Department of Justice the authority to enforce its criminal sanctions. Other federal and state agencies can enforce the law against organizations under their jurisdiction, and companies that provide Internet access may sue violators as well.
  


 
•
 
 The Electronic Communications Privacy Act prevents private entities from disclosing Internet subscriber records and the contents of electronic
communications, subject to certain exceptions.   


 
•
 
 The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and other federal and state laws protect computer users from unauthorized computer access/hacking, and other actions
by third parties which may be viewed as a violation of privacy. Courts may apply each of these laws in unintended and unexpected ways. As a company that provides services over the Internet as well as call recording and call tracking services, we may
be subject to an action brought under any of these or future laws.   


 
•
 
 Among the types of legislation currently being considered at the federal and state levels are consumer laws regulating for the use of certain types of
software applications or downloads and the use of “cookies.” These proposed laws are intended to target specific types of software applications often referred to as “spyware,” “invasiveware” or “adware,” and
may also cover certain applications currently 
  10 


Table of Contents


 
 
used in the online advertising industry to serve and distribute advertisements. In addition, the FTC has sought inquiry regarding the implementation of a “do-not-track” requirement.
Federal legislation is also expected to be introduced that would regulate “online behavioral advertising” practices. If passed, these laws would impose new obligations for companies that use such software applications or technologies.
  


 
•
 
 The Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the “Act”), and the regulations promulgated by the Federal
Communications Commission under Title II of the Act, may impose federal licensing, reporting and other regulatory obligations on the Company. To the extent we contract with and use the networks of voice over IP service providers, new
legislation or FCC regulation in this area could restrict our business, prevent us from offering service or increase our cost of doing business. There are an increasing number of regulations and rulings that specifically address access to
commerce and communications services on the Internet, including IP telephony. We are unable to predict the impact, if any that future legislation, legal decisions or regulations concerning voice services offered via the Internet may have on our
business, financial condition, and results of operations.   


 
•
 
 The U.S. Congress, the FCC, state legislatures or state agencies may target, among other things, access or settlement charges, imposing taxes related
to Internet communications, imposing tariffs or other regulations based on encryption concerns, or the characteristics and quality of products and services that we may offer. Any new laws or regulations concerning these or other areas of our
business could restrict our growth or increase our cost of doing business.   


 
•
 
 The FCC has initiated a proceeding regarding the regulation of broadband services. The increasing growth of the broadband IP telephony market and
popularity of broadband IP telephony products and services heighten the risk that the FCC or other legislative bodies will seek to regulate broadband IP telephony and the Internet. In addition, large, established telecommunication companies may
devote substantial lobbying efforts to influence the regulation of the broadband IP telephony market, which may be contrary to our interests.   


 
•
 
 There is risk that a regulatory agency will require us to conform to rules that are unsuitable for IP communications technologies or rules that cannot
be complied with due to the nature and efficiencies of IP routing, or are unnecessary or unreasonable in light of the manner in which we offer voice-related services such as call recording and pay-for-call services to our customers.
  


 
•
 
 Federal and state telemarketing laws including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Telemarketing Consumer Fraud
and Abuse Prevention Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.   


 
•
 
 Laws affecting telephone call recording and data protection, such as consent and personal data statutes. Under the federal Wiretap Act, at least one
party taking part in a call must be notified if the call is being recorded. Under this law, and most state laws, there is nothing illegal about one of the parties to a telephone call recording the conversation. However, several states (i.e.,
California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Washington) require that all parties consent when one party wants to record a telephone conversation. The telephone
recording laws in other states, like federal law, require only one party to be aware of the recording.   


 
•
 
 The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act may require that the Company undertake material modifications to its platforms and processes to
permit wiretapping and other access for law enforcement personnel.   


 
•
 
 Under various Orders of the Federal Communications Commission, including its Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in Docket
Number WC 04-36, dated June 27, 2006, the Company may be required to make material retroactive and prospective contributions to funds intended to support Universal Service, Telecommunications Relay Service, Local Number Portability, the North
American Numbering Plan and the budget of the Federal Communications Commission. 
  11 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Laws in most states of the United States of America may require registration or licensing of one or more subsidiaries of the Company, and may impose
additional taxes, fees or telecommunications surcharges on the provision of the Company’s services which the Company may not be able to pass through to customers. 
In addition, there are a large number of federal and state legislative proposals related to our business. It is not possible to predict
whether, or when, such legislation might be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could result in a decrease in user registrations and revenue.  We comply with existing law and intend to fully comply with all future laws and regulations that may govern our industry. We have dedicated internal resources and hired outside professionals who regularly
establish, review and maintain policies and procedures to reduce the risk of noncompliance. Nevertheless, these laws may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liability, if we failed to fully comply, even if
such failure was unintentional.  The acquisition of Internet domain names generally is governed by Internet regulatory bodies,
predominantly the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). The regulation of Internet domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. ICANN and other regulatory bodies could establish additional
requirements for previously owned Internet domain names or modify the requirements for Internet domain names.  Compliance with
complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could interfere with our ability to offer our products and services to one or more
countries or expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. Our continued international expansion also subjects us to increased foreign currency exchange rate risks and will require additional management attention and resources. We cannot assure
you that we will be successful in our international expansion.  We post a privacy policy which describes our practices
concerning the use and disclosure of any user data collected or submitted via our web sites. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, Federal Trade Commission requirements or other federal, state or international privacy or
direct marketing laws and regulations could result in governmental or regulatory investigations that could potentially harm our businesses, operational results and overall financial condition. 
Employees  As of
December 31, 2011, we employed a total of 350 full-time employees. We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our employee relationships to be positive. If we were unable to retain
our key employees or we were unable to maintain adequate staffing of qualified employees, particularly during peak sales seasons, our business would be adversely affected.  Web site  Our web site, www.marchex.com, provides access, without
charge, to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. To view these filings, please go to our web site and click on “Investor Relations” and then click on “SEC Filings.” 
  12 


Table of Contents


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  An
investment in our Class B common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our other periodic filings with the SEC. Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the
other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our stock. There may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the value of our stock.  Risks Relating to Our
Company  We have largely incurred net losses since our inception, and we may incur net losses in the foreseeable future. 
We had an accumulated deficit of $137.8 million as of December 31, 2011. Our net expenses may increase based on the initiatives we
undertake which for instance, may include increasing our sales and marketing activities, hiring additional personnel, incurring additional costs as a result of being a public company, acquiring additional businesses and making additional equity
grants to our employees.  We are dependent on certain distribution partners, for distribution of our services, and we derive a significant
portion of our total revenue through these distribution partners. A loss of distribution partners or a decrease in revenue from certain distribution partners could adversely affect our business. 
A relatively small number of distribution partners currently deliver a significant percentage of calls and traffic to our advertisers,
although no one distribution partner accounts for in excess of 10% of our revenues.  Our existing agreements with many of our
other larger distribution partners permit either company to terminate without penalty on short notice and are primarily structured on a variable-payment basis, under which we make payments based on a specified percentage of revenue or based on the
number of paid phone calls or click-throughs. We intend to continue devoting resources in support of our larger distribution partners, but there are no guarantees that these relationships will remain in place over the short- or long-term. In
addition, we cannot be assured that any of these distribution partners will continue to generate current levels of revenue for us or that we will be able to maintain the applicable variable payment terms at their current levels. A loss of any of
these distribution partners or a decrease in revenue due to lower calls and traffic or less favorable variable payment terms from any one of these distribution relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.  Companies distributing advertising through mobile or online Internet have experienced, and will
likely continue to experience, consolidation. This consolidation has reduced the number of partners that control the mobile and online advertising outlets with the most user calls and traffic. According to the comScore Media Metrix Core Search
Report for December 2011, Yahoo! and Microsoft accounted for 14.5% and 15.1%, respectively, of the online searches in the United States and Google accounted for 65.9%. As a result, the larger distribution partners have greater control over
determining the market terms of distribution, including placement of call and click-based advertisements and cost of placement. In addition, many participants in the performance-based advertising and search marketing industries control significant
portions of mobile and online traffic that they deliver to advertisers. We do not believe, for example, that Yahoo! and Google are as reliant as we are on a third party distribution network to deliver their services. This gives these companies a
significant advantage over us in delivering their services, and with a lesser degree of risk. 
  13 


Table of Contents
We rely on certain advertiser reseller partners and agencies, including AT&T (through our contract
with AT&T’s subsidiary Yellowpages.com LLC d/b/a AT&T Interactive), Yellowbook USA Inc., The Cobalt Group, Super Media, Inc., Yodle and Yellow Media, Inc for the purchase of various advertising and marketing services, as well as to
provide us with a large number of advertisers. A loss of certain advertiser reseller partners and agencies or a decrease in revenue from these reseller partners could adversely affect our business. Such advertisers are subject to varying terms and
conditions which may result in claims or credit risks to us.  We benefit from the established relationships and national
sales teams that certain of our reseller partners, who are leading reseller partners of advertisers and advertising agencies, have in place throughout the U.S. and international markets. These advertiser reseller partners and agencies refer or bring
advertisers to us for the purchase of various advertising products and services. We derive a sizeable portion of our total revenue through these advertiser reseller partners and agencies. A loss of certain advertiser reseller partners and agencies
or a decrease in revenue from these clients could adversely affect our business. AT&T is our largest advertiser reseller partner and was responsible for 31% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
These advertisers may in certain cases be subject to negotiated terms and conditions separate from those applied to online clients
accepted and processed through our automated advertiser management platform. In some cases, the applicable contract terms may be the result of legacy or industry association documentation or simply customized advertising solutions for large reseller
partners and agencies. In any case, as a consequence of such varying terms and conditions, we may be subject to claims or credit risks that we may otherwise mitigate more efficiently across our automated advertiser management platform. 
These claims and risks may vary depending on the nature of the aggregated client base. Among other claims, we may be subject to disputes
based on third party tracking information or analysis. We may also be subject to differing credit profiles and risks based on the agency relationship associated with these advertisers. For such advertisers, payment may be made on an invoice basis,
unlike our retail platform which in many instances is paid in advance of the service. In some limited circumstances we may also have accepted individual advertiser payment liability in place of liability of the advertising agency or media advisor.
 We received approximately 48% and 50% of our revenue from our five largest customers for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011,
respectively, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.  Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 48% and 50% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. AT&T is our largest customer and was
responsible for 31% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 37% of accounts receivable at December 31, 2011. Certain of these customers are not subject to long term contracts with us and are generally able to reduce
advertising spending at any time and for any reason. A significant reduction in advertising spending by our largest customers, or the loss of one or more of these customers, if not replaced by new customers or an increase in business from existing
customers, would adversely affect revenues. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 
Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on
our business.  Our large customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements
with us. These customers may seek for us to develop additional features, may require penalties for failure to deliver such features, may seek discounted product or service pricing and may seek more favorable contractual terms. As we sell more
products and services to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions. Such large customers also have substantial leverage in negotiating resolution of any disagreements or disputes than may arise. Any of the
foregoing factors could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  14 


Table of Contents
If some of our customers experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could
negatively affect our own financial position and results.  We have a diverse customer base and, at any given time, one or
more customers may experience financial distress, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. If a customer with whom we do a substantial amount of business experiences financial difficulty, it could delay or jeopardize the collection of
accounts receivable, result in significant reductions in services provided by us and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.  We may incur liabilities for the activities of our advertisers, reseller partners, distribution partners and other users of our services, which could adversely affect our business. 
Many of our advertisement generation and distribution processes are automated. In some cases, advertisers or reseller partners use our
online tools and account management systems to create and submit advertiser listings and in other cases we create and submit advertising listing on behalf of our advertisers or reseller partners. These advertiser listings are submitted in a bulk
data feed or through the distribution partners’ user interface. Although we monitor our distribution partners on an ongoing basis primarily for traffic quality, these partners control the distribution of the advertiser listings provided in the
data feed or user interface submissions.  We have a large number of distribution partners who display our advertiser listings
on their networks. Our advertiser listings are delivered to our distribution partners in an automated fashion through an XML data feed or data dump or through the distribution partners’ user interface. Our distribution partners are
contractually required to use the listings created by our advertiser customers in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and in conformity with the publication restrictions in our agreements, which are intended to promote the quality and
validity of the traffic provided to our advertisers. Nonetheless, we do not operationally control or manage these distribution partners and any breach of these agreements on the part of any distribution partner or its affiliates could result in
liability for our business. These agreements include indemnification obligations on the part of our distribution partners, but there is no guarantee that we would be able to collect against offending distribution partners or their affiliates in the
event of a claim under these indemnification provisions. Alternatively, we may incur substantial costs as part of our indemnification obligations to distribution partners for liability they may incur as a result of displaying content we have
provided them.  We do not conduct a manual editorial review of a substantial number of the advertiser listings directly
submitted by advertisers or reseller partners online, nor do we manually review the display of the vast majority of the advertiser listings by our distribution partners submitted to us by XML data feeds or data dumps or the distribution
partners’ user interface. Likewise, in cases where we provide editorial or value-added services for our large reseller partners or agencies, such as ad creation and optimization for local advertisers or landing pages and micro-sites for
pay-for-call customers, we rely on the content and information provided to us by these agents on behalf of their individual advertisers. We do not investigate the individual business activities of these advertisers other than the information
provided to us or in some cases review of advertiser web sites. We may not successfully avoid liability for unlawful activities carried out by our advertisers or reseller partners and other users of our services or unpermitted uses of our advertiser
listings by distribution partners and their affiliates.  Our potential liability for unlawful activities of our advertisers
and other users of our services or unpermitted uses of our advertiser listings and advertising services and platform by distribution partners and reseller partners and agencies could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such
liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources, to discontinue certain service offerings or to terminate certain distribution partner relationships. For example, as a result of the actions of advertisers in our
network, we may be subject to private or governmental actions relating to a wide variety of issues, such as privacy, gambling, promotions, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. Under agreements with certain of our larger distribution
partners, we may be required to indemnify these distribution partners against liabilities or losses resulting from the content of our advertiser listings, or resulting from third party intellectual property infringement claims. Although our
advertisers agree to indemnify us with respect to claims arising from these listings, we may not be able to recover all or any of the liabilities or losses incurred by us as a result of the activities of our advertisers. 
  15 


Table of Contents
Our insurance policies may not provide coverage for liability arising out of activities of
users of our services. In addition, our reliance on some content and information provided to us by our large advertiser reseller partners and agencies may expose us to liability not covered by our insurance policies. Furthermore, we may not be able
to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage to reduce or limit the liabilities associated with our businesses. Any costs incurred as a result of such liability or asserted liability could have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results and financial condition.  If we do not maintain and grow a critical mass of advertisers and distribution partners, the
value of our services could be adversely affected.  Our success depends, in large part, on the maintenance and growth of a
critical mass of advertisers and distribution partners and a continued interest in our pay-for-call, performance-based advertising, telemarketing analytics and search marketing services. Advertisers will generally seek the most competitive return on
investment from advertising and marketing services. Distribution partners will also seek the most favorable payment terms available in the market. Advertisers and distribution partners may change providers or the volume of business with a provider,
unless the product and terms are competitive. In this environment, we must compete to acquire and maintain our network of advertisers and distribution partners. If our business is unable to maintain and grow our base of advertisers, our current
distribution partners may be discouraged from continuing to work with us, and this may create obstacles for us to enter into agreements with new distribution partners. Our business also in part depends on certain of our large reseller partners and
agencies to grow their base of advertisers as these advertisers become increasingly important to our business and our ability to attract additional distribution partners and opportunities. Similarly, if our distribution network does not grow and
does not continue to improve over time, current and prospective advertisers and reseller partners and agencies may reduce or terminate this portion of their business with us. Any decline in the number of advertisers and distribution partners could
adversely affect the value of our services.  The mobile advertising market may develop more slowly than expected, which could harm our
business.  If the market for mobile marketing and advertising develops more slowly than we expect, our business could
suffer. Our future success is highly dependent on the commitment of advertisers and marketers to mobile communications as an advertising and marketing medium, the willingness of our potential advertisers to outsource their mobile advertising and
marketing needs, and our ability to sell our mobile advertising services to reseller partners and agencies. The mobile advertising and marketing market is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Businesses, including current and potential advertisers,
may find mobile advertising or marketing to be less effective than traditional advertising media or marketing methods or other technologies for promoting their products and services. As a result, the future demand and market acceptance for mobile
marketing and advertising is uncertain. Many of our current or potential advertisers have little or no experience using mobile communications for advertising or marketing purposes and have allocated only a limited portion of their advertising or
marketing budgets to mobile communications advertising or marketing, and there is no certainty that they will allocate more funds in the future, if any.  We are dependent upon the quality of mobile, online, offline and other traffic sources in our network to provide value to our advertisers and the advertisers of our reseller partners, and any failure
in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our services to our advertisers and adversely affect our revenues.  We utilize certain monitoring processes with respect to the quality of the mobile, online, offline and other traffic sources that we deliver to our advertisers. Among the factors we seek to monitor are
sources and causes of low quality phone calls such as unwanted telemarketer calls and clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software, the mechanical automation of clicking, and other types of invalid clicks, click
fraud, or click spam, the purpose of which is something other than to view the underlying content. Additionally, we also seek to identify other indicators which may suggest that a user may not be targeted by or desirable to our

  16 


Table of Contents

advertisers. Even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low quality mobile, online, offline and other traffic or traffic that is deemed to be less valuable by
our advertisers will be delivered to such advertisers, which may be detrimental to those relationships. We have regularly refunded fees that our advertisers had paid to us which were attributed to low quality mobile, online, offline and other
traffic. If we are unable to stop or reduce low quality Internet traffic and low quality phone calls, these refunds may increase. Low quality mobile, online, offline and other traffic may further prevent us from growing our base of advertisers and
cause us to lose relationships with existing advertisers, or become the target of litigation, both of which would adversely affect our revenues.  We depend on being able to secure enough phone numbers to support our advertisers and other users of our services and any obstacles that we face which prevent us from meeting this demand could
adversely affect our business.  We utilize phone numbers as part of a number of information and analytic services to
advertisers, such as our pay-for-call, call tracking and call analytics services. Our services that utilize phone numbers are designed to enable advertisers and other users of our services to utilize mobile, online and offline advertising and to
help measure the effectiveness of mobile, online and offline advertising campaigns. We secure a majority of our phone numbers through telecommunication carriers that we have contracted with and a smaller number through the 800 Service Management
System, and such telecommunication carriers provide the underlying telephone service. Our telecommunications carriers and telephone number acquisition process are subject to the rules and guidelines established by the Federal Communications
Commission. Furthermore, to the extent we offer call recording and pay-for-call services, we may be directly subject to certain telecommunications-related regulations. The Federal Communications Commission and our telecommunication carriers may
change the rules and guidelines for securing phone numbers or change the requirements for retaining the phone numbers we have already secured. As a result, we may not be able to secure or retain sufficient phone numbers needed for our services. We
may also be limited in the number of available telecommunications carriers or vendors to provide such phone numbers to us in the event of any industry consolidations.  Our acquisition of certain automated voice and mobile advertising-based technologies is heavily reliant on vendors.  Certain voice and mobile advertising-based products that we acquired as part of our acquisition of Jingle are heavily reliant on vendors. The free directory product that we provide relies on technology
provided by third party vendors that include voice recognition software and business, government and residence data listings. We cannot guarantee that the technology, data and services provided by our third party vendors will be of sufficient
quality to meet the demands of our customers and partners. Further, we cannot guarantee that the technologies, data and services will be available to us in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Any perception by our customers or partners that
our voice and mobile advertising-based products are incomplete or not of sufficient quality could lead to a loss in confidence by our customers or partners, which in turn could lead to a decline in revenues. If we are unable to continue maintaining,
advancing and improving our voice and mobile advertising-based products, our operating results may be adversely affected.  We may be
subject to intellectual property claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to use certain critical technologies, divert our resources and management attention from our business operations and create uncertainty about
ownership of technology essential to our business.  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to operate without
infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. There can be no guarantee that any of our intellectual property will not be challenged by third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims or other intellectual property
infringement claims, including claims of trademark infringement in connection with our acquisition of previously-owned Internet domain names and claims of copyright infringement with respect to certain of our proprietary web sites that would be
costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies. 
  17 


Table of Contents
The expansion of our call advertising business increases the potential intellectual property
infringement claims we may be subject to, particularly in light of the large number of patents which have been issued (or are pending) in the telecommunications field over the last several decades, both in the U.S. and internationally. Jingle, which
we acquired in 2011, was subject to patent infringement claims which were unsuccessful at trial. We recently resolved this matter and obtained a license to the patents at issue. 
Any patent or other intellectual property litigation could negatively impact our business by diverting resources and management attention
from other aspects of the business and adding uncertainty as to the ownership of technology, services and property that we view as proprietary and essential to our business. In addition, a successful claim of patent infringement against us and our
failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms, or at all, could prevent us from using critical technologies which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
We may need additional funding to meet our obligations and to pursue our business strategy. Additional funding may not be available to us and our
financial condition could therefore be adversely affected.  We may require additional funding to meet our ongoing
obligations and to pursue our business strategy, which may include the selective acquisition of businesses and technologies. In addition, we have incurred and we may incur certain obligations in the future. There can be no assurance that if we were
to need additional funds to meet these obligations that additional financing arrangements would be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Furthermore, if adequate additional funds are not available, we will be required to
delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of the implementation of our business strategy, including potential additional acquisitions or internally-developed businesses.  Our acquisitions could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, cause our earnings to decrease and be difficult to integrate. 
Our business strategy includes identifying, structuring, completing and integrating acquisitions. Acquisitions in the technology and
Internet sectors involve a high degree of risk. We may also be unable to find a sufficient number of attractive opportunities to meet our objectives which include revenue growth, profitability and competitive market share. Our acquired companies may
have histories of net losses and may expect net losses for the foreseeable future. Acquisitions are accompanied by a number of risks that could harm our business, operating results and financial condition: 
 


 
•
 
 We could experience a substantial strain on our resources, including time and money, and we may not be successful; 
 


 
•
 
 Our management’s attention could be diverted from our ongoing business concerns; 
 


 
•
 
 While integrating new companies, we may lose key executives or other employees of these companies; 
 


 
•
 
 We may issue shares of our Class B common stock as consideration for acquisitions which may result in ownership dilution to our stockholders;
  


 
•
 
 We could fail to successfully integrate our financial and management controls, technology, reporting systems and procedures, or adequately expand,
train and manage our workforce;   


 
•
 
 We could experience customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired company or technology; 
 


 
•
 
 We could become subject to unknown or underestimated liabilities of an acquired entity or incur unexpected expenses or losses from such acquisitions;

  18 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 We could incur possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which
could harm our business; and   


 
•
 
 We may be exposed to investigations and/or audits by federal, state or other taxing authorities. 
Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve
anticipated revenue and cost benefits.  Our expanding international operations subject us to additional risks and uncertainties and we may
not be successful with our strategy to continue to expand such operations.  One potential area of growth for us is in
international markets. We have initiated operations, through our subsidiaries, in Ireland and the United Kingdom. Our international expansion and the integration of international operations present unique challenges and risks. Compliance with
complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could interfere with our ability to offer our products and services to one or more
countries or expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. Our continued international expansion also subjects us to increased foreign currency exchange rate risks and will require additional management attention and resources. We cannot assure
you that we will be successful in our international expansion. There are risks inherent in conducting business in international markets, including the need to localize our products and services to foreign customers’ preferences and customs,
difficulties in managing operations due to language barriers, distance, staffing and cultural differences, application of foreign laws and regulations to us, tariffs and other trade barriers, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, establishing
management systems and infrastructures, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in foreign political and economic conditions, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Our failure to address these risks
adequately could materially and adversely affect our business, revenue, results of operations and financial condition.  The loss of our
senior management, including our founders, could harm our current and future operations and prospects.  We are heavily
dependent upon the continued services of Russell C. Horowitz, our chairman and chief executive officer, and the other members of our senior management team. Each member of our senior management team is an at-will employee and may voluntarily
terminate his employment with us at any time with minimal notice. Following any termination of employment, each of these employees would only be subject to a twelve-month non-competition and non-solicitation obligation with respect to our customers
and employees under our standard confidentiality agreement.  Further, as of December 31, 2011, Russell C. Horowitz, Ethan
A. Caldwell, Peter Christothoulou and John Keister, our founders, together controlled 90% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Their collective voting control is not tied to their continued employment with Marchex. The loss
of the services of any member of our senior management, including our founders, for any reason, or any conflict among our founders, could harm our current and future operations and prospects.  We may have difficulty retaining current personnel as well as attracting and retaining additional qualified, experienced, highly skilled personnel, which could adversely affect the implementation of
our business plan.  Our performance is largely dependent upon the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. In
order to fully implement our business plan, we will need to retain our current qualified personnel, as well as attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Thus, our success will in significant part depend upon our retention of current
personnel as well as the efforts of personnel not yet identified and upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. We are also dependent on managerial and technical personnel to the
extent they may have knowledge or information about our businesses and technical 
  19 


Table of Contents

systems that may not be known by our other personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain necessary personnel. The failure to hire and retain such personnel could
adversely affect the implementation of our business plan.  If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance, our financial
condition could be adversely affected in the event of uninsured or inadequately insured loss or damage. Our ability to effectively recruit and retain qualified officers and directors may also be adversely affected if we experience difficulty in
maintaining adequate directors’ and officers’ liability insurance.  We may not be able to obtain and maintain
insurance policies on terms affordable to us that would adequately insure our business and property against damage, loss or claims by third parties. To the extent our business or property suffers any damages, losses or claims by third parties that
are not covered or adequately covered by insurance, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected.  We
currently have directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance as a public company to cover liability claims made against our officers and directors, we may not be able to retain or recruit
qualified officers and directors to manage our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  It may be difficult
for us to retain or attract qualified officers and directors, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to maintain the listing of our Class B common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 
We may be unable to attract and retain qualified officers, directors and members of board committees required to provide for our effective
management as a result of changes in the rules and regulations which govern publicly-held companies, including, but not limited to, certifications from executive officers and requirements for financial experts on boards of directors. The perceived
increased personal risk associated with these changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting these roles. Further, applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Stock Market heighten the
requirements for board or committee membership, particularly with respect to an individual’s independence from the corporation and level of experience in finance and accounting matters. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining directors
with the requisite qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified officers and directors, our business and our ability to maintain the listing of our shares of Class B common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market could be
adversely affected.  If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial
results or prevent fraud, which could harm our brand and operating results.  Effective internal controls are necessary for
us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have devoted significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In
addition, Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess and our auditors attest to the effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting. Our current and future compliance with the annual internal control report
requirement will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across our operating subsidiaries. We expect these systems and controls to become increasingly complex to the extent that we integrate acquisitions
and our business grows. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we
design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our
operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading
price of our stock and our access to capital. 
  20 


Table of Contents
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a decrease in earnings.
 Current accounting rules require that goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be
amortized, but instead be tested for impairment at least annually. These rules also require that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Events and circumstances considered in determining whether the carrying value of amortizable intangible assets and
goodwill may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to: significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results; significant changes in the use of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends; or a
significant decline in our stock price and/or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. To the extent such evaluation indicates that the useful lives of intangible assets are different than originally estimated, the amortization period
is reduced or extended and, accordingly, the quarterly amortization expense is increased or decreased. To the extent such evaluation indicates that the useful lives of intangible assets are different than originally estimated, the amortization
period is reduced or extended and, accordingly, amortization expense is increased or decreased.  We recorded a substantial
non-cash impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the impact of the adverse economic environment including the deterioration in the equity and credit markets. We may be required to record
future charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any additional impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. Any impairment charges or changes to the estimated amortization periods could
have a material adverse effect on our financial results.  We may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income
tax asset.  Factors in our ability to realize a tax benefit from our deferred income tax asset include tax attributes and
operating results of acquired businesses, the nature, extent and periods that temporary differences are expected to reverse and our expectations about future operating results. If we determine that all or a portion of the deferred income tax asset
will not result in a future tax benefit, a valuation allowance may be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The likelihood of
recording such a valuation allowance may be impacted by our acquisitions, and increases during periods of economic downturn.  We may not be
able to realize the intended and anticipated benefits from our acquisitions of Internet domain names in part due to our increasing business focus on digital call advertising products, which could affect the value of these acquisitions to our
business and our ability to meet our financial obligations and targets.  We may not be able to realize the intended and
anticipated benefits from our acquisitions of Internet domain names in part due to our increasing focus on digital call advertising products. These intended and anticipated benefits included increasing our cash flow from operations, broadening our
distribution offerings and delivering services that strengthen our advertiser relationships.  If the acquired assets are not
integrated into our business as we had anticipated, we may not be able to achieve these benefits or realize the value paid for our acquisitions of Internet domain names, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of
operations.  We do not control the means by which users access our web sites, and material changes to current navigation practices or
technologies or marketing practices or significant increases in our marketing costs could result in a material adverse effect on our business.  The success of our proprietary web site traffic sources depends in large part upon consumer access to our web sites. Consumers access our web sites primarily through the following methods: directly
accessing our web 
  21 


Table of Contents

sites by typing descriptive keywords or keyword strings into the uniform resource locator (URL) address box of an Internet browser; accessing our web sites by clicking on bookmarked web sites;
and accessing our web sites through search engines and directories.  Each of these methods requires the use of a third party
product or service, such as an Internet browser or search engine application or directory. Internet browsers may provide alternatives to the URL address box to locate web sites, and search engines may from time to time change and establish rules
regarding the indexing and optimization of web sites. We also market certain web sites through search engine applications. Historically, we have limited our search engine marketing to less than five leading search engines. 
Product developments and market practices for these means of access to our web sites are not within our control. We may experience a
decline in traffic to our web sites if third party browser technologies or search engine methodologies and rules are changed to our disadvantage. We have experienced abrupt search engine algorithm and policy changes in the past. We expect the search
engine applications we utilize to market and drive users to our web sites to continue to periodically change their algorithms, policies and technologies. These changes may result in an interruption in users ability to access our web sites or impair
our ability to maintain and grow the number of users who visit our web sites. We may also be forced to significantly increase marketing expenditures in the event that market prices for online advertising and paid-listings escalate. Any of these
changes could have a material adverse effect on our business.  We may experience unforeseen liabilities in connection with our acquisitions
of Internet domain names or arising out of third party domain names included in our distribution network, which could negatively impact our financial results.  Certain of our acquisitions involved the acquisition of a large number of previously-owned Internet domain names. Furthermore, we have separately acquired and may acquire in the future additional
previously-owned Internet domain names. In some cases, these acquired names may have trademark significance that is not readily apparent to us or is not identified by us in the bulk purchasing process. As a result we may face demands by third party
trademark owners asserting infringement or dilution of their rights and seeking transfer of acquired Internet domain names under the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy administered by ICANN or actions under the U.S. Anti-Cybersquatting
Consumer Protection Act. Additionally, we display pay-for-call or pay-per-click listings on third party domain names and third party web sites that are part of our distribution network, which also could subject us to a wide variety of civil claims
including intellectual property ownership and infringement.  We intend to review each claim or demand which may arise from
time to time on its merits on a case-by-case basis with the assistance of counsel and we intend to transfer any rights acquired by us to any party that has demonstrated a valid prior right or claim. We cannot, however, guarantee that we will be able
to resolve these disputes without litigation. The potential violation of third party intellectual property rights and potential causes of action under consumer protection laws may subject us to unforeseen liabilities including injunctions and
judgments for money damages.  Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry  If we are unable to compete in the highly competitive performance-based advertising and search marketing industries, we may experience reduced demand for our products and services. 
We operate in a highly competitive and changing environment. We principally compete with other companies which offer services in the
following areas:   


 
•
 
 sales to advertisers of pay-for-call services;   


 
•
 
 sales to advertisers of pay-per-click services; 
  22 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 aggregation or optimization of online advertising for distribution through mobile and online search engines and applications, product shopping engines,
directories, web sites or other offline outlets;   


 
•
 
 provision of local and vertical web sites containing information and user feedback designed to attract users and help consumers make better, more
informed local decisions, while providing targeted advertising inventory for advertisers;   


 
•
 
 delivery of pay-for-call advertising to end users or customers of advertisers through mobile and online destination web sites or other offline
distribution outlets;   


 
•
 
 delivery of online advertising to end users or customers of advertisers through mobile and online destination web sites or other offline distribution
outlets;   


 
•
 
 local search sales training;   


 
•
 
 services and outsourcing of technologies that allow advertisers to manage their advertising campaigns across multiple networks and track the success of
these campaigns;   


 
•
 
 third party domain monetization; and   


 
•
 
 sales to advertisers of call tracking, call analytics, and presence management services. 
Although we currently pursue a strategy that allows us to potentially partner with all relevant companies in the industry, there are
certain companies in the industry that may not wish to partner with us. Despite the fact that we currently work with several of our potential competitors, there are no guarantees that these companies will continue to work with us in the future.
 We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies, including Google, IAC/InterActiveCorp, Microsoft, Yahoo!,
Yext! and ReachLocal. Many of these actual or perceived competitors also currently or may in the future have business relationships with us, particularly in distribution. However, such companies may terminate their relationships with us.
Furthermore, our competitors may be able to secure agreements with us on more favorable terms, which could reduce the usage of our services, increase the amount payable to our distribution partners, reduce total revenue and thereby have a material
adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  We expect competition to intensify in the future
because current and new competitors can enter our market with little difficulty. The barriers to entering our market are relatively low. In fact, many current Internet and media companies presently have the technical capabilities and advertiser
bases to enter the search marketing services industry. Further, if the consolidation trend continues among the larger media and search engine companies with greater brand recognition, the share of the market remaining for smaller search marketing
services providers could decrease, even though the number of smaller providers could continue to increase. These factors could adversely affect our competitive position.  Some of our competitors, as well as potential entrants into our market, may be better positioned to succeed in this market. They may have: 
 


 
•
 
 longer operating histories;   


 
•
 
 more management experience;   


 
•
 
 an employee base with more extensive experience;   


 
•
 
 better geographic coverage;   


 
•
 
 larger customer bases;   


 
•
 
 greater brand recognition; and   


 
•
 
 significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. 
  23 


Table of Contents
Currently, and in the future, as the use of the Internet and other mobile and online
services increases, there will likely be larger, more well-established and well-financed entities that acquire companies and/or invest in or form joint ventures in categories or countries of interest to us, all of which could adversely impact our
business. Any of these trends could increase competition and reduce the demand for any of our services.  We face competition from
traditional media companies, and we may not be included in the advertising budgets of large advertisers, which could harm our operating results.  In addition to Internet companies, we face competition from companies that offer traditional media advertising opportunities. Most large advertisers have set advertising budgets, a very small portion of
which is allocated to Internet advertising. We expect that large advertisers will continue to focus most of their advertising efforts on traditional media. If we fail to convince these companies to spend a portion of their advertising budgets with
us, or if our existing advertisers reduce the amount they spend on our programs, our operating results would be harmed.  If we are not able
to respond to the rapid technological change characteristic of our industry, our products and services may cease to be competitive.  The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid change in business models and technological infrastructure, and we will need to constantly adapt to changing markets and technologies to
provide new and competitive products and services. If we are unable to ensure that our users, advertisers, reseller partners, and distribution partners have a high-quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied
and move to competitors’ products and services. Accordingly, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to develop and offer competitive products and services for both our target market and for applications in new markets. We may
not, however, be able to successfully do so, and our competitors may develop innovations that render our products and services obsolete or uncompetitive.  Our technical systems are vulnerable to interruption and damage that may be costly and time-consuming to resolve and may harm our business and reputation. 
A disaster could interrupt our services for an indeterminate length of time and severely damage our business, prospects, financial
condition and results of operations. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:   


 
•
 
 fire;   


 
•
 
 floods;   


 
•
 
 network failure;   


 
•
 
 hardware failure;   


 
•
 
 software failure;   


 
•
 
 power loss;   


 
•
 
 telecommunications failures;   


 
•
 
 break-ins;   


 
•
 
 terrorism, war or sabotage;   


 
•
 
 computer viruses;   


 
•
 
 denial of service attacks;   


 
•
 
 penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users and “hackers” and other similar events; 
 


 
•
 
 natural disaster; and   


 
•
 
 other unanticipated problems. 
  24 


Table of Contents
We may not have developed or implemented adequate protections or safeguards to overcome any
of these events. We also may not have anticipated or addressed many of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our technology network. Any of these occurrences could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, result in the
loss of data or render us unable to provide services to our customers. In addition, if a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or misappropriate valuable information, including sensitive customer information, or
disrupt our operations. We have deployed firewall hardware intended to thwart hacker attacks. Although we maintain property insurance and business interruption insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may
occur as a result of a catastrophic system failure or other loss, and our insurers may not be able or may decline to do so for a variety of reasons.  If we fail to address these issues in a timely manner, we may lose the confidence of our advertisers, reseller partners, and distribution partners, our revenue may decline and our business could suffer.
In addition, as we expand our service offerings and enter into new business areas, we may be required to significantly modify and expand our software and technology platform. If we fail to accomplish these tasks in a timely manner, our business and
reputation will likely suffer.  We rely on third party technology, platforms, carriers, communications providers, and server and hardware
providers, and a failure of service by these providers could adversely affect our business and reputation.  We rely upon
third party colocation providers to host our main servers. If these providers are unable to handle current or higher volumes of use, experience any interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on
satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be
successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. In the past, we have
experienced short-term outages in the service maintained by one of our colocation providers.  We also rely on a select group
of third party providers for components of our technology platform and support for our advertising and call-based services, such as hardware and software providers, telecommunications carriers and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) providers,
credit card processors and domain name registrars. As a result, key operational resources of our business are concentrated with a limited number of third party providers. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third
party providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. Furthermore, if any of these significant providers are unable to provide the levels of service and dedicated resources over time that we required in our business, we may not be able
to replace certain of these providers in a manner that is efficient, cost-effective or satisfactory to our customers, and as a result our business could be materially and adversely affected.  If our security measures are breached or are perceived as not being secure, we may lose advertisers, reseller partners and distribution partners and we may incur significant legal and financial
exposure.  We store and transmit data and information about our advertisers, reseller partners, distribution partners and
their respective users. We deploy security measures to protect this data and information, as do third parties we utilize to assist in data and information storage. Our security measures and those of the third parties we partner with to assist in
data and information storage may suffer breaches. Security breaches of our data storage systems or our third party colocation and technology providers we utilize to store data and information relating to our advertisers, reseller partners,
distribution partners and their respective users could expose us to significant potential liability. In addition, security breaches, actual or perceived, could result in the loss of advertisers, reseller partners and distribution partners that could
potentially have an adverse effect on our business. 
  25 


Table of Contents
We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in our competitors
marketing competing products and services utilizing our intellectual property and could adversely affect our competitive position.  Our success and ability to compete effectively are substantially dependent upon our internally developed and acquired technology and data resources, which we protect through a combination of copyright,
trade secret, and patent and trademark law. To date, we have had issued or have applications pending for the following patents:   


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 7,668,950 entitled “Automatically Updating Performance-Based Online Advertising System and Method” was issued
February 23, 2010.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/985,188 entitled “Method and System for Tracking Telephone Calls” was filed on
November 14, 2007 and a corresponding divisional Patent Application Number 13/294,436 was filed November 11, 2011.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 6,822,663 entitled “Transform Rule Generator for Web-Based Markup Languages” was issued November 23, 2004.
  


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/512,821 entitled “Facility for Reconciliation of Business Records Using Genetic Algorithms”
was filed on July 30, 2009.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/829,372 entitled “System and Method to Direct Telephone Calls to Advertisers” and U.S.
Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/829,373 entitled System and Method for Calling Advertised Telephone Numbers on a Computing Device” and U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/829,375 entitled System and Method to Analyze
Calls to Advertised Telephone Numbers were all filed on July 1, 2010. U.S. Respective corresponding PCT Application Numbers PCT/US11/42792, PCT/US11/42812 and PCT/US11/42819 were filed July 1, 2011. 
 


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 12/844,488 entitled “Systems and Methods for Blocking Telephone Calls” was filed on
July 27, 2010 and corresponding PCT Application Number PCT/US11/45403 was filed July 26, 2011.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 7,212,615 entitled “Criteria Based Marketing For Telephone Directory Assistance” was issued May 1, 2007 owned by
Jingle which we acquired in 2011.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 7,702,084 entitled “Toll-Free Directory Assistance With Preferred Advertisement Listing” was issued April 20, 2010.
  


 
•
 
 U.S. Patent Number 7,961,861 entitled “Telephone Search Supported By Response Location Advertising” was issued June 14, 2011 and
corresponding European Application Number 5826299.99 was filed November 29, 2005.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/290,148 entitled “Telephone Search Supported By Advertising Based On Past History Of
Requests” was filed November 29, 2005.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/291,094 entitled “Telephone Search Supported By Keyword Map To Advertising” was filed
November 29, 2005.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/728,189 entitled “Toll-Free Directory Assistance With Automatic Selection Of An Advertisement
From A Category” was filed March 23, 2007.   


 
•
 
 U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Number 11/897,262 entitled “Directory Assistance With Data Processing Station” was filed
August 29, 2007.  In the future, additional patents may be filed with respect to internally developed
or acquired technologies. Our industry is highly competitive and many individuals and companies have sought to patent processes in the industry. We may decide not to protect certain intellectual properties or business methods which may later turn

  26 


Table of Contents

out to be significant to us. In addition, the patent process takes several years and involves considerable expense. Further, patent applications and patent positions in our industry are highly
uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions due in part to the number of competing technologies. As a result, we may not be able to successfully prosecute these patents, in whole or in part, or any additional patent filings that we may
make in the future. We also depend on our trademarks, trade names and domain names. We may not be able to adequately protect our technology and data resources. In addition, intellectual property laws vary from country to country, and it may be more
difficult to protect our intellectual property in some foreign jurisdictions in which we may plan to enter. If we fail to obtain and maintain patent or other intellectual property protection for our technology, our competitors could market competing
products and services utilizing our technology.  Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties
domestically and internationally may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our services, technology and other intellectual property. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among
consumers and advertisers. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use, our competitive position could be adversely affected.  We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive and time consuming.  We may initiate patent litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our patent rights, and we may be sued by others seeking to invalidate our patents or prevent the issuance of future patents.
We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits,
interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any
litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not being issued.  Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by
disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If
securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our Class B common stock.  Our quarterly results of operations might fluctuate due to seasonality, which could adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities. 
Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to seasonal fluctuations in the level of mobile and
Internet usage and seasonal purchasing cycles of many advertisers. It is generally understood that during the spring and summer months of the year, mobile and Internet usage is lower than during other times of the year, especially in comparison to
the fourth quarter of the calendar year. The extent to which usage may decrease during these off-peak periods is difficult to predict. Prolonged or severe decreases in usage during these periods may adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the
market price of our securities. Additionally, the current business environment has resulted in many advertisers and reseller partners reducing advertising and marketing services budgets or changing such budgets throughout the year, which may impact
our quarterly results of operations in addition to typical seasonality seen in our industry.  We are susceptible to general economic
conditions, and a downturn in advertising and marketing spending by advertisers could adversely affect our operating results.  Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations based on general economic conditions, in particular those conditions that impact advertiser-consumer transactions. Deterioration in economic
conditions could cause 
  27 


Table of Contents

decreases in or delays in advertising spending and reduce and/or negatively impact our short term ability to grow our revenues. Further, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable or
early termination of agreements due to deterioration in economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations.  We depend
on the growth of the Internet and mobile and Internet infrastructure for our future growth and any decrease in growth or anticipated growth in mobile and Internet usage could adversely affect our business prospects. 
Our future revenue and profits, if any, depend upon the continued widespread use of the Internet as an effective commercial and business
medium. Factors which could reduce the widespread use of the Internet include:   


 
•
 
 possible disruptions or other damage to the mobile, Internet or telecommunications infrastructure and networks; 
 


 
•
 
 failure of the individual networking infrastructures of our advertisers, reseller partners, and distribution partners to alleviate potential
overloading and delayed response times;   


 
•
 
 a decision by advertisers and consumers to spend more of their marketing dollars on offline programs; 
 


 
•
 
 increased governmental regulation and taxation; and   


 
•
 
 actual or perceived lack of security or privacy protection.  In particular, concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users, including the risk of identity theft, may inhibit the growth of Internet usage, especially
mobile and online commercial transactions. In order for the mobile and online commerce market to develop successfully, we and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely
over public networks. Any decrease in anticipated Internet growth and usage could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. 
We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit payment, and we may continue to suffer losses as a result of fraudulent data or
payment failure by advertisers.  We have suffered losses and may continue to suffer losses as a result of payments made
with fraudulent credit card data. Our failure to control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our net revenue and gross margin and negatively impact our standing with applicable credit card authorization agencies. In addition, under
limited circumstances, we extend credit to advertisers who may default on their accounts payable to us or fraudulently “charge-back” amounts on their credit cards for services that have already been delivered by us. 
Government regulation of the Internet may adversely affect our business and operating results. 
Mobile and online search, e-commerce and related businesses face uncertainty related to future government regulation of the Internet
through the application of new or existing federal, state and international laws. Due to the rapid growth and widespread use of the Internet, legislatures at the federal and state level have enacted and may continue to enact various laws and
regulations relating to the Internet. Individual states may also enact consumer protection laws that are more restrictive than the ones that already exist.  Furthermore, the application of existing laws and regulations to Internet companies remains somewhat unclear. For example, as a result of the actions of advertisers in our network, we may be subject to
existing laws and regulations relating to a wide variety of issues such as consumer privacy, gambling, sweepstakes, advertising, promotions, defamation, pricing, taxation, financial market regulation, quality of products and services, computer
trespass, spyware, adware, child protection and intellectual property ownership and infringement. In addition, it is not clear whether existing laws that require licenses or permits for certain of our

  28 


Table of Contents

advertisers’ lines of business apply to us, including those related to insurance and securities brokerage, law offices and pharmacies. Existing federal and state laws that may impact the
growth and profitability of our business include, among others:   


 
•
 
 The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides protection from copyright liability for online service providers that list or link to third party
web sites. We currently qualify for the safe harbor under the DMCA; however, if it were determined that we did not meet the safe harbor requirements, we could be exposed to copyright infringement litigation, which could be costly and time-consuming.
  


 
•
 
 The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) restricts the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and imposes
limitations on web sites’ ability to collect personal information from minors. COPPA allows the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to impose fines and penalties upon web site operators whose sites do not fully comply with the law’s
requirements. We do not currently offer any web sites “directed to children,” nor do we collect personal data from children.   


 
•
 
 The Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography
laws under certain circumstances.   


 
•
 
 The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing (CAN SPAM) Act of 2003 establishes requirements for those who send commercial
e-mails, spells out penalties for entities that transmit noncompliant commercial e-mail and/or whose products are advertised in noncompliant commercial e-mail and gives consumers the right to opt-out of receiving commercial e-mails. The majority of
the states also have adopted similar statutes governing the transmission of commercial e-mail. The FTC and the states, as applicable, are authorized to enforce the CAN-SPAM Act and the state-specific statutes, respectively. CAN-SPAM gives the
Department of Justice the authority to enforce its criminal sanctions. Other federal and state agencies can enforce the law against organizations under their jurisdiction, and companies that provide Internet access may sue violators as well.
  


 
•
 
 The Electronic Communications Privacy Act prevents private entities from disclosing Internet subscriber records and the contents of electronic
communications, subject to certain exceptions.   


 
•
 
 The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and other federal and state laws protect computer users from unauthorized computer access/hacking, and other actions
by third parties which may be viewed as a violation of privacy. Courts may apply each of these laws in unintended and unexpected ways. As a company that provides services over the Internet as well as call recording and call tracking services, we may
be subject to an action brought under any of these or future laws.   


 
•
 
 Among the types of legislation currently being considered at the federal and state levels are consumer laws regulating for the use of certain types of
software applications or downloads and the use of “cookies.” These proposed laws are intended to target specific types of software applications often referred to as “spyware,” “invasiveware” or “adware,” and
may also cover certain applications currently used in the online advertising industry to serve and distribute advertisements. In addition, the FTC has sought inquiry regarding the implementation of a “do-not-track” requirement. Federal
legislation is also expected to be introduced that would regulate “online behavioral advertising” practices. If passed, these laws would impose new obligations for companies that use such software applications or technologies.
 Many Internet services are automated, and companies such as ours may be unknowing conduits for illegal or
prohibited materials. It is possible that some courts may impose a strict liability standard or require such companies to monitor their customers’ conduct. Although we would not be responsible or involved in any way in such illegal conduct, it
is possible that we would somehow be held responsible for the actions of our advertisers or distribution partners.  We may
also be subject to costs and liabilities with respect to privacy issues. Several companies have incurred penalties for failing to abide by the representations made in their public-facing privacy policies. In addition, several states have passed laws
that require businesses to implement and maintain reasonable security 
  29 


Table of Contents

procedures and practices to protect sensitive personal information and to provide notice to consumers in the event of a security breach. Further, it is anticipated that additional federal and
state privacy-related legislation will be enacted. Such legislation could negatively affect our business.  In addition,
foreign governments may pass laws which could negatively impact our business and/or may prosecute us for violating existing laws. Such laws might include EU member country conforming legislation under applicable EU Privacy, eCommerce,
Telecommunications and Data Protection Directives. Any costs incurred in addressing foreign laws could negatively affect the viability of our business. Our exposure to this risk will increase to the extent we expand our operations internationally.
 Federal and state regulation of telecommunications may adversely affect our business and operating results. 
Subsidiaries of the Company provide information and analytics services to certain advertisers and reseller partners that may include
information services. In connection therewith, the Company, through its subsidiaries, obtains certain telecommunications products and services from carriers in order to deliver these packages of information and analytic services. 
Telecommunications laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) are evolving in response to rapid changes in the telecommunications
industry. If our carrier partners were to be subject to any changes in applicable law or regulation (or interpretations thereof), or additional taxes or surcharges, then we in turn may be subject to increased costs for their products and services or
receive products and services that may be of less value to our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our business and operating results. Furthermore, to the extent we offer call recording and pay-for-call services, we may be directly
subject to certain telecommunications-related regulations. Finally, in the event that any federal or state regulators were to expand the scope of applicable laws and regulations or their application to include certain end users and information
service providers, then our business and operating results could also be adversely affected.  The following existing and
possible future federal and state laws could impact the growth and profitability of our business:   


 
•
 
 The Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the “Act”), and the regulations promulgated by the Federal
Communications Commission under Title II of the Act, may impose federal licensing, reporting and other regulatory obligations on the Company. To the extent we contract with and use the networks of voice over IP service providers, new legislation or
FCC regulation in this area could restrict our business, prevent us from offering service or increase our cost of doing business. There are an increasing number of regulations and rulings that specifically address access to commerce and
communications services on the Internet, including IP telephony. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that future legislation, legal decisions or regulations concerning voice services offered via the Internet may have on our business,
financial condition, and results of operations.   


 
•
 
 The U.S. Congress, the FCC, state legislatures or state agencies may target, among other things, access or settlement charges, imposing taxes related
to Internet communications, imposing tariffs or other regulations based on encryption concerns, or the characteristics and quality of products and services that we may offer. Any new laws or regulations concerning these or other areas of our
business could restrict our growth or increase our cost of doing business.   


 
•
 
 The FCC has initiated a proceeding regarding the regulation of broadband services. The increasing growth of the broadband IP telephony market and
popularity of broadband IP telephony products and services heighten the risk that the FCC or other legislative bodies will seek to regulate broadband IP telephony and the Internet. In addition, large, established telecommunication companies may
devote substantial lobbying efforts to influence the regulation of the broadband IP telephony market, which may be contrary to our interests. 
  30 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 There is risk that a regulatory agency will require us to conform to rules that are unsuitable for IP communications technologies or rules that cannot
be complied with due to the nature and efficiencies of IP routing, or are unnecessary or unreasonable in light of the manner in which we offer voice-related services such as call recording and pay-for-call services to our customers.
  


 
•
 
 Federal and state telemarketing laws including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Telemarketing Consumer Fraud
and Abuse Prevention Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.   


 
•
 
 Laws affecting telephone call recording and data protection, such as consent and personal data statutes. Under the federal Wiretap Act, at least one
party taking part in a call must be notified if the call is being recorded. Under this law, and most state laws, there is nothing illegal about one of the parties to a telephone call recording the conversation. However, several states (i.e.,
California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Washington) require that all parties consent when one party wants to record a telephone conversation. The telephone
recording laws in other states, like federal law, require only one party to be aware of the recording. A Wiretap Act violation is a Class D felony; the maximum authorized penalties for a violation of section 2511(1) of the Wiretap Act are
imprisonment of not more than five years and a fine under Title 18. Authorized fines are typically not more than $250,000 for individuals or $500,000 for an organization, unless there is a substantial loss. State laws impose similar penalties.
  


 
•
 
 The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act may require that the Company undertake material modifications to its platforms and processes to
permit wiretapping and other access for law enforcement personnel.   


 
•
 
 Under various Orders of the Federal Communications Commission, the Company may be required to make material retroactive and prospective contributions
to funds intended to support Universal Service, Telecommunications Relay Service, Local Number Portability, the North American Numbering Plan and the budget of the Federal Communications Commission. 
 


 
•
 
 Laws in most states of the United States of America may require registration or licensing of one or more subsidiaries of the Company, and may impose
additional taxes, fees or telecommunications surcharges on the provision of the Company’s services which the Company may not be able to pass through to customers.  State and local governments may in the future be permitted to levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions, which could result in a decrease in the level of usage of
our services. In addition, we may be required to pay additional income, sales, or other taxes.  On November 19, 2004,
the federal government passed legislation placing a ban on state and local governments’ imposition of new taxes on Internet access or electronic commerce transactions which expires in November 2014. Unless the ban is further extended, state and
local governments may begin to levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions upon the legislation’s expiration. An increase in taxes may make electronic commerce transactions less attractive for advertisers and
businesses, which could result in a decrease in the level of usage of our services. Additionally, from time to time, various state, federal and other jurisdictional tax authorities undertake reviews of the Company and the Company’s filings. In
evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company on occasion accrues charges for probable exposures. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these reviews.  Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock  Our Class B common stock prices have
been and are likely to continue to be highly volatile.  The trading prices of our Class B common stock have been and are
likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since our initial public offering, the closing sale price of our Class B common 
  31 


Table of Contents

stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $3.00 to $26.14 per share through December 31, 2011. Our stock prices may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, which
may be the result of our business strategy or events beyond our control, including:   


 
•
 
 developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, by us or a competitor; 
 


 
•
 
 announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, financings, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital
commitments;   


 
•
 
 registration of additional shares of Class B common stock in connection with acquisitions, including in connection with our Jingle acquisition;
  


 
•
 
 actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 
 


 
•
 
 lawsuits initiated against us or lawsuits initiated by us; 
 


 
•
 
 announcements of acquisitions or technical innovations; 
 


 
•
 
 potential loss or reduced contributions from distribution partners, reseller partners and agencies, or advertisers; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in growth or earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the market valuations of similar companies; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in our industry and the overall economic environment; 
 


 
•
 
 volume of shares of Class B common stock available for public sale, including upon conversion of Class A common stock or upon exercise of stock
options;   


 
•
 
 Class B common stock repurchases under our previously announced share repurchase program; 
 


 
•
 
 sales and purchases of stock by us or by our stockholders, including sales by certain of our executive officers and directors pursuant to written
pre-determined selling and purchase plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   


 
•
 
 short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class B common stock. 
In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for mobile and online commerce companies in
particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price
of our Class B common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. 
Litigation against us, whether or not judgment is entered against us, could result in substantial costs and potentially economic loss,
and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, any of which could seriously harm our financial condition. Additionally, there can be no assurance that an active trading market of our Class B common stock will be sustained.
 Our founders control the outcome of stockholder voting, and there may be an adverse effect on the price of our Class B common stock due to
the disparate voting rights of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock.  As of December 31, 2011,
Russell C. Horowitz, Ethan A. Caldwell, Peter Christothoulou and John Keister, our founders, beneficially owned 100% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, which shares represented 90% of the combined voting power of all
outstanding shares of our capital stock. These founders together control 90% of the combined voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock. The holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock have identical rights
except that the holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to 
  32 


Table of Contents

twenty-five votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to our other stockholders with interests different from those of
these founders. This difference in the voting rights of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock could adversely affect the price of our Class B common stock to the extent that investors or any potential future purchaser of our shares
of Class B common stock give greater value to the superior voting rights of our Class A common stock. Further, as long as these founders have a controlling interest, they will continue to be able to elect all or a majority of our board of
directors and generally be able to determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, these founders will be in a position to continue to control all fundamental matters affecting our company, including any
merger involving, sale of substantially all of the assets of, or change in control of, our company. The ability of these founders to control our company may result in our Class B common stock trading at a price lower than the price at which such
stock would trade if these founders did not have a controlling interest in us. This control may deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us which could adversely affect the market price of our Class B common stock. 
Anti-takeover provisions may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. 
Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, our by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a
third party from acquiring us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class B common stock. The following are
examples of such provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, or our by-laws:   


 
•
 
 the authorized number of our directors can be changed only by a resolution of our board of directors; 
 


 
•
 
 advance notice is required for proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; 
 


 
•
 
 there are limitations on who may call stockholder meetings; and 
 


 
•
 
 our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue “blank check” preferred stock.
 We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to
enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the
person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. The application of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. 
We may not be able to continue to pay dividends on our common stock in the future which could impair the value of such stock. 
Under Delaware law, dividends to stockholders may be made only from the surplus of a company, or, in certain situations, from the net
profits for the current fiscal year or the fiscal year before which the dividend is declared. We have initiated and paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock since November 2006. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to pay
dividends in the future. Our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend on our financial results, liquidity and financial condition.   


ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. 
None. 
  33 


Table of Contents


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES.  Our
headquarters are located in Seattle, Washington and consist of approximately 61,000 square feet of leased office space expiring in March 2018. We also lease additional office space in Las Vegas, Nevada, Billerica, Massachusetts, and New York, New
York with lease terms expiring between August 2012 and March 2018. Our information technology systems are hosted and maintained in third party facilities under collocation services agreements. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under
the caption “Information Technology and Systems.”  We believe that our existing facilities, together with additional
space we believe we can lease at reasonable market rates, are adequate for our near term business needs.   


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.  We
are not a party to any material legal proceedings. From time to time, however, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property rights, and a
variety of claims arising in connection with our services.   


ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. 
Not Applicable. 
  34 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. 
Market Information  Our
Class B common stock has been traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “MCHX” since March 31, 2004 when we completed our initial public offering at a price of $6.50 per share. Prior to that time, there was no public
market for our Class B common stock. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low closing sales prices for Marchex’s Class B common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market: 
 












 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Year ended December 31, 2010
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
5.78
  
  
$
4.87
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
5.44
  
  
$
3.85
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
5.55
  
  
$
3.80
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
9.72
  
  
$
5.15
  

 Year ended December 31, 2011
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
9.94
  
  
$
7.42
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
8.99
  
  
$
6.54
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
10.80
  
  
$
7.85
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
9.14
  
  
$
5.67
  
 Holders  As of March 7, 2012, there were 37,165,083 shares of common stock outstanding that were held by 75 stockholders of record. Of these shares: 
 


 
•
 
 9,570,382 shares were issued as Class A common stock, and as of this date were held by 4 stockholders of record; and
  


 
•
 
 27,594,701 shares were issued as Class B common stock, and as of this date were held by 71 stockholders of record. 
Dividends  In November
2006, we initiated a quarterly cash dividend at $0.02 per share of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Although we expect that the annual cash dividend, subject to capital availability, will be $0.08 per common share or approximately
$3.0 million for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at such rate or at all. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
During the fourth quarter of 2011, share repurchase activity was as follows: 
 




















 Period
  
Total number ofsharespurchased
 
 
Averageprice paidper share
 
  
Total number ofshares purchased aspart of publiclyannounced plansor
programs
 
  
Maximum number ofshares
(or approximatedollar value) that may yetbe purchased under theplans or programs(1)
 

 Class B Common Shares:
  



 



  



  




 October 1 - October 31, 2011
  
 
6,300
  
 
$
8.63
  
  
 
6,300
  
  
 
588,331
  

 November 1 - November 30, 2011
  
 
295,471
  
 
$
6.11
  
  
 
295,471
  
  
 
292,860
  

 December 1 - December 31, 2011
  
 
157,292
  
 
$
6.78
  
  
 
157,292
  
  
 
1,135,568
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total Class B Common Shares
  
 
459,063
  
 
$
6.37
  
  
 
459,063
  
  
 
1,135,568
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  


(1) 
 We have established a share repurchase program which currently authorizes the Company to repurchase up to 12 million shares in the aggregate (less
shares previously repurchased under the share repurchase program) of the Company’s Class B common stock. No shares will be knowingly purchased from company insiders or their affiliates. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will
depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements, capital availability, and other market conditions. This stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be expanded, limited or terminated at
any time without prior notice. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Stock Performance Graph  This performance graph shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) or otherwise subject to the
liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Marchex under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act. 
The following graph shows a comparison from December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2011 of cumulative total return for our
Class B common stock, the NASDAQ Composite Index (the “NASDAQ Composite Index”) and the RDG Internet Composite Index (the “RDG Index”). Measurement points are the last trading day of each of the Company’s fiscal years
ended December 31, 2006 through 2011. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2006 in the Class B common stock of the Company, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the RDG Internet Composite Index and assumes reinvestment of any
dividends. Such returns are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance.   



                        *$ 100
invested on 12/31/06 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 
                        Fiscal
year ending December 31.   




























  
 
12/31/06
 
 
12/31/07
 
 
12/31/08
 
 
12/31/09
 
 
12/31/10
 
 
12/31/11
 

 Marchex, Inc.
 
$
100.00
  
 
$
81.69
  
 
$
44.25
  
 
$
39.23
  
 
$
74.77
  
 
$
49.47
  


NASDAQ Composite Index
 
$
100.00
  
 
$
110.26
  
 
$
65.65
  
 
$
95.19
  
 
$
112.10
  
 
$
110.81
  


RDG Internet Composite Index
 
$
100.00
  
 
$
126.21
  
 
$
67.19
  
 
$
120.51
  
 
$
145.40
  
 
$
149.87
  

  37 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. 
The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  The consolidated financial data for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements which are not included in this Form 10-K. 
The consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and the consolidated balance
sheet data at December 31, 2010 and 2011, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period.  Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (in thousands except per share amounts):   
























 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Revenue
  
$
139,391
  
  
$
146,375
  
  
$
93,261
  
  
$
97,566
  
  
$
146,726
  

 Income (loss) from operations
  
$
(3,037)
  
  
$
(175,286)
  
  
$
(3,570)
  
  
$
(3,789)
  
  
$
6,030
  

 Net loss
  
$
(1,505)
  
  
$
(127,864)
  
  
$
(2,062)
  
  
$
(3,043)
  
  
$
2,959
  

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(1,627)
  
  
$
(128,132)
  
  
$
(2,249)
  
  
$
(3,242)
  
  
$
2,700
  

 Basic net income (loss) per share applicable to Class A and Class B common stockholders
  
$
(0.04)
  
  
$
(3.52)
  
  
$
(0.07)
  
  
$
(0.10)
  
  
$
0.08
  

 Diluted loss per share applicable to Class A and Class B common stockholders
  
$
(0.04)
  
  
$
(3.52)
  
  
$
(0.07)
  
  
$
(0.10)
  
  
$
0.08
  

 Shares used to calculate basic net income (loss) per share applicable to common stockholders
  



  



  



  



  




 Class A
  
 
11,562
  
  
 
10,964
  
  
 
10,884
  
  
 
10,661
  
  
 
9,928
  

 Class B
  
 
27,375
  
  
 
25,468
  
  
 
22,830
  
  
 
21,993
  
  
 
23,358
  

 Shares used to calculate diluted net income (loss) per share applicable to common stockholders
  



  



  



  



  




 Class A
  
 
11,562
  
  
 
10,964
  
  
 
10,884
  
  
 
10,661
  
  
 
9,928
  

 Class B
  
 
38,937
  
  
 
36,432
  
  
 
33,714
  
  
 
32,654
  
  
 
35,318
  
 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data (in thousands): 
























 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
36,456
  
  
$
27,418
  
  
$
33,638
  
  
$
37,328
  
  
$
37,443
  

 Working capital
  
$
41,243
  
  
$
34,988
  
  
$
41,273
  
  
$
47,305
  
  
$
16,168
  

 Total assets
  
$
320,194
  
  
$
170,270
  
  
$
159,373
  
  
$
159,690
  
  
$
220,058
  

 Other non-current liabilities
  
$
105
  
  
$
23
  
  
$
1,005
  
  
$
2,076
  
  
$
2,580
  

 Total liabilities
  
$
18,306
  
  
$
20,962
  
  
$
17,948
  
  
$
19,998
  
  
$
61,050
  

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
$
301,888
  
  
$
149,308
  
  
$
141,425
  
  
$
139,692
  
  
$
159,008
  

 Cash dividends declared per common share
  
$
0.06
  
  
$
0.08
  
  
$
0.08
  
  
$
0.08
  
  
$
0.08
  

  38 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes to those
statements which appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see page 1 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K “Forward-Looking Statements” and Item 1A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions associated with these statements.  Overview  We are a digital call advertising and small business marketing
company. We deliver call and click-based advertising products and services to tens of thousands of advertisers, ranging from small businesses to Fortune 500 companies. Our technology-based products and services facilitate the efficient and
cost-effective marketing and selling of goods and services for national and small businesses who want to market and sell their products through call-ready media including mobile, online and offline; and a proprietary, locally-focused web site
network where we help consumers find local information, as well as fulfill our advertiser marketing campaigns:   


 
•
 
 Digital Call Advertising Services. We deliver a variety of digital call advertising products and services to national advertisers,
advertising agencies and small advertiser reseller partners. These services include Marchex Call Connect, where we provide pay-for-call advertisements through the Marchex Digital Call Marketplace, and Marchex Call Analytics, which include phone
number and call tracking, call mining, keyword-level tracking, click-to-call, web site proxying, and other call-based products which enable our customers to utilize mobile, online and offline advertising to drive calls as well as clicks into their
businesses and to measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns. Advertisers pay us a fee for each call they receive from call-based ads we distribute through our sources of call distribution or for each phone number tracked based on a
pre-negotiated rate.   


 
•
 
 Small Business Solutions. Our small business solutions enable reseller partners of small business advertisers, such as Yellow Pages
providers and vertical marketing service providers, to sell digital call advertising and/or search marketing products through their existing sales channels, which are then fulfilled by us across our distribution network, including mobile sources,
leading search engines and our own proprietary web site traffic sources. By creating a solution for companies who have relationships with small businesses, it is easier for these small businesses to participate in mobile, online, offline digital
call advertising. The lead services we offer to small business advertisers through our small business solutions include products typically available only to national advertisers, including pay-for-call, call tracking, presence management ad
creation, keyword selection, geo-targeting, advertising campaign management, reporting, and analytics. Our small business solutions have the capacity to support hundreds of thousands of advertiser accounts. Reseller partners and publishers generally
pay us account fees and also agency fees for our products in the form of a percentage of the cost of every click or call delivered to their advertisers. Through our contract with Yellowpages.com LLC d/b/a AT&T Interactive which is a subsidiary
of AT&T (collectively, “AT&T”), AT&T is our largest reseller partner and was responsible for 31% of our total revenues for 2011 of which the majority is derived from our small business solutions. 
 


 
•
 
 Pay-Per-Click Advertising. We deliver pay-per-click advertisements to online users in response to their keyword search queries or on
pages they visit throughout our distribution network of search engines, shopping engines, certain third party vertical and local web sites, mobile distribution and our own proprietary web site traffic sources. In addition to distributing their ads,
we offer account management services to help our advertisers optimize their pay-per-click campaigns, including editorial and keyword selection recommendations and report analysis. The pay-per-click advertisements are generally ordered based on the
amount our advertisers choose to pay for a placement and the relevancy of their ads to the keyword search. Advertisers pay us when a user clicks on their advertisements in our distribution

  39 


Table of Contents


 
 
network and we pay publishers or distribution partners a percentage of the revenue generated by the click-throughs on their site(s). In addition, we generate revenue from cost-per-action events
that take place on our distribution network. Cost-per-action revenue occurs when the user is redirected from one of our web sites or a third party web site in our distribution network to an advertiser’s web site and completes a specified
action. We also offer a private-label platform for publishers, separate and distinct from our small business solutions which enable them to monetize their web sites with contextual advertising from their own customers or from our advertising
relationships. We sell pay-per-click contextual advertising placements on specialized vertical and branded publisher web sites on a pay-per-click basis. Advertisers can target the placements by category, site- or page-specific basis. We believe our
site- and page-specific approach provides publishers with an opportunity to generate revenue from their traffic while protecting their brand. Our approach gives advertisers greater transparency into the source of the traffic and relevancy for their
ads and enables them to optimize the return on investment from their advertising campaign. The contextual advertisement placements are generally ordered based on the amount our advertisers choose to pay for a placement and the relevance of the
advertisement, based on historic click-through rates. Advertisers pay us when a user clicks on their advertisements in our network and we pay publishers a percentage of the revenue generated by the click-throughs on their site.
  


 
•
 
 Proprietary Web Site Traffic. We believe our Proprietary Web Site Traffic is a source of local information online and is a source of
calls within the Marchex Digital Call Marketplace. It includes more than 200,000 of our owned and operated web sites focused on helping users make informed decisions about where to get local products and services. It features listings from more than
10 million small business listings in the U.S. and millions of expert and user-generated reviews on small businesses. The more than 200,000 web sites in our network include more than 75,000 U.S. ZIP code sites, including 98102.com and
90210.com, covering ZIP code areas nationwide, as well as tens of thousands of other locally-focused sites such as Yellow.com, OpenList.com and geo-targeted sites. Traffic to our proprietary web sites is primarily monetized with pay-for-call
and pay-per-click listings that are relevant to the web sites, as well as other forms of advertising, including banner advertising.   


 
•
 
 Feed Management and Related Services. Through the end of 2009, we used our proprietary technology to crawl and extract relevant product
content from advertisers’ databases and web sites to create automated and highly-targeted product and service listings feed, which we delivered primarily into Yahoo!’s search submit product. Advertisers generally paid us a fixed price for
each click they received on an advertisement or listing included in the feed. In addition and as a supplement to feed management services, we offered campaign management services to enable our advertisers to consolidate the purchasing, management,
optimization and reporting from their search and vertical advertising campaigns across a large number of search engines, local web sites and pay-per-click networks in one central location. Under these services advertisers paid us a pre-negotiated
rate for each click they receive on their advertisement placed or managed as part of our campaign management services. Yahoo! discontinued its feed management service relationship with us effective December 31, 2009 as a result of its
partnership with Microsoft. Accordingly, we discontinued our feed management and related service offerings as of that date. We generated $7.5 million in revenues from feed management and related services for the year ended December 31, 2009.
The impact on our financial statements attributable to our ending this service is lessened by the relatively low operating margin attributable to this service given our revenue share arrangement with Yahoo! with respect thereto.
 We were incorporated in Delaware on January 17, 2003. Acquisition initiatives have played an important
part in our corporate history to date.  We currently have offices in Seattle, Washington; Las Vegas, Nevada; Billerica,
Massachusetts; and New York, New York. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Acquisition 
On April 7, 2011, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of Jingle Networks, Inc. (“Jingle”) a provider of mobile voice
search performance advertising and technology solutions in North America for the following consideration:   


 
•
 
 Approximately $15.8 million in cash, net of cash acquired, and 1,019,103 shares of the Company’s Class B common stock paid at closing; plus
  


 
•
 
 Future consideration of (i) $17.6 million, net of certain working capital adjustments on the first anniversary of the closing, and (ii) $18.0
million on the 18th month anniversary of closing, with the future consideration payable in either cash or shares of the Company’s Class B common stock or some combination to be determined by Marchex. Any shares issued in payment of the future
consideration will be increased by 5%.  Following the closing, we issued 462,247 shares of restricted stock
at an aggregate value of approximately $3.3 million to employees of Jingle, subject to vesting for up to four years.  The fair
value of the shares of Class B common stock issued as part of the consideration paid was valued at $7.6 million using the Company’s closing stock price of $7.46 per share at the acquisition date. The fair value of the future consideration
payments of $34.7 million, was determined using a rate of approximately 2% based on the Company’s incremental borrowing rate and is recorded as current deferred acquisition payments in the balance sheet. 
Consolidated Statements of Operations  The assets, liabilities and operations of our acquisitions are included in our consolidated financial statements as of the date of the respective acquisitions. 
All significant inter-company transactions and balances within Marchex have been eliminated in consolidation. Our purchase accounting
resulted in all assets and liabilities from our acquisitions being recorded at their estimated fair values on the respective acquisition dates. All goodwill, intangible assets and liabilities resulting from the acquisitions have been recorded in our
consolidated financial statements.  Presentation of Financial Reporting Periods 
The comparative periods presented are for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011. 
Revenue  We currently generate revenue through our call advertising services, pay-per-click advertising, small business solutions products which include our call and click services, proprietary web site traffic,
and historically our feed management and related services.  Our primary sources of revenue are the performance-based
advertising services, which include pay-for-call services, pay-per-click services, cost-per-action services and historically our feed management and related services. These primary sources amounted to greater than 78% of our revenues in all periods
presented. Our secondary sources of revenue are our small business solutions products which enable partner resellers to sell call advertising and/or search marketing products, campaign management services, and natural search optimization services.
These secondary sources amounted to less than 22% of our revenues in all periods presented. We have no barter transactions. 
We recognize revenue upon the completion of our performance obligation, provided that: (1) evidence of an arrangement exists;
(2) the arrangement fee is fixed and determinable; and (3) collection is reasonably assured. 
  41 


Table of Contents
In certain cases, we record revenue based on available and reported preliminary information
from third parties. Collection on the related receivables may vary from reported information based upon third party refinement of the estimated and reported amounts owing that occurs subsequent to period ends. 
Performance-Based Advertising Services  In providing call advertising services and pay-per-click advertising, we generate revenue upon our delivery of qualified and reported phone calls or click-throughs to our advertisers or advertising
service providers’ listings. These advertisers and advertising service providers pay us a designated transaction fee for each phone call or click-through, which occurs when a user makes a phone call or clicks on any of their advertisement
listings after it has been placed by us or by our distribution partners. Each phone call or click-through on an advertisement listing represents a completed transaction. The advertisement listings are displayed within our distribution network, which
includes mobile and online search engines and applications, directories, destination sites, shopping engines, third party Internet domains or web sites, our portfolio of owned web sites, other targeted Web-based content and offline sources. We also
generate revenue from cost-per-action services, which occurs when the online user is redirected from one of our web sites or a third party web site in our distribution network to an advertiser web site and completes the specified action. 
We generate revenue from reseller partners and publishers utilizing our small business solutions products to sell call advertising and/or
search marketing products. We are paid account fees and also agency fees for our products in the form of a percentage of the cost of every call or click delivered to advertisers. The reseller partners or publishers engage the advertisers and are the
primary obligor, and we, in certain instances, are only financially liable to the publishers in our capacity as a collection agency for the amount collected from the advertisers. We recognize revenue for these fees under the net revenue recognition
method. In limited arrangements resellers pay us a fee for fulfilling an advertiser’s campaign in our distribution network and we act as the primary obligor. We recognize revenue for these fees under the gross revenue recognition method.
 In providing pay-per-click contextual targeting services, advertisers purchase keywords or keyword strings, based on an
amount they choose for a targeted placement on vertically-focused web sites or specific pages of a web site that are specific to their products or services and their marketing objectives. The contextual results distributed by our services are
prioritized for users by the amount the advertiser is willing to pay each time a user clicks on the merchant’s advertisement and the relevance of the merchant’s advertisement, which is dictated by historical click-through rates.
Advertisers pay us when a click-through occurs on their advertisement.  Prior to 2010, we provided feed management services in
which advertisers pay for their Web pages and product databases to be crawled, or searched, and included in search engine, directory and product shopping engine results within our distribution network. Generally, the feed management listings are
presented in a different section of the Web page than the pay-per-click listings. For this service, revenue is generated when an online user clicks on a feed management listing from search engine, directory or product shopping engine results. Each
click-through on an advertisement listing represents a completed transaction for which the advertiser pays for on a per-click basis. The placement of a feed management result is largely determined by its relevancy, as determined by the distribution
partner. Yahoo! discontinued its feed management service relationship with us effective December 31, 2009 as a result of its partnership with Microsoft. Accordingly, we discontinued our feed management and related service offerings as of that
date.  Search Marketing Services  Advertisers pay us additional fees for services such as campaign management and natural search engine optimization. Advertisers generally pay us on a click-through basis, although in certain cases we
receive a fixed fee for delivery of these services. In some cases we also deliver banner campaigns for select advertisers. We may also charge initial set-up, account, service or inclusion fees as part of our services. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Banner advertising revenue may be based on a fixed fee per click and is generated and
recognized on click-through activity. In other cases, banner payment terms are volume-based with revenue generated and recognized when impressions are delivered.  Non-refundable account set-up fees are paid by advertisers and are recognized ratably over the longer of the term of the contract or the average expected advertiser relationship period, which generally
ranges from twelve months to more than two years. Other account and service fees are recognized in the month or period the account fee or services relate to.  Industry and Market Factors  We enter into agreements with various
mobile, online and offline distribution partners to provide distribution for pay-for-call and pay-per-click advertisement listings which contain call tracking numbers and/or URL strings of our advertisers. We generally pay distribution partners
based on a percentage of revenue or a fixed amount for each phone call or per click-through on these listings. The level of phone calls and click-throughs contributed by our distribution partners has varied, and we expect it will continue to vary,
from quarter to quarter and year to year, sometimes significantly. If we do not add new distribution partners, renew our current distribution partner agreements, replace traffic lost from terminated distribution agreements with other sources or if
our distribution partners’ search businesses do not grow or are adversely affected, our revenue and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to grow will be impacted by our ability to increase our
distribution, which impacts the number of mobile and Internet users who have access to our advertisers’ listings and the rate at which our advertisers are able to convert calls and clicks from these mobile and Internet users into completed
transactions, such as a purchase or sign up. Our ability to grow also depends on our ability to continue to increase the number of advertisers who use our services and the amount these advertisers spend on our services. 
We anticipate that these variables will fluctuate in the future, affecting our ability to grow and our financial results. In particular,
it is difficult to project the number of phone calls or click-throughs which will be delivered to our advertisers and how much advertisers will spend with us, and it is even more difficult to anticipate the average revenue per phone call or
click-through. It is also difficult to anticipate the impact of worldwide economic conditions on advertising budgets. In addition, we believe we will experience seasonality. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the
future due to seasonal fluctuations in levels of mobile and Internet usage and seasonal purchasing cycles of many advertisers. It is generally understood that during the spring and summer months, mobile and Internet usage is lower than during other
times of the year, especially in comparison to the fourth quarter of the calendar year. The extent to which usage may decrease during these off-peak periods is difficult to predict. Prolonged or severe decreases in usage during these periods may
adversely affect our growth rate and results. Additionally, the current business environment has generally resulted in advertisers and reseller partners reducing advertising and marketing services budgets or changing such budgets throughout the
year, which we expect will impact our quarterly results of operations in addition to the typical seasonality seen in our industry.  Service
Costs  Our service costs represent the cost of providing our performance-based advertising services and our search
marketing services. The service costs that we have incurred in the periods presented primarily include:   


 
•
 
 user acquisition costs;   


 
•
 
 amortization of intangible assets;   


 
•
 
 license and content fees;   


 
•
 
 credit card processing fees;   


 
•
 
 network operations;   


 
•
 
 serving our search results;   


 
•
 
 telecommunication costs, including the use of phone numbers relating to our call products and services; 
  43 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 maintaining our web sites;   


 
•
 
 domain name registration renewal fees;   


 
•
 
 network fees;   


 
•
 
 fees paid to outside service providers;   


 
•
 
 delivering customer service;   


 
•
 
 depreciation of our web sites, network equipment and internally developed software; 
 


 
•
 
 colocation service charges of our network web site equipment; 
 


 
•
 
 bandwidth and software license fees;   


 
•
 
 payroll and related expenses of related personnel; and 
 


 
•
 
 stock-based compensation of related personnel.  User Acquisition Costs  For the periods presented the largest
component of our service costs consist of user acquisition costs that relate primarily to payments made to distribution partners for access to their mobile, online, offline, or other user traffic. We enter into agreements of varying durations with
distribution partners that integrate our services into their web sites and indexes. The primary economic structure of the distribution partner agreements is a variable payment based on a specified percentage of revenue. 
 


 
•
 
 fixed payments, based on a guaranteed minimum amount of usage delivered; 
 


 
•
 
 variable payments based on a specified metric, such as number of paid phone calls or click-throughs; and 
 


 
•
 
 a combination arrangement with both fixed and variable amounts that may be paid in advance. 
We expense user acquisition costs based on whether the agreement provides for fixed or variable payments. Agreements with fixed payments
with minimum guaranteed amounts of usage are expensed as the greater of the pro-rata amount over the term of arrangement or the actual usage delivered to date based on the contractual revenue share. Agreements with variable payments based on a
percentage of revenue, number of paid phone calls, click-throughs or other metrics are expensed as incurred based on the volume of the underlying activity or revenue multiplied by the agreed-upon price or rate. 
Sales and Marketing 
Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of:   


 
•
 
 payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and sales functions; 
 


 
•
 
 advertising and promotional expenditures including online and outside marketing activities; 
 


 
•
 
 cost of systems used to sell to and serve advertisers; and 
 


 
•
 
 stock-based compensation of related personnel.  Product Development  Product development costs consist primarily of
expenses incurred in the research and development, creation and enhancement of our web sites and services.  Our research and
development expenses include:   


 
•
 
 payroll and related expenses for personnel;   


 
•
 
 costs of computer hardware and software; 
  44 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 costs incurred in developing features and functionality of the services we offer; and 
 


 
•
 
 stock-based compensation of related personnel.  For the periods presented, substantially all of our product development expenses are research and development.  Product development costs are expensed as incurred or capitalized into property and equipment in accordance with FASB ASC 350. This statement requires that costs incurred in the preliminary project
and post-implementation stages of an internal use software project be expensed as incurred and that certain costs incurred in the application development stage of a project be capitalized.  General and Administrative  General and administrative expenses consist
primarily of:   


 
•
 
 payroll and related expenses for executive and administrative personnel; 
 


 
•
 
 professional services, including accounting, legal and insurance; 
 


 
•
 
 bad debt provisions;   


 
•
 
 facilities costs;   


 
•
 
 other general corporate expenses; and   


 
•
 
 stock-based compensation of related personnel.  Stock-Based Compensation  We account for stock-based compensation under the
fair value method. As a result, stock-based compensation consists of the following:   


 
•
 
 all share-based compensation arrangements granted after January 1, 2006 (adoption date of FASB ASC 718) and for any such arrangements that are
modified, cancelled, or repurchased after that date, and   


 
•
 
 the portion of previous share-based awards for which the requisite service has not been rendered as of January 1, 2006.
 Stock-based compensation expense has been included in the same lines as compensation paid to the same
employees in the consolidated statement of operations.  Amortization of Intangibles from Acquisitions 
Amortization of intangible assets excluding goodwill relates to intangible assets identified in connection with our acquisitions.
 The intangible assets have been identified as: 
 


 
•
 
 non-competition agreements;   


 
•
 
 trademarks and Internet domain names;   


 
•
 
 distributor relationships;   


 
•
 
 advertising relationships;   


 
•
 
 patents; and   


 
•
 
 acquired technology.  These assets are amortized over useful lives ranging from 12 to 84 months. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Provision for Income Taxes  We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax law is recognized in results of operations in the period that
includes the enactment date.  Each reporting period we must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be
recovered from existing deferred tax liabilities or future taxable income, and to the extent that realization is not more likely than not, a valuation allowance must be established. The establishment of a valuation allowance and increases to
such an allowance may result in either increases to income tax expense or reduction of income tax benefit in the statement of operations. Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not, based on operating performance,
existing deferred tax liabilities, projections of future taxable income and tax planning strategies, that our net deferred tax assets, excluding certain state, city, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, will be realized. In determining that
it was more likely than not that we would realize the deferred tax assets, factors considered included: historical taxable income, historical trends related to advertiser usage rates, projected revenues and expenses, macroeconomic conditions and
issues facing our industry, existing contracts, our ability to project future results and any appreciation of our other assets. The majority of our deferred tax assets are from goodwill and intangible assets recorded in connection with various
acquisitions that are tax-deductible over 15 year periods. Based on projections of future taxable income and tax planning strategies, we expect to be able to recover these assets. The amount of the net deferred tax assets considered realizable,
however, could be reduced in the near term if our projections of future taxable income are reduced or if we do not perform at the levels we are projecting. This could result in increases to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and a
corresponding increase to income tax expense of up to the entire net amount of deferred tax assets.  From time to time,
various state, federal, and other jurisdictional tax authorities undertake reviews of us and our filings. We believe any adjustments that may ultimately be required as a result of any of these reviews will not be material to the financial
statements.  As of December 31, 2011, we have net deferred tax assets of $49.1 million, relating to the impairment
of goodwill, amortization of intangibles assets, certain other temporary differences, acquired federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, and research and development credits. Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more
likely than not that our net deferred tax assets, excluding certain state, city, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, will be realized. As of December 31, 2011, based upon both positive and negative evidence available, we have
determined it is not more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets primarily relating to net operating loss carryforwards in certain state, city, and foreign jurisdictions will be realizable and accordingly, have recorded a 100% valuation
allowance of $4.6 million against these deferred tax assets. We do not have a history of taxable income in the relevant jurisdictions and the state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards will more likely than not expire unutilized. Should
we determine in the future that we will be able to realize these deferred tax assets, or not be able to realize all or part of our remaining net deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2011, an adjustment to the net deferred tax assets
would impact net income or stockholders’ equity in the period such determination was made.  As of December 31,
2010 and 2011, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL”) of $1.7 million (excluding Jingle) which will begin to expire in 2019. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 limits the use of NOL and tax credit carryforwards in certain
situations where changes occur in the stock ownership of a company. We believe that such a change has occurred, and that approximately $1.7 million of NOL carryforwards is limited such that substantially all of these federal NOL carryforwards will
never be available. Accordingly, we have not recorded a deferred tax asset for these NOL’s. 
  46 


Table of Contents
In connection with the Jingle acquisition, the Company acquired federal net operating loss
carryforwards (“NOL”). Where there is a “change in ownership” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, the acquired federal net operating loss carryforwards are subject to an annual limitation.
The Company believes that such an ownership change had occurred at Jingle, and that the utilization of the carryforwards is limited such that the majority of the NOL carryforwards will never be utilized. Accordingly, the Company has not recorded
those amounts the Company believes it will not be able to utilize and has not included those NOL carryforwards in its deferred tax assets. The Company’s preliminary estimate of NOL carryforwards that may be utilized is approximately $7.0
million. In 2011, the Company utilized approximately $2.8 million.  Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2010 (2010) to the
year ended December 31, 2011 (2011) and comparison of the year ended December 31, 2009 (2009) to the year ended December 31, 2010 (2010).  Revenue.  The following table presents our revenues, by revenue
source, for the periods presented:   
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Partner and Other Revenue Sources
  
$
61,698
  
  
$
71,537
  
  
$
126,210
  

 Proprietary Web Site Traffic Sources
  
 
31,563
  
  
 
26,029
  
  
 
20,516
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Revenue
  
$
93,261
  
  
$
97,566
  
  
$
146,726
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 2010 to 2011  Our partner network revenues are primarily generated using third party distribution networks to deliver the pay-for-call and per-per-click advertisers’ listings. The distribution network includes
mobile and online search engine applications, directories, destination sites, shopping engines, third party Internet domains or web sites, other targeted Web-based content, mobile carriers, and offline sources. We generate revenue upon delivery of
qualified and reported phone calls or click-throughs to our advertisers or to advertising services providers’ listings. We pay a revenue share to the distribution partners to access their mobile, online, offline or other user traffic. Other
revenues include our call provisioning and call tracking services, presence management services, campaign management services, natural search optimization services and outsourced search marketing platforms. Our proprietary web site traffic revenues
are generated from our portfolio of owned web sites which are monetized with pay-for-call or pay-per-click listings that are relevant to the web sites, as well as other forms of advertising, including banner advertising. When an online user
navigates to one of our web sites and calls or clicks on a particular listing or completes the specified action, we receive a fee.  Revenue increased 50% from $97.6 million for 2010 compared to $146.7 million in 2011. The partner and other revenues increased $54.7 million due almost entirely to increased revenues from our call
advertising services, which includes approximately $17.0 million indirectly attributable to the pre-existing customers from the Jingle acquisition, and small business solutions products which in part was driven by adding tens of thousands of
national and small business accounts across our call advertising services and small business solutions product platforms and certain pricing reductions and incentives provided to AT&T in 2010. We estimated these incentives in comparison to the
prior pricing arrangement likely generated an estimated $8 million in savings to AT&T during 2010. This increase was offset by an $800,000 decrease in revenue from our pay-per-click services. 
Our proprietary web site traffic revenues decreased $5.5 million and were primarily a result of decreased revenues for cost-per-actions
from resellers related to our local search and directory web sites. In the near term, we expect lower proprietary web site traffic revenues as a result of lower budgets for cost-per-actions from resellers particularly related to our local search and
directory web sites. 
  47 


Table of Contents
2009 to 2010  Revenue was $93.3 million for 2009 compared to $97.6 million in 2010. The partner and other revenues increased $9.8 million and were affected primarily by increased revenues of $17.6 million in our call
advertising services, which in part was driven by adding more than 25,000 national and small business accounts to our platform across our small business solutions products and call advertising services. This increase was offset by a decrease in
revenue from AT&T from pricing reductions and incentives as part of an extension of our arrangement with AT&T in the second quarter of 2010 along with a decrease in revenue of $6.8 million generated from our feed management and related
services. Effective December 31, 2009 Yahoo! discontinued its feed management service relationship with us as a result of its recently announced partnership with Microsoft. Accordingly, we discontinued our feed management service offering as of
that date.  Under our primary arrangement with AT&T, we generate revenues from our small business solutions products to
sell call advertising and/or search marketing products through their existing sales channels, which are then fulfilled by us across our distribution network. We are paid account fees and also agency fees for our products in the form of a percentage
of the cost of every call or click delivered to their advertisers. In the second quarter of 2010, we signed an extension of our arrangement with AT&T through June 30, 2015 that includes certain exclusivity provisions for new advertiser
accounts and the contemplated migration of several thousand existing advertiser accounts. As part of the arrangement, we provided pricing reductions including significant pricing incentives in 2010. We estimated these incentives in comparison to the
prior arrangement pricing likely generated an estimated $8 million in savings for AT&T during 2010. Our proprietary web site traffic revenue decreased primarily due to $3.1 million in lower revenues for cost-per-actions from resellers such
as Dex One Corporation, WhitePages, Inc. and Intelius, Inc., particularly related to our local search and directory web sites. The remainder of such decrease was largely due to lower revenues from our arrangement with Yahoo! whereby we receive
payment upon click-throughs on pay-per-click listings presented on our web sites. This decrease was principally due to fewer click-throughs on pay-per-click listings from Yahoo! through the third quarter of 2010 and the expiration of our paid
listings arrangement with Yahoo! related to our web sites on September 30, 2010, although we expect to continue various other contractual arrangements with Yahoo!. We entered into a paid listings arrangement with another advertiser service
provider in the fourth quarter of 2010 which primarily offset Yahoo!’s revenue decline in such quarter.  Our ability to
maintain and grow our revenues will depend in part on maintaining and increasing the number of phone calls and click-throughs performed by users of our service through our distribution partners and proprietary web site traffic sources and
maintaining and increasing the number and volume of transactions and favorable variable payment terms with advertisers and advertising services providers, which we believe is dependent in part on marketing our Web sites and delivering high quality
traffic that ultimately results in purchases or conversions for our advertisers and advertising services providers. We may increase our direct monetization of our proprietary web site traffic sources which may not be at the same rate levels as other
advertising providers and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. If we do not add new distribution partners, renew our current distribution partner agreements or replace traffic lost from terminated distribution agreements
with other sources or if our distribution partners’ businesses do not grow or are adversely affected, our revenue and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If revenue grows and the volume of transactions and traffic
increases, we will need to expand our network infrastructure. Inefficiencies in our network infrastructure to scale and adapt to higher traffic volumes could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. 
We anticipate that these variables will fluctuate in the future, affecting our growth rate and our financial results. In particular, it
is difficult to project the number of phone calls and click-throughs which will be delivered to our advertisers and how much advertisers will spend with us, and it is even more difficult to anticipate the average revenue per phone call or
click-through. It is also difficult to anticipate the impact of worldwide economic conditions on advertising budgets. In addition, we believe we will experience seasonality. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the
future due to seasonal fluctuations in 
  48 


Table of Contents

levels of mobile and Internet usage and seasonal purchasing cycles of many advertisers. It is generally understood that during the spring and summer months, mobile and Internet usage is lower
than during other times of the year, especially in comparison to the fourth quarter of the calendar year. The extent to which usage may decrease during these off-peak periods is difficult to predict. Prolonged or severe decreases in usage during
these periods may adversely affect our growth rate and results.  Expenses 
Expenses were as follows (in thousands):   




























 
  
Twelve months ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
  
%revenue
 
 
2010
 
  
%revenue
 
 
2011
 
  
%revenue
 

 Service costs
  
$
47,633
  
  
 
51
% 
 
$
57,557
  
  
 
59
% 
 
$
81,835
  
  
 
56
% 

 Sales and marketing
  
 
17,890
  
  
 
19
% 
 
 
13,530
  
  
 
14
% 
 
 
15,434
  
  
 
11
% 

 Product development
  
 
14,478
  
  
 
16
% 
 
 
16,804
  
  
 
17
% 
 
 
22,794
  
  
 
16
% 

 General and administrative
  
 
16,049
  
  
 
17
% 
 
 
17,507
  
  
 
18
% 
 
 
22,709
  
  
 
15
% 

 Amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions
  
 
5,493
  
  
 
6
% 
 
 
2,729
  
  
 
3
% 
 
 
5,455
  
  
 
4
% 

 Acquisition related costs
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0
% 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
0
% 
 
 
1,890
  
  
 
1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
101,543
  
  
 
109
% 
 
$
108,127
 
  
 
111
% 
 
$
150,117
  
  
 
103
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We follow FASB ASC 718 and record stock-based compensation expense under the fair value method.
In 2011, we recorded $15.1 million of stock-based compensation expense as compared to $10.8 million in 2010 and $9.6 million in 2009. This stock-based compensation expense has been included in the same lines as compensation paid to the same
employees in the consolidated statement of operations.  Stock-based compensation expense was included in the following
operating expense categories as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Twelve months ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Service costs
  
$
474
  
  
$
805
  
  
$
1,291
  

 Sales and marketing
  
 
1,400
  
  
 
799
  
  
 
1,505
  

 Product development
  
 
592
  
  
 
1,015
  
  
 
1,416
  

 General and administrative
  
 
7,131
  
  
 
8,213
  
  
 
10,931
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total stock-based compensation
  
$
9,597
  
  
$
10,832
  
  
$
15,143
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 See Note 7 (b)—“Stock Option Plan” of the consolidated financial statements as well as our
Critical Accounting Policies for additional information about stock-based compensation.  Service Costs. Service costs
increased 42%, from $57.6 million in 2010 to $81.8 million in 2011. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in distribution partner payments, fees paid to outside service providers, personnel costs, stock-based compensation, facility
costs, communication and network costs, travel, and depreciation totaling $24.6 million, partially offset primarily by a decrease in Internet domain amortization of $333,000. These increases are also related to the incremental revenues as a result
of the Jingle acquisition and the related operating activities. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Service costs increased 21% from $47.6 million in 2009 to $57.6 million in 2010. The
increase was primarily attributable to an increase in distribution partner payments, fees paid to outside service providers, personnel costs, stock-based compensation, facility costs, communication and network costs, travel, and depreciation
totaling $10.5 million, partially offset primarily by a decrease in Internet domain amortization and credit card processing fees of $533,000.  Service costs represented 56% of revenue in 2011 compared to 59% in 2010 and 51% in 2009. The 2011 decrease as a percentage of revenue in service costs compared to 2010 was primarily a result of certain
pricing reductions and incentives as part of an extension of our arrangement with AT&T in the second quarter of 2010. The 2010 increase as a percentage of revenue in service costs as compared to 2009 was primarily a result of an increase in the
proportion of revenue attributable to our pay-for-call or cost-per-action services for which there are related distribution partner payments, the effect of pricing reductions and pricing incentives to AT&T, and to a lesser extent an increase in
communication and network costs. Payments to pay-for -call, pay-per-click, and cost-per-action partners account for higher user acquisition costs as a percentage of revenue relative to our overall service cost percentage. 
We expect that user acquisition costs and revenue shares to distribution partners are likely to increase prospectively given the
competitive landscape for distribution partners. To the extent that payments to pay-for-call, pay-per-click or cost-per-action distribution partners make up a larger percentage of future operations, or the addition or renewal of existing
distribution partner agreements are on terms less favorable to us, we expect that service costs will increase as a percentage of revenue. To the extent of revenue declines in these areas, we expect revenue shares to distribution partners to decrease
in absolute dollars. Our proprietary web site traffic revenues have a lower service cost as a percentage of revenue relative to our overall service cost percentage. Our proprietary web site traffic revenues have no corresponding distribution partner
payments. To the extent our proprietary web site traffic revenues make up a larger percentage of our future operations, we expect that service costs will decrease as a percentage of revenue. We expect with an increase in the proportion of partner
and other revenue sources and additional investment in our network, service costs will increase as a percentage of revenue in the near term. We also expect that in the longer term service costs will increase in absolute dollars as a result of costs
associated with the expansion of our operations and network infrastructure as we scale and adapt to increases in the volume of transactions and traffic and invest in our platforms. 
Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased 14% from $13.5 million in 2010 to $15.4 million in 2011. As a
percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses were 14% and 11% for 2010 and 2011, respectively. The net increase in dollars was related primarily to increases in personnel and stock-based compensation costs related to the Jingle acquisition
partially offset by a decrease in online and outside marketing activities. The 2011 decrease as a percentage of revenue in sales and marketing expenses was primarily a result of revenues increasing at a greater rate when compared to the increase in
sales and marketing expenses. We expect some volatility in sales and marketing expenses based on the timing of marketing initiatives but expect sales and marketing expenses in the near term to be relatively similar in absolute dollars. We expect
that sales and marketing expenses will increase in connection with any revenue increase to the extent that we also increase our marketing activities and correspondingly could increase as a percentage of revenue. 
Sales and marketing expenses decreased 24% from $17.9 million in 2009 to $13.5 million in 2010. As a percentage of revenue, sales
and marketing expenses were 19% and 14% for 2009 and 2010, respectively. The net decrease in dollars and percentage of revenue was related primarily to a decrease in online and outside marketing activities and stock-based compensation. 
Product Development. Product development expenses increased 36% from $16.8 million in 2010 to $22.8 million in 2011. The increase
in dollars was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation of $5.0 million partially related to the Jingle acquisition. As a percentage of revenue, product development expenses were 17% and 16% in 2010 and 2011,
respectively. The 2011 decrease as a percentage of revenue in product development expense as compared to 2010 was primarily a result of revenues increasing at a greater rate when compared to the increase in product development costs. We expect
product development 
  50 


Table of Contents

expenditures in the near term to be relatively stable in absolute dollars. In the longer term, we expect that product development expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we increase the
number of personnel and consultants to enhance our service offerings and as a result of additional stock-based compensation expense.  Product development expenses increased 16% from $14.5 million in 2009 to $16.8 million in 2010. The increase in dollars was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation of
$2.9 million. As a percentage of revenue, product development expenses were 16% and 17% in 2009 and 2010, respectively. The 2010 increase as a percentage of revenue in product development expense as compared to 2009 was primarily a result of an
increase in the proportion of personnel costs and stock-based compensation relative to revenue.  General and
Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased 30%, from $17.5 million in 2010 to $22.7 million in 2011. The increase in dollars was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation related primarily to
the Jingle acquisition. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses were 18% and 15% in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The 2011 decrease as a percentage of revenue in general and administrative expenses was primarily a result of
revenues increasing at a greater rate when compared to the general and administrative expenses. We expect our general and administrative expenses to be relatively stable in the near term. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will
increase in the longer term to the extent that we expand our operations and incur additional costs in connection with being a public company, including expenses related to professional fees and insurance, and as a result of stock-based compensation
expense. We also expect fluctuations in our general and administrative expenses to the extent the recognition timing of stock-based compensation is impacted by market conditions relating to our stock price. 
General and administrative expenses increased 9%, from $16.0 million in 2009 to $17.5 million in 2010. The increase in dollars was
primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation, personnel costs, fees paid to outside service providers, and bad debt expense of $1.9 million offset by a decrease in facility and other operating costs of $487,000. As a percentage of
revenue, general and administrative expenses were 17% and 18% in 2009 and 2010, respectively.  Amortization of Intangible
Assets from Acquisitions. Intangible amortization expense increased from $2.7 million in 2010 to $5.5 million in 2011. The increase was associated with amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Jingle acquisition in April 2011 offset
partially by certain intangible assets from prior acquisitions being fully amortized. During 2011, the amortization of intangibles related to service costs, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. 
Intangible amortization expense decreased 50%, from $5.5 million in 2009 to $2.7 million in 2010. The decrease was associated with
certain intangible assets from acquisitions being fully amortized. During 2010, the amortization of intangibles related to service costs.  Our purchase accounting resulted in all assets and liabilities from our acquisitions being recorded at their estimated fair values on their respective acquisition dates. All goodwill, identifiable
intangible assets and liabilities resulting from our acquisitions have been recorded in our financial statements. The identified intangible assets acquired in the Jingle acquisition are $12.0 million and are being amortized over a range of useful
lives of 12 to 36 months. Events and circumstances considered in determining whether the carrying value of amortizable intangible assets and goodwill may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to: significant changes in performance relative
to expected operating results; significant changes in the use of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends; or a significant decline in the Company’s stock price and/or market capitalization for a sustained period of time.
 No impairment of the Company’s intangible assets have been identified in 2011. The current business environment is
subject to evolving market conditions and requires significant management judgment to interpret the potential impact to our assumptions. To the extent that changes in the current business environment impact

  51 


Table of Contents

the Company’s ability to achieve levels of forecasted operating results and cash flows, or should other events occur indicating the remaining carrying value of our assets might be impaired,
the Company would test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment and may recognize an additional impairment loss to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds such assets’ fair values. 
Acquisition related costs. Acquisition related costs of $1.9 million were primarily for professional fees to perform due
diligence, historical audits in connection with regulatory filings and other procedures associated with our acquisition of Jingle in April 2011. Of the $1.9 million of acquisition related costs, we recognized approximately $372,000 for the future
obligations of non-cancelable lease and other costs related to the Jingle office. The portion related to the non-cancelable lease is based on estimates of vacancy period and sublease income. The actual vacancy periods may differ from these
estimates, and sublease income, if any, may not materialize. Accordingly, these estimates may be adjusted in future periods. 
Gain on sales and disposals of intangible assets, net. The gain on sales and disposals of intangible assets, net was $9.4 million
in 2011 and was attributable to the sales and disposals of Internet domain names and other intangible assets. The gain on sales and disposals of intangible assets, net was $4.7 million and $6.8 million in 2009 and 2010, respectively. 
Other income (expense), net. Other income (expense), net were $129,000 and ($458,000) in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The net
increase in other income (expense), net during 2011 was primarily due to accretion of interest expense related to the future consideration for the Jingle acquisition.  Other income (expense), net were ($17,000) and $129,000 in 2009 and 2010, respectively. The net increase in other income (expense), net during 2010 was primarily due to cash received related to a
settlement agreement.  Income Taxes. The income tax benefit in 2010 was $617,000 compared to an income tax expense of
$2.6 million in 2011. In 2010, the effective tax rate benefit of 17% differed from the expected effective tax rate of 35% due to state income taxes, non-deductible stock-based compensation related to restricted stock and incentive stock options
recorded under the fair-value method, other non-deductible amounts and an adjustment for the research and experimentation credit for 2010. In 2011, the effective tax rate of 47% differed from the expected effective tax rate of 35% due to state
income taxes, non-deductible stock-based compensation related to restricted stock and incentive stock options recorded under the fair-value method, acquisition related costs related to the Jingle acquisition, non-cash accretion of interest expense,
and other non-deductible amounts. In addition, we recorded $362,000 of income tax benefit associated with our federal return audits for years 2005 through 2009.  The income tax benefit in 2009 was $1.5 million compared to $617,000 in 2010. In 2009, we completed an analysis and recorded an adjustment totaling $1.3 million to reflect updated filings for research and
experimentation credits for the period 2005 through 2009. In addition, our effective tax rate benefit of 43% differed from the expected effective tax rate of 35% due to the research and experimentation credit, partially offset by restricted stock
and incentive stock options recorded under the fair-value method, state income taxes, and other non-deductible amounts. 
During 2009, 2010 and 2011, we recognized excess tax benefits (deficits) on stock option exercises, restricted stock vesting, and
dividends paid on unvested restricted stock of approximately ($1.8) million, ($537,000), and $913,000, respectively, which were recorded to additional paid in capital.  Net Income (Loss). Net income (loss) increased from a net loss of $3.0 million in 2010 to net income of $3.0 million in 2011. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in revenues and
gains on sales of intangible assets, offset partially by operating costs increases and acquisition related costs of $1.9 million for 2011in which there were no comparable costs in 2010. Income tax expense of $2.6 million recorded in 2011 further
offset the increase in revenues. The Jingle acquisition also resulted in increased revenues and operating costs. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Net loss increased from $2.1 million in 2009 to $3.0 million in 2010. The increase was
primarily attributable to an income tax benefit of $1.5 million in 2009 compared to $617,000 in 2010. The increase was also a result of operating cost increases in distribution partner payments, communication and network costs, personnel costs and
stock-based compensation, and revenue impacts due to pricing reductions and incentives to AT&T. This was offset by lower online and outside marketing costs and higher gain on sales and disposals of intangible assets. 
Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)  The following tables set forth our unaudited quarterly results of operations data for the eight most recent quarters ended December 31, 2011. The information in the tables below should be read in
conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. We have prepared this information on the same basis as the consolidated financial statements and the information includes all
adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that we consider necessary for a fair statement of our financial position and operating results for the quarters or other periods presented. Our quarterly operating results have varied
substantially in the past and may vary substantially in the future. You should not draw any conclusions about our future results from the results of operations for any particular quarter or period presented. 
 




































 (in thousands)
  
Quarter Ended
 

  
Mar 31,2010
 
 
June 30,2010
 
 
Sept 30,2010
 
 
Dec 31,2010
 
 
Mar 31,2011
 
 
June 30,2011
 
 
Sept 30,2011
 
 
Dec 31,2011
 

 Consolidated Statement of Operations:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Revenue
  
$
24,002
  
 
$
21,394
  
 
$
24,195
  
 
$
27,975
  
 
$
29,080
  
 
$
38,761
  
 
$
39,862
  
 
$
39,023
  

 Expenses:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Service costs (1)
  
 
12,649
  
 
 
13,656
  
 
 
14,604
  
 
 
16,648
  
 
 
16,672
  
 
 
21,701
  
 
 
21,848
  
 
 
21,614
  

 Sales and marketing (1)
  
 
3,911
  
 
 
3,511
  
 
 
3,183
  
 
 
2,925
  
 
 
2,695
  
 
 
3,933
  
 
 
4,547
  
 
 
4,259
  

 Product development (1)
  
 
3,962
  
 
 
4,326
  
 
 
4,194
  
 
 
4,322
  
 
 
4,889
  
 
 
5,937
  
 
 
6,132
  
 
 
5,836
  

 General and administrative (1)
  
 
3,837
  
 
 
4,289
  
 
 
4,684
  
 
 
4,697
  
 
 
5,155
  
 
 
6,139
  
 
 
5,860
  
 
 
5,555
  

 Acquisition related costs
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
402
  
 
 
1,049
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
377
  

 Amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions
(2)
  
 
705
  
 
 
711
  
 
 
704
  
 
 
609
  
 
 
464
  
 
 
1,620
  
 
 
1,672
  
 
 
1,699
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
25,064
  
 
 
26,493
  
 
 
27,369
  
 
 
29,201
  
 
 
30,277
  
 
 
40,379
  
 
 
40,121
  
 
 
39,340
  

 Gain on sales and disposals of intangible assets, net
  
 
1,327
  
 
 
690
  
 
 
2,633
  
 
 
2,122
  
 
 
1,913
  
 
 
2,712
  
 
 
2,487
  
 
 
2,309
  

 Income (loss) from operations
  
 
265
  
 
 
(4,409
) 
 
 
(541
) 
 
 
896
  
 
 
716
  
 
 
1,094
  
 
 
2,228
  
 
 
1,992
  

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest income
  
 
19
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  

 Interest and line of credit expense
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(183
) 
 
 
(198
) 
 
 
(197
) 

 Other
  
 
2
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
7
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
37
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
102
  
 
 
(174
) 
 
 
(196
) 
 
 
(190
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes
  
 
260
  
 
 
(4,372
) 
 
 
(439
) 
 
 
891
  
 
 
818
  
 
 
920
  
 
 
2,032
  
 
 
1,802
  

 Income tax expense (benefit) 
  
 
328
  
 
 
(1,245
) 
 
 
54
  
 
 
246
  
 
 
242
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
778
  
 
 
814
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
(68
) 
 
 
(3,127
) 
 
 
(493
) 
 
 
645
  
 
 
576
  
 
 
141
  
 
 
1,254
  
 
 
988
  

 Dividends paid to participating securities
  
 
(44
) 
 
 
(48
) 
 
 
(55
) 
 
 
(52
) 
 
 
(63
) 
 
 
(61
) 
 
 
(67
) 
 
 
(68
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(112
) 
 
$
(3,175
) 
 
$
(548
) 
 
$
593
  
 
$
513
  
 
$
80
  
 
$
1,187
  
 
$
920
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

   (1)    Excludes amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions  
(2)    Components of amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions:
 
        

        

 Service costs
  
$
705
  
 
$
711
  
 
$
704
  
 
$
609
  
 
$
464
  
 
$
1,314
  
 
$
1,359
  
 
$
1,378
  

 Sales and marketing
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
298
  
 
 
307
 

 General and administrative
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
14
 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
705
  
 
$
711
  
 
$
704
  
 
$
609
  
 
$
464
  
 
$
1,620
  
 
$
1,672
  
 
$
1,699
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  53 


Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
As of December 31, 2010 and 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $37.3 million and $37.4 million, respectively. As of
December 31, 2011, we had current and long term contractual obligations of $56.8 million of which $35.6 million is for deferred payments related to the Jingle acquisition, which are to be paid in cash or shares of Class B common stock or
combination of both at Marchex’s option, and $14.0 million is for rent under our facility operating leases.  Cash
provided by operating activities primarily consists of a net income (loss) adjusted for certain non-cash items such as amortization and depreciation, deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation, excess tax benefit related to stock-based
compensation, acquisition related costs, accretion of interest, gain on sale of intangible assets net, and changes in working capital.  Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 of approximately $16.8 million consisted primarily of net income of $3.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of $27.6
million, including depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, allowance for doubtful accounts and advertiser credits, stock-based compensation, acquisition related costs, excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation, and deferred
income taxes, gain on sales and disposals of intangible and fixed assets, net of $9.4 million and $4.3 million used for working capital and other activities, which is net of cash received of $204,000 related to a lease incentive. Cash provided by
operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 of approximately $9.4 million consisted primarily of net loss of $3.0 million adjusted for non-cash items of $21.9 million, including depreciation, amortization of intangible assets,
allowance for doubtful accounts and advertiser credits, stock-based compensation, and deferred income taxes, gain on sales and disposals of intangible and fixed assets, net of $6.8 million and approximately $2.6 million used for working capital and
other activities which is net of cash received of $779,000 related to a lease incentive. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 of approximately $17.1 million consisted primarily of a net loss of $2.1 million
adjusted for non-cash items of $26.4 million, including depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, allowance for doubtful accounts and advertiser credits, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes and excess income tax benefit related to
stock options, gain on sales and disposals of intangible and fixed assets, net of $4.7 million and approximately $2.5 million used in working capital and other activities.  With respect to a significant portion of our pay-for call and pay-per-click advertising services, the amount payable to the distribution partners will be calculated at the end of a calendar month, with a
payment period following the delivery of the phone calls or click-throughs. We generally receive payment from advertisers in close proximity or in some cases prior to the timing of the corresponding payments to the distribution partners who provide
placement for the listings. These services constituted the majority of revenue in 2009, 2010 and 2011. In certain cases, payments to distribution partners are paid in advance or are fixed in advance based on a guaranteed minimum amount of usage
delivered. We have no corresponding payments to distribution partners related to our proprietary web site traffic revenues. 
Nearly all of the reseller partner arrangements are billed on a monthly basis following the month of our phone call or click-through
delivery. This payment structure results in our advancement of monies to the distribution partners who have provided the corresponding placements of the listings. For these services, reseller partner payments are generally received two to four weeks
following payment to the distribution partners. We expect that in the future periods, if the amounts from our reseller partner arrangements account for a greater percentage of our operating activity, working capital requirements will increase as a
result.  We have payment arrangements with reseller partners particularly related to our proprietary web site traffic sources
or our small business solutions products, such as AT&T, SuperMedia Inc., Yellowbook USA Inc., The Cobalt Group, and Yellow Media Inc., whereby we receive payment between 30 and 60 days following the delivery of services. For the year and as of
December 31, 2011 amounts from these partners totaled 46% of revenue and $15.6 million in accounts receivable. Based on the timing of payments, we generally have this level 
  54 


Table of Contents

of amounts in outstanding accounts receivable at any given time from these partners. There can be no assurances that these partners or other advertisers will not experience further financial
difficulty, curtail operations, reduce or eliminate spend budgets, delay payments or otherwise forfeit balances owed. Net accounts receivable balances outstanding at December 31, 2011 from AT&T totaled $11.3 million. 
SuperMedia and Dex One and its subsidiaries consummated reorganizations under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code during 2009.
SuperMedia and Dex One accounted for $2.8 million and $1.1 million of revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009. We did not recognize an aggregate of $1.6 million in revenue related to services delivered to SuperMedia and Dex
One for the year ended December 31, 2009 in light of collectability considerations and we did not recognize such amounts in 2010 based on the terms of their plans of reorganization. 
Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 of approximately $10.4 million was
primarily attributable to the cash paid at closing of $15.8 million related to the Jingle acquisition, and purchases for property and equipment of $4.0 million which were partially offset by proceeds from the sales of intangible assets of
approximately $9.5 million. In April 2011, we acquired Jingle in which $15.8 million, net of cash acquired, was paid at closing. The acquisition includes deferred acquisition payments of $17.6 million and $18.0 million to be paid in cash or shares
of Class B common stock or a combination of both at the Marchex’s option on the 12th and 18th
month anniversaries of closing. Any deferred acquisition payments paid in shares will be increased by 5%. Cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 of approximately $3.2 million was primarily attributable to
proceeds from the sales of intangible assets of approximately $6.8 million which were primarily offset by net purchases for property and equipment of $3.4 million. Cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 of
approximately $2.5 million was primarily attributable to proceeds from the sales of intangible assets of approximately $4.9 million primarily offset by net purchases for property and equipment of $2.4 million. 
We expect property and equipment purchases will increase as we continue to invest in equipment and software. To the extent our operations
increase, we expect to increase expenditures for our systems and personnel. We expect our expenditures for product development initiatives and internally developed software will increase in the longer term in absolute dollars as our development
activities accelerate and we increase the number of personnel and consultants to enhance our service offerings.  Cash used in
financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 of approximately $6.3 million was primarily attributable to the repurchase of 883,000 shares of Class B common stock for treasury stock totaling approximately $6.2 million and common
stock dividend payments of $2.9 million, partially offset by net proceeds of approximately $1.8 million from the sale of stock through employee stock options and employee stock plan purchases and $1.0 million from excess tax benefit related to
stock-based compensation. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 of approximately $8.9 million was primarily attributable to the repurchase of 1.2 million shares of Class B common stock for treasury stock
totaling approximately $6.5 million and common stock dividend payments of $2.8 million offset by net proceeds of approximately $399,000 from the sale of stock through employee stock options and employee stock plan purchases and $36,000 of excess tax
benefits related to stock-based compensation. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 of approximately $13.5 million was primarily attributable to the repurchase of 2.8 million shares of Class B common stock
for treasury stock totaling approximately $10.7 million, and common stock dividend payments of $2.9 million, partially offset by net proceeds of approximately $131,000 from the sale of stock through employee stock options and employee stock plan
purchases and $69,000 of excess tax benefits related to stock options. 
  55 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011, and
the effect these obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods.   
























 In thousands
  
Total
 
  
Less than 
1year
 
  
1-3 years
 
  
4-5 years
 
  
thereafter
 

 Contractual Obligations:
  



  



  



  



  




 Operating leases
  
$
14,049
  
  
$
2,124
  
  
$
4,523
  
  
$
4,492
  
  
$
2,910
  

 Other contractual obligations (3),
  
 
42,770
  
  
$
39,040
  
  
 
2,644
  
  
 
1,086
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total contractual obligations (1), (2)
  
$
56,819
  
  
$
41,164
  
  
$
7,167
  
  
$
5,578
  
  
$
2,910
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 In February 2005 we entered into a license agreement with an advertising partner which provides for a contingent royalty based on a discounted rate of
3% (3.75% under certain circumstances) of certain of our gross revenues payable on a quarterly basis through December 2016. The royalty payment is recognized as incurred in service costs and is not included in the above schedule.



(2) 
 Our tax contingencies of approximately $305,000 are not included due to their uncertainty. 


(3) 
 Includes deferred acquisition payments of $17.6 million and 18.0 million to be paid in cash or shares of Class B common stock or a combination of
both option on the 12th and 18th month anniversaries of closing related to the Jingle acquisition.
Any deferred acquisition payments paid in shares will be increased by 5%. These deferred acquisition payments are recorded on the balance sheet as short term liabilities. 
We anticipate that we will need to invest working capital towards the development and expansion of our overall operations. We may also
make a significant number of acquisitions, which could result in the reduction of our cash balances or the incurrence of debt. Furthermore, we expect that capital expenditures may increase in future periods, particularly if our operating activity
increases.  We are evaluating potential strategic alternatives for certain assets including certain pay-per-click products and
web sites, with a goal of further focusing on the products and opportunities that can drive business growth. This evaluation may lead to divestures, which may result in cash proceeds in the near term but could also impact future operating cash
flows. On April 1, 2008, we entered into a three year credit agreement which provides us with a $30 million senior
secured revolving credit line, which may be used for various corporate purposes including financing permitted acquisitions, subject to compliance with applicable covenants. During the first quarter of 2011, we signed an amendment to the credit
agreement which extended the maturity period through to April 1, 2014 and increases the applicable margin rate by 25 basis points. As of December 31, 2011, we had $30 million of availability under the credit agreement. 
In November 2006, our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase up to 3 million shares of our Class B
common stock as well as the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend for the holders of the Class A common stock and Class B common stock. During 2008 and 2009, our board of directors authorized various increase in the share repurchase program
to repurchase up to 11 million shares in the aggregate (less shares previously purchased under the share repurchase program). In December 2011, our board of directors authorized an increase in the share repurchase program to repurchase up to
12 million shares in the aggregate (less shares previously repurchased under the share repurchase program) of our Class B common stock. Under the share repurchase program, repurchases may take place in the open market and in privately
negotiated transactions and at times and in such amounts as we deem appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements, capital availability, and
other market conditions. This share repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be expanded, limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. During the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, approximately
1.2 million and 883,000 shares of Class B common stock, respectively, were repurchased under the share purchase program. In 2012, we have repurchased approximately 136,000 shares of Class B common stock to date. 
The quarterly cash dividend was initiated at $0.02 per share of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. For 2010, quarterly
dividends were paid on February 15, May 17, August 16 and November 15 to Class A 
  56 


Table of Contents

and Class B common stockholders of record as of the close of business of February 4, May 5, August 6 and November 5, respectively. Total dividends paid in 2010 were
approximately $2.8 million. For 2011, quarterly dividends were paid on February 15, May 16, August 15 and November 15 to Class A and Class B common stockholders of record as of the close of business of February 4,
May 6, August 5 and November 5, respectively. Total dividends paid in 2011 were approximately $2.9 million. Although we expect that the annual cash dividend, subject to capital availability, will be $0.08 per common share or
approximately $3.0 million for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at such a rate or at all. Under Delaware law, dividends to stockholders may be made only from the surplus of a company, or, in
certain situations, from the net profits for the current fiscal year before the dividend is declared by the board of directors. 
On May 6, 2011, a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 174016) relating to the resale of 1,019,103 shares of
our Class B common stock by certain selling stockholders with S-3 registration rights granted in connection with the Jingle acquisition was filed the SEC. This Registration Statement on Form S-3 was declared effective by the SEC on
August 24, 2011. We will not receive any proceeds in connection with these sales by selling stockholders.  Based on
our operating plans we believe that our existing credit availability, resources and cash flow provided by ongoing operations, will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least twelve months. Additional equity and debt financing may be needed to
support our acquisition strategy, our long-term obligations and our Company’s needs. If additional financing is necessary, it may not be available; and if it is available, it may not be possible for us to obtain financing on satisfactory terms.
Failure to generate sufficient revenue or raise additional capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern and to achieve our intended business objectives. 
Critical Accounting Policies  The policies below are critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. In the ordinary course of business, we make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to
the reporting of our results.  Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared using accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and the related disclosures of
contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values
of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  Our critical accounting policies relate to the following matters and are described below:   


 
•
 
 Revenue;   


 
•
 
 Goodwill and intangible assets;   


 
•
 
 Stock-based compensation;   


 
•
 
 Allowance for doubtful accounts and advertiser credits; and 
 


 
•
 
 Provision for income taxes.  Revenue  We currently generate revenue through our operating
businesses by delivering call and click-based advertising products that enable advertisers of all sizes to reach consumers across online, mobile and offline sources. The primary revenue driver has been performance-based advertising, which includes
pay-for-call 
  57 


Table of Contents

advertising, pay-per-click advertising, and cost-per-action services. For pay-for-call and pay-per-click advertising, revenue is recognized upon delivery of qualified and reported phone calls or
click-throughs to our advertisers or advertising service providers’ listing which occurs when an online, mobile or offline user makes a phone call or clicks on any of their advertisements after it has been placed by us or by our distribution
partners. Each phone call or click-through on an advertisement listing represents a completed transaction. For cost-per-action services, revenue is recognized when the online user is redirected from one of our web sites or a third party web site in
our distribution network to an advertiser web site and completes the specified action. In certain cases, we record revenue based on available and reported preliminary information from third parties. Collection on the related receivables may vary
from reported information based upon third party refinement of the estimated and reported amounts owing that occurs subsequent to period ends.  We have entered into agreements with various distribution partners in order to expand our distribution network, which includes mobile and online search engines and applications, directories, shopping
engines, third party Internet domains or web sites, other targeted Web-based content, offline sources, and our portfolio of owned web sites, on which we include our advertisers’ listings. We generally pay distribution partners based on a
specified percentage of revenue or a fixed amount per phone call or click-through on these listings. We act as the primary obligor in these transactions, and we are responsible for providing customer and administrative services to the advertiser. In
accordance with FASB ASC 605, the revenue derived from advertisers who receive paid introductions through us as supplied by distribution partners is reported gross based upon the amounts received from the advertiser. We also recognize revenue
for certain agency contracts with advertisers under the net revenue recognition method. Under these specific agreements, we purchase listings on behalf of advertisers from search engines and directories. We are paid account fees and also agency fees
based on the total amount of the purchase made on behalf of these advertisers. Under these agreements, our advertisers are primarily responsible for choosing the publisher and determining pricing, and the Company, in certain instances, is only
financially liable to the publisher for the amount collected from our advertisers. This creates a sequential liability for media purchases made on behalf of advertisers. In certain instances, the web publishers engage the advertisers directly and we
are paid an agency fee based on the total amount of the purchase made by the advertiser. In limited arrangements resellers pay us a fee for fulfilling an advertiser’s campaign in our distribution network and we act as the primary obligor. We
recognize revenue for these fees under the gross revenue recognition method.  We apply FASB ASC 605 to account for revenue
arrangements with multiple deliverables. FASB ASC 605 addresses certain aspects of accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which the vendor will perform multiple revenue-generating activities. When an arrangement involves multiple elements,
the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each respective element based on its relative fair value and recognized when revenue recognition criteria for each element are met. Fair value for each element is established based on the sales
price charged when the same element is sold separately.  Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in
business combinations accounted for under the purchase method.  We apply the provisions of FASB ASC 350 “Goodwill and
Intangible Assets” acquired in a purchase business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC 350. FASB
ASC 350 also requires that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed for impairment in accordance with FASB ASC 360. 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the
asset might be impaired. Events and circumstances considered in determining whether the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to: significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results;
significant changes in the use of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends; and a significant decline in the Company’s stock price and/or market 
  58 


Table of Contents

capitalization for a sustained period of time. If our stock price were to trade below book value per share for a extended period of time and/or we continue to experience adverse effects of a
continued downward trend in the overall economic environment, changes in the business itself, including changes in projected earnings and cash flows, we may have to recognize an impairment of all or some portion of our goodwill. An impairment loss
is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. If the fair value is lower than the carrying value, a material impairment charge may be reported in our financial results. We exercise judgment in the
assessment of the related useful lives of intangible assets, the fair values and the recoverability. In certain instances, the fair value is determined in part based on cash flow forecasts and discount rate estimates. We review our long-lived assets
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be recoverable. To the extent such evaluation indicates that the useful lives of intangible assets are different than originally
estimated, the amortization period is reduced or extended and, accordingly, amortization expense is increased or decreased. Recoverability of assets held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset group to estimated
undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset group. If such asset group is considered to be impaired, the impairment is to be recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds fair value. Assets to
be disposed of are separately presented on the balance sheet and reported at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of
goodwill or other intangible assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
 No impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets have been identified in 2009, 2010 or 2011. The current business
environment is subject to evolving market conditions and requires significant management judgment to interpret the potential impact to our assumptions. To the extent that changes in the current business environment impact our ability to achieve
levels of forecasted operating results and cash flows, or should other events occur indicating the remaining carrying value of our assets might be impaired, we would test our intangible assets for impairment and may recognize an additional
impairment loss to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds such asset’s fair value.  Any future additional impairment
charges or changes to the estimated amortization periods could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
Stock-Based Compensation  FASB ASC 718 requires the measurement and recognition of compensation for all stock-based awards made to employees, non-employees and directors including stock options, restricted stock issuances, and
restricted stock units based on estimated fair values. Under the fair value recognition provisions, we recognize stock-based compensation net of an estimated forfeiture rate, and therefore only recognize compensation cost for those shares expected
to vest over the requisite service period.  We generally use the Black-Scholes option pricing model as our method of valuation
for stock-based awards with time-based vesting. Our determination of the fair value of stock-based awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex
and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to the expected life of the award, our expected stock price, volatility over the term of the award and actual and projected exercise behaviors. For stock-based awards with
time-based vesting, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and only recognize expense for those shares expected to vest. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical experience of our stock-based awards that are granted,
exercised and cancelled. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, the stock-based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. 
During 2011, we issued equity awards of stock options and restricted stock units in three separate tranches that have vesting based on a
combination of certain service and market conditions. For equity awards with 
  59 


Table of Contents

vesting based on a combination of certain service and market conditions, we factor an estimated probability of achieving certain service and market conditions and recognize compensation cost over
the requisite service period of the award. We used a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value for each tranche and a Monte Carlo simulation to determine the derived service period for each tranche. 
Although the fair value of stock-based awards is determined in accordance with FASB ASC 718, the assumptions used in calculating fair
value of stock-based awards, the use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model, and the use of the binomial lattice model and a Monte Carlo simulation are highly subjective, and other reasonable assumptions could provide differing results. As a
result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. See Note 7 (b)—“Stock Option Plan” in the consolidated financial statements for additional
information.  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts and Advertiser Credits 
Accounts receivable balances are presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts and advertiser credits. The allowance for doubtful
accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our accounts receivable. We determine our allowance based on analysis of historical bad debts, advertiser concentrations, advertiser creditworthiness and current economic
trends. We review the allowance for collectability on a quarterly basis. Account balances are written off against the allowance after all reasonable means of collection have been exhausted and the potential recovery is considered remote. If the
financial condition of our advertisers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, or if we underestimated the allowances required, additional allowances may be required which would result in increased general
and administrative expenses in the period such determination was made.  We determine our allowance for advertiser credits and
adjustments based upon our analysis of historical credits. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of our revenue for any period if our management made different judgments and estimates. 
Provision for Income Taxes  We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax law is recognized in results of operations in the period that
includes the enactment date.  Each reporting period we must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be
recovered from existing deferred tax liabilities or future taxable income, and to the extent that realization is not more likely than not, a valuation allowance must be established. The establishment of a valuation allowance and increases to
such an allowance may result in either increases to income tax expense or reduction of income tax benefit in the statement of operations. Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not, based on operating performance,
existing deferred tax liabilities, projections of future taxable income and tax planning strategies, that our net deferred tax assets, excluding certain state, city, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, will be realized. In determining that
it was more likely than not that we would realize the deferred tax assets, factors considered included: historical taxable income, historical trends related to advertiser usage rates, projected revenues and expenses, macroeconomic conditions and
issues facing our industry, existing contracts, our ability to project future results and any appreciation of our other assets. The majority of our deferred tax assets are from goodwill and intangible assets recorded in connection with various
acquisitions that are tax-deductible over 15 year periods. Based on projections of future taxable income and tax planning strategies, we expect to be able to recover these assets. The amount of the net deferred tax assets considered

  60 


Table of Contents

realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if our projections of future taxable income are reduced or if we do not perform at the levels we are projecting. This could result in
increases to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and a corresponding increase to income tax expense of up to the entire net amount of deferred tax assets.  From time to time, various state, federal, and other jurisdictional tax authorities undertake reviews of us and our filings. We believe any adjustments that may ultimately be required as a result of any
of these reviews will not be material to the financial statements.  FASB ASC 740 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in
income taxes recognized in the financial statements. This pronouncement prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in the our tax return.
FASB ASC 740 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. 
As of December 31, 2011, we have net deferred tax assets of $49.1 million, relating to the impairment of goodwill, amortization
of intangibles assets, certain other temporary differences, acquired federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, and research and development credits. Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that our net
deferred tax assets, excluding certain state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, will be realized. As of December 31, 2011, based upon both positive and negative evidence available, we have determined it is not more likely than not
that certain deferred tax assets primarily relating to net operating loss carryforwards in certain state, city and foreign jurisdictions will be realizable and accordingly, have recorded a 100% valuation allowance of $4.6 million against these
deferred tax assets. We do not have a history of taxable income in the relevant jurisdictions and the state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards will more likely than not expire unutilized. Should we determine in the future that we will be
able to realize these deferred tax assets, or not be able to realize all or part of our remaining net deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2011, an adjustment to the net deferred tax assets would impact net income or
stockholders’ equity in the period such determination was made.  As of December 31, 2010 and 2011, we had
federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL”) of $1.7 million (excluding Jingle) which will begin to expire in 2019. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 limits the use of NOL and tax credit carryforwards in certain situations where changes occur
in the stock ownership of a company. We believe that such a change has occurred, and that approximately $1.7 million of NOL carryforwards is limited such that substantially all of these federal NOL carryforwards will never be available. Accordingly,
we have not recorded a deferred tax asset for these NOL’s.  In connection with the Jingle acquisition, the Company
acquired federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL”). Where there is a “change in ownership” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, the acquired federal net operating loss carryforwards are
subject to an annual limitation. The Company believes that such an ownership change had occurred at Jingle, and that the utilization of the carryforwards is limited such that the majority of the NOL carryforwards will never be utilized. Accordingly,
the Company has not recorded those amounts the Company believes it will not be able to utilize and has not included those NOL carryforwards in its deferred tax assets. The Company’s preliminary estimate of NOL carryforwards that may be utilized
is approximately $7.0 million. In 2011, the Company utilized approximately $2.8 million.  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-04,
Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs (“ASU 2011-04”). ASU 2011-04 amended Accounting Standards Codification Topic 820 (“ASC 820”) to converge the fair value
measurement guidance in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”). Some of the amendments clarify the application of existing fair value measurement requirements, while other amendments change a particular
principle in ASC 820. In addition, ASU 
  61 


Table of Contents

2011-04 requires additional fair value disclosures. The amendments are to be applied prospectively and are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. We will adopt these
provisions in first quarter 2012 and we do not expect these provisions to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  In June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income (“ASU 2011-05”), to
require an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. The amendment is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, and interim periods within
that year. In December 2011, the FASB issued an amendment to an existing accounting standard which defers the requirement to present components of the reclassifications of other comprehensive income on the face of the income statement. We do not
expect these standards to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  In September 2011, the FASB issued
Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment (“ASU 2011-08”). ASU 2011-08 amended Accounting Standards Codification Topic 350 (“ASC 350”) to allow companies to first assess qualitative
factors to determine whether existence of events or circumstances leads to a conclusion that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value. If such a conclusion is reached, then the two-step
impairment test is not required to be performed. ASU 2011-08 is effective for the Company in 2012 and earlier adoption is permitted. We will adopt this standard in the first quarter of 2012 and we do not expect the standard to have a material impact
on our consolidated financial statements.   


ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.  Our exposure to market risk is limited to interest income sensitivity, which is affected by changes in the general level of U.S. interest rates, particularly because the majority of our investments are in
short-term, money market funds. We place our investments with high-quality financial institutions. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, the effects of changes in interest rates on the fair market value of our investments and our
earnings were not material. Further, we believe that the impact on the fair market value of our investments and our earnings from a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates would not be significant. We do not have any material foreign currency or
other derivative financial instruments.  Our existing credit facility bears interest at a rate which will be, at our option,
either: (i) the applicable margin rate (depending on our leverage) plus the one-month LIBOR rate reset daily, or (ii) the applicable margin rate plus the 1, 2, 3, or 6-month LIBOR rate. This facility is exposed to market rate fluctuations
and may impact the interest paid on any borrowings under the credit facility. Currently, we have no borrowings under this facility; however, an increase in interest rates would impact interest expense on future borrowings. 
  62 


Table of Contents


ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   








 
  
Page
 

 Marchex, Inc.
  







 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
64
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2011
  
 
66
  




 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and
2011
  
 
67
  




 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 
31, 2009, 2010 and 2011
  
 
68
  




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and
2011
  
 
69
  




 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
70
  

  63 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders  Marchex, Inc.:  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Marchex, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011.
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Marchex, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 12, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting.  /s/ KPMG LLP  Seattle, Washington  March 12, 2012 
  64 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Marchex, Inc.:  We have audited
Marchex, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). Marchex, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures
as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, Marchex, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Marchex, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2011, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, and our report dated March 12, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements.  /s/ KPMG LLP 
Seattle, Washington  March 12, 2012

  65 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(in thousands, except per share amounts) 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
2011
 

Assets
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
37,328
  
 
$
37,443
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
20,214
  
 
 
30,635
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
3,567
  
 
 
3,614
  

 Refundable taxes
  
 
3,249
  
 
 
193
  

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
869
  
 
 
2,753
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
65,227
  
 
 
74,638
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
4,710
  
 
 
6,187
  

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
50,769
  
 
 
46,310
  

 Intangible and other assets, net
  
 
2,070
  
 
 
2,191
  

 Goodwill
  
 
35,337
  
 
 
82,644
  

 Intangible assets from acquisitions, net
  
 
1,577
  
 
 
8,088
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
159,690
  
 
$
220,058
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
11,166
  
 
$
12,896
  

 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
  
 
5,106
  
 
 
8,430
  

 Deferred acquisition payments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
35,214
  

 Deferred revenue
  
 
1,650
  
 
 
1,930
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
17,922
  
 
 
58,470
  

 Other non-current liabilities
  
 
2,076
  
 
 
2,580
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
19,998
  
 
 
61,050
  

 Commitments and contingencies
  



 




 Stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Common stock, $.01 par value. Authorized 137,500 shares;
  



 




 Class A: 12,500 shares authorized; 10,501 and 10,238 shares issued and outstanding, respectively, at December 31, 2010;
9,894 and 9,632 shares issued and outstanding, respectively, at December 31, 2011
  
 
105
  
 
 
99
  

 Class B: 125,000 shares authorized; 25,480 and 25,257 shares issued and outstanding, respectively, at December 31, 2010,
including 3,214 of restricted stock at December 31, 2010; and 28,074 and 27,917 shares issued and outstanding, respectively, at December 31, 2011, including 3,995 restricted stock at December 31, 2011
  
 
255
  
 
 
281
  

 Treasury stock: 223 and 157 shares of Class B stock at December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively
  
 
(1,360
) 
 
 
(1,067
) 

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
281,421
  
 
 
297,465
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(140,729
) 
 
 
(137,770
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
139,692
  
 
 
159,008
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
  
$
159,690
  
 
$
220,058
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  66 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Operations 
(in thousands, except per share amounts) 
 
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Revenue
  
$
93,261
  
 
$
97,566
  
 
$
146,726
  

 Expenses:
  



 



 




 Service costs (1)
  
 
47,633
  
 
 
57,557
  
 
 
81,835
  

 Sales and marketing (1)
  
 
17,890
  
 
 
13,530
  
 
 
15,434
  

 Product development (1)
  
 
14,478
  
 
 
16,804
  
 
 
22,794
  

 General and administrative (1)
  
 
16,049
  
 
 
17,507
  
 
 
22,709
  

 Amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions (2)
  
 
5,493
  
 
 
2,729
  
 
 
5,455
  

 Acquisition related costs
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,890
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
101,543
  
 
 
108,127
  
 
 
150,117
  

 Gain on sales and disposals of intangible assets, net
  
 
4,712
  
 
 
6,772
  
 
 
9,421
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from operations
  
 
(3,570
) 
 
 
(3,789
) 
 
 
6,030
  

 Other income (expense):
  



 



 




 Interest income
  
 
60
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
141
  

 Interest and line of credit expense
  
 
(99
) 
 
 
(107
) 
 
 
(604
) 

 Other
  
 
22
  
 
 
160
  
 
 
5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense)
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
129
  
 
 
(458
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes
  
 
(3,587
) 
 
 
(3,660
) 
 
 
5,572
  

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
(1,525
) 
 
 
(617
) 
 
 
2,613
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
(2,062
) 
 
 
(3,043
) 
 
 
2,959
  

 Dividends paid to participating securities
  
 
(187
) 
 
 
(199
) 
 
 
(259
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(2,249
) 
 
$
(3,242
) 
 
$
2,700
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share applicable to Class A and Class B common stockholders
  
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
0.08
  

 Dividends paid per share
  
$
0.08
  
 
$
0.08
  
 
$
0.08
  

 Shares used to calculate basic net income (loss) per share applicable to common stockholders
  



 



 




 Class A
  
 
10,884
  
 
 
10,661
  
 
 
9,928
  

 Class B
  
 
22,830
  
 
 
21,993
  
 
 
23,358
  

 Shares used to calculate diluted net income (loss) per share applicable to common stockholders
  



 



 




 Class A
  
 
10,884
  
 
 
10,661
  
 
 
9,928
  

 Class B
  
 
33,714
  
 
 
32,654
  
 
 
35,318
  

   (1) 
      Excludes amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions.
  



 



 





(2) 
      Components of amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions:
  



 



 




 Service costs
  
$
5,448
  
 
$
2,729
  
 
$
4,515
  

 Sales and marketing
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
897
  

 General and administrative
  
 
45
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
43
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5,493
  
 
$
2,729
  
 
$
5,455
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  67 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 
(in thousands)   








































 
  
Class A
 
 
Class B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionalpaid-in
capital
 
 
Accumulateddeficit

 
 
Totalstockholders’
equity
 

 
  
common stock
 
 
common stock
 
 
Treasury stock
 
 
 
 

 
  
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 
 

 Balances at December 31, 2008
  
 
10,959
  
 
$
112
  
 
 
28,674
  
 
$
287
  
 
 
(2,580
) 
 
$
(15,393
) 
 
$
299,926
  
 
$
(135,624
) 
 
$
149,308
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
81
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
81
  

 Income tax shortfall of option exercises and restricted stock vesting, net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,841
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,841
) 

 Issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase plan
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
39
  

 Issuance of restricted stock to employees
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,178
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
12
  

 Repurchase of Class B common stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,752
) 
 
 
(10,721
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,721
) 

 Conversion of Class A common stock to
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Class B common stock
  
 
(90
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
90
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of unvested restricted stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(158
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2
) 

 Stock compensation from options and restricted stock, net of estimated forfeitures
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,513
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,513
  

 Retirement of treasury stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,795
) 
 
 
(48
) 
 
 
4,795
  
 
 
22,911
  
 
 
(22,863
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net loss
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,062
) 
 
 
(2,062
) 

 Common stock cash dividends
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,902
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,902
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2009
  
 
10,869
  
 
$
111
  
 
 
25,194
  
 
$
252
  
 
 
(695
) 
 
$
(3,205
) 
 
$
281,953
  
 
$
(137,686
) 
 
$
141,425
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
371
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
372
  

 Income tax shortfall of option exercises and restricted stock vesting, net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(537
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(537
) 

 Issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase plan
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
17
  

 Issuance of restricted stock to employees
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,358
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  

 Repurchase of Class B common stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,234
) 
 
 
(6,534
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,534
) 

 Conversion of Class A common stock to
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Class B common stock
  
 
(631
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
631
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of unvested restricted stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(82
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 

 Stock compensation from options and restricted stock, net of estimated forfeitures
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,795
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,795
  

 Retirement of treasury stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,788
) 
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
1,788
  
 
 
8,380
  
 
 
(8,362
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net loss
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,043
) 
 
 
(3,043
) 

 Common stock cash dividends
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,816
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,816
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2010
  
 
10,238
  
 
$
105
  
 
 
25,480
  
 
$
255
  
 
 
(223
) 
 
$
(1,360
) 
 
$
281,421
  
 
$
(140,729
) 
 
$
139,692
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Issuance of common stock upon
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 exercise of stock options
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
411
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,753
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,757
  

 Income tax benefit of option exercises and restricted stock vesting, net
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
913
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
913
  

 Issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase plan
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
26
  

 Issuance of common stock in connection with acquisition
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,019
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,593
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,603
  

 Issuance of restricted stock to employees
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,103
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11
  

 Issuance of restricted stock to employees as part of acquisitions
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
462
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5
  

 Repurchase of Class B common stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(883
) 
 
 
(6,159
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,159
) 

 Conversion of Class A common stock to
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Class B common stock
  
 
(606
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
606
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of unvested restricted stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 



 



 
 
(62
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1
) 

 Stock compensation from options and restricted stock, net of estimated forfeitures
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,140
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
15,140
  

 Retirement of treasury stock
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,011
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
1,011
  
 
 
6,453
  
 
 
(6,443
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net income
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,959
  
 
 
2,959
  

 Common stock cash dividends
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,938
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,938
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances at December 31, 2011
  
 
9,632
  
 
$
99
  
 
 
28,074
  
 
$
281
  
 
 
(157
) 
 
$
(1,067
) 
 
$
297,465
  
 
$
(137,770
) 
 
$
159,008
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  68 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(in thousands)   
















 
 
Years ended December 31,
 

 
 
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Net income (loss)
 
$
(2,062
) 
 
$
(3,043
) 
 
$
2,959
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
 



 



 




 Amortization and depreciation
 
 
11,704
  
 
 
7,694
  
 
 
9,473
  

 Accretion of interest expense
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
519
  

 Acquisition related costs
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
372
  

 Leasehold improvement incentive
 
 
—  
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
204
  

 Gain on sales of fixed assets, net
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(4
) 

 Gain on sales and disposals of intangible assets, net
 
 
(4,712
) 
 
 
(6,772
) 
 
 
(9,421
) 

 Allowance for doubtful accounts and advertiser credits
 
 
975
  
 
 
1,348
  
 
 
1,203
  

 Stock-based compensation
 
 
9,597
  
 
 
10,832
  
 
 
15,143
  

 Deferred income taxes
 
 
4,232
  
 
 
2,004
  
 
 
1,895
  

 Excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation
 
 
(69
) 
 
 
(36
) 
 
 
(1,032
) 

 Change in certain assets and liabilities, net of acquisition:
 



 



 




 Accounts receivable, net
 
 
5,975
  
 
 
(6,778
) 
 
 
(6,965
) 

 Refundable taxes, net
 
 
(3,678
) 
 
 
1,631
  
 
 
4,006
  

 Prepaid expenses, other current assets and restricted cash
 
 
327
  
 
 
(988
) 
 
 
(1,618
) 

 Accounts payable
 
 
(3,659
) 
 
 
2,486
  
 
 
(1,542
) 

 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
 
 
(1,267
) 
 
 
(320
) 
 
 
1,195
  

 Deferred revenue
 
 
(236
) 
 
 
(307
) 
 
 
210
  

 Other non-current liabilities
 
 
29
  
 
 
860
  
 
 
185
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
 
17,147
  
 
 
9,388
  
 
 
16,782
  

 Purchases of property and equipment
 
 
(2,383
) 
 
 
(3,441
) 
 
 
(3,971
) 

 Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(15,801
) 

 Proceeds from sales of property and equipment
 
 
9
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
9
  

 Proceeds from sales of intangible assets
 
 
4,921
  
 
 
6,779
  
 
 
9,474
  

 Purchases of intangibles and changes in other non-current assets
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
(116
) 
 
 
(103
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
2,535
  
 
 
3,223
  
 
 
(10,392
) 

 Capital lease obligation principal payments
 
 
(39
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Excess tax benefit related to stock options
 
 
69
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
1,032
  

 Repurchase of Class B common stock for treasury stock
 
 
(10,721
) 
 
 
(6,534
) 
 
 
(6,159
) 

 Common stock dividends payments
 
 
(2,902
) 
 
 
(2,816
) 
 
 
(2,938
) 

 Proceeds from exercises of stock options
 
 
80
  
 
 
372
  
 
 
1,754
  

 Proceeds from issuance of restricted stock to employees
 
 
12
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
10
  

 Proceeds from employee stock purchase plan
 
 
39
  
 
 
17
  
 
 
26
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(13,462
) 
 
 
(8,921
) 
 
 
(6,275
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
6,220
  
 
 
3,690
  
 
 
115
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
 
 
27,418
  
 
 
33,638
  
 
 
37,328
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
 
$
33,638
  
 
$
37,328
  
 
$
37,443
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
 



 



 




 Cash received during the period for income taxes, net of payments
 
 
(2,107
) 
 
 
(4,336
) 
 
 
(2,994
) 

 Cash paid (received) during the period for interest, net
 
 
69
  
 
 
77
  
 
 
(63
) 

 Supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities:
 



 



 




 Fair value of Class B common stock issued in connection with acquisition
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,603
  

 Deferred payments related to acquisition
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
34,695
  

 Property and equipment acquired in accounts payable and accrued expenses
 
 
801
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
121
  

 Leasehold improvement incentive recorded in other current assets and other non-current liabilities
 
 
779
  
 
 
211
  
 
 
—  
  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 
  69 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(1) Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Practices 
(a) Description of Business and Basis of Presentation 
Marchex, Inc. (the “Company”) was incorporated in the state of Delaware on January 17, 2003. The Company is a digital call
advertising and small business solutions company. The Company delivers call and click-based advertising products and services to tens of thousands of advertisers, ranging from small businesses to the Fortune 500 companies. 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Marchex and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Acquisitions are included in the
Company’s consolidated financial statements as of and from the date of acquisition. The Company’s purchase accounting resulted in all assets and liabilities of acquired businesses being recorded at their estimated fair values on the
acquisition dates. All inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain reclassifications have been made to the consolidated financial statements in the prior years to conform to the current year presentation.
 Acquisition  On April 7, 2011, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of Jingle Networks, Inc. (“Jingle”), a provider of mobile voice search performance advertising and technology solutions in North
America. See Note 10 for further discussion.  (b) Cash and Cash Equivalents 
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds.  (c) Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 The Company had the following financial instruments as of December 31, 2010 and 2011: cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, refundable taxes, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, refundable taxes, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximates their fair value based on
the liquidity of these financial instruments or based on their short-term nature.  (d) Accounts Receivable
 Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. Accounts receivable balances are
presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts and allowance for advertiser credits.  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 The allowance for doubtful accounts is the Company’s best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in
existing accounts receivable. The Company determines the allowance based on analysis of historical bad debts, advertiser concentrations, advertiser credit-worthiness and current economic trends. Past due balances over 90 days and specific
other balances are reviewed individually for collectibility. The Company reviews the allowance for collectibility quarterly. Account balances are written off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential
for recovery is considered remote. 
  70 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
The allowance for doubtful account activity for the periods indicated is as follows (in
thousands):   




















 
  
Balance atbeginningof period
 
  
Charged tocosts andexpenses
 
  
Write-offs,net ofrecoveries
 
  
Balance atend ofperiod
 

 December 31, 2009
  
$
817
  
  
$
59
  
  
$
409
  
  
$
467
  

 December 31, 2010
  
 
467
  
  
 
343
  
  
 
353
  
  
 
457
  

 December 31, 2011
  
 
457
  
  
 
453
  
  
 
117
  
  
 
793
  
 Allowance for Advertiser Credits 
The allowance for advertiser credits is the Company’s best estimate of the amount of expected future reductions in advertisers’
payment obligations related to delivered services. The Company determines the allowance for advertiser credits and adjustments based on analysis of historical credits.  The allowance for advertiser credits activity for the periods indicated is as follows (in thousands):   




















 
  
Balance atbeginningof period
 
  
Additions chargedagainst
revenue
 
  
Creditsprocessed
 
  
Balance atend ofperiod
 

 December 31, 2009
  
$
486
  
  
$
917
  
  
$
939
  
  
$
464
  

 December 31, 2010
  
 
464
  
  
 
1,005
  
  
 
830
  
  
 
639
  

 December 31, 2011
  
 
639
  
  
 
690
  
  
 
856
  
  
 
473
  
 (e) Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation on computers and other related equipment, purchased and internally developed
software, and furniture and fixtures is calculated on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally averaging three years. Leasehold improvements are amortized straight-line over the shorter of the lease term or
estimated useful lives of the assets ranging from three to eight years.  (f) Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in
business combinations accounted for under the purchase method.  The Company applies the provisions of FASB ASC 350
“Goodwill and Intangible Assets”. Goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually in
accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC 350. FASB ASC 350 also requires that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed for impairment in
accordance with FASB ASC 360.  (g) Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets 
The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with FASB ASC 360 whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the
asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds fair value. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented on the balance sheet
and reported at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and no longer depreciated. 
  71 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
(h) Revenue Recognition 
The following table presents our revenues, by revenue source, for the periods presented (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Partner and Other Revenue Sources
  
$
61,698
  
  
$
71,537
  
  
$
126,210
  

 Proprietary Web site Traffic Sources
  
 
31,563
  
  
 
26,029
  
  
 
20,516
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Revenue
  
$
93,261
  
  
$
97,566
  
  
$
146,726
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company’s partner network revenues are primarily generated using third party distribution
networks to deliver the pay-for-call or pay-per-click advertisers’ listings. The distribution network includes mobile and online search engines and applications, directories, destination sites, shopping engines, third party Internet domains or
web sites, other targeted Web-based content, and offline sources. The Company generates revenue upon delivery of qualified and reported phone calls or click-throughs to our advertisers or to advertising services providers’ listings. The Company
pays a revenue share to the distribution partners to access their mobile, online, offline and other user traffic. Other revenues include the Company’s call provisioning and call tracking services, presence management services, campaign
management services and natural search optimization services.  The Company’s proprietary web site traffic revenues are
generated from the Company’s portfolio of owned web sites which are monetized with pay-for-call or pay-per-click listings that are relevant to the web sites, as well as other forms of advertising, including banner advertising and sponsorships.
When an online user navigates to one of the Company’s owned and operated web sites and calls or clicks on a particular listing or completes the specified action, the Company receives a fee. 
The Company’s primary sources of revenue are the performance-based advertising services, which include pay-for-call and voice search
services, pay-per-click services, cost-per-action services and historically feed management and related services. These primary sources amounted to greater than 78% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011. The secondary
sources of revenue are small business solutions products which enable partner resellers to sell call adverting and/or search marketing products, campaign management services, and natural search optimization services. These secondary sources amounted
to less than 22% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Company has no barter transactions.  The Company recognizes revenue upon the completion of its performance obligation, provided that: (1) evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) the arrangement fee is fixed and determinable; and
(3) collection is reasonably assured.  In certain cases, the Company records revenue based on available and reported
preliminary information from third parties. Collection on the related receivables may vary from reported information based upon third party refinement of the estimated and reported amounts owing that occurs subsequent to period ends. 
In providing call advertising services and pay-per-click advertising, the Company generates revenue upon delivery of qualified and
reported phone calls or click-throughs to advertisers or advertising service providers’ listings. These advertisers and advertising service providers pay the Company a designated transaction fee for each phone call or click-through, which
occurs when an online user makes a phone call or clicks on any of their advertisement listings after it has been placed by the Company or by the Company’s distribution partners. Each phone call or click-through on an advertisement listing
represents a completed transaction. The advertisement 
  72 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 

listings are displayed within the Company’s distribution network, which includes mobile and online search engines and applications, directories, destination sites, shopping engines, third
party Internet domains or web sites, the Company’s portfolio of owned web sites and other targeted Web-based content and offline sources. The Company also generates revenue from cost-per-action services, which occurs when the online user is
redirected from one of the Company’s web sites or a third party web site in our distribution network to an advertiser web site and completes the specified action.  The Company generates revenue from reseller partners and publishers utilizing the Company’s small business solutions products to sell call advertising and/or search marketing products. The Company is
paid account fees and also agency fees for the Company’s products in the form of a percentage of the cost of every call or click delivered to advertisers. The reseller partners or publishers engage the advertisers and are the primary obligor,
and the Company, in certain instances, is only financially liable to the publishers in the Company’s capacity as a collection agency for the amount collected from the advertisers. The Company recognizes revenue for these fees under the net
revenue recognition method. In limited arrangements resellers pay the Company a fee for fulfilling an advertiser’s campaign in its distribution network and the Company acts as the primary obligor. The Company recognizes revenue for these fees
under the gross revenue recognition method.  In providing pay-per-click contextual targeting services, advertisers purchase
keywords or keyword strings, based on an amount they choose for a targeted placement on vertically-focused web sites or specific pages of a web site that are specific to their products or services and their marketing objectives. The contextual
results distributed by our services are prioritized for users by the amount the advertiser is willing to pay each time a user clicks on the advertisement and the relevance of the advertisement, which is dictated by historical click-through rates.
Advertisers pay the Company when a click-through occurs on their advertisement.  Prior to 2010, the Company offered feed
management services in which advertisers paid for their Web pages and product databases to be crawled, or searched, and included in search engine, directory and product shopping engine results within the Company’s distribution network.
Generally, the feed management listings were presented in a different section of the Web page than the pay-per-click listings. For this service, revenue was generated when an online user clicks on a feed management listing from search engine,
directory or product shopping engine results. Each click-through on an advertisement listing represented a completed transaction for which the advertiser paid for on a per-click basis. The placement of a feed management result was largely determined
by its relevancy, as determined by the distribution partner. Yahoo! discontinued its feed management service relationship with the Company effective December 31, 2009 as a result of its partnership with Microsoft. Accordingly, the Company
discontinued its feed management and related service offerings as of that date.  Advertisers pay the Company additional fees
for services such as campaign management and natural search engine optimization. Advertisers generally pay the Company on a click-through basis, although in certain cases the Company receives a fixed fee for delivery of these services. In some cases
we also deliver banner campaigns for select advertisers. Banner advertising revenue may be based on a fixed fee per click and is generated and recognized on click-through activity. In other cases, banner payment terms are volume-based with revenue
generated and recognized when impressions are delivered.  The Company enters into agreements with various distribution
partners to provide distribution for pay-for-call and pay-per-click advertisement listings which contain call tracking numbers and/or URL strings of our advertisers. The Company generally pays distribution partners based on a percentage of revenue
or a fixed amount per phone call or click-through on these listings. The Company acts as the primary obligor with the advertiser for revenue call or click-through transactions and is responsible for the fulfillment of services. 
  73 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
In accordance with FASB ASC 605, the revenue derived from advertisers is reported gross
based upon the amounts received from the advertiser. The Company also recognizes revenue for certain agency contracts with advertisers under the net revenue recognition method. Under these specific agreements, the Company purchases listings on
behalf of advertisers from mobile sources, search engines and applications, directories, other Web-based content providers and offline sources. The Company is paid account fees and also agency fees based on the total amount of the purchase made on
behalf of these advertisers. Under these agreements, the advertisers are primarily responsible for choosing the publisher and determining pricing, and the Company, in certain instances, is only financially liable to the publisher for the amount
collected from our advertisers. This creates a sequential liability for media purchases made on behalf of advertisers. In certain instances, the web publishers engage the advertisers directly and the Company is paid an agency fee based on the total
amount of the purchase made by the advertiser. In limited arrangements resellers pay us a fee for fulfilling an advertiser’s campaign in our distribution network and we act as the primary obligor. We recognize revenue for these fees under the
gross revenue recognition method.  The Company applies FASB ASC 605 to account for revenue arrangements with multiple
deliverables. FASB ASC 605 addresses certain aspects of accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which the vendor will perform multiple revenue-generating activities. When an arrangement involves multiple elements, the entire fee from the
arrangement is allocated to each respective element based on its relative fair value and recognized when the revenue recognition criteria, as described above, for each element are met. Fair value for each element is established based on the sales
price charged when the same element is sold separately.  (j) Service Costs 
The largest component of the Company’s service costs consist of user acquisition costs that relate primarily to payments made to
distribution partners for access to their mobile, online, and offline user traffic. The Company enters into agreements of varying durations with distribution partners that integrate the Company’s services into their web sites and indexes. The
primary payment structure of the distribution partner agreements is a variable payment based on a specified percentage of revenue. These variable payments are often subject to minimum payment amounts per phone call or click-through. Other payment
structures that to a lesser degree exist include: 1) fixed payments, based on a guaranteed minimum amount of usage delivered, 2) variable payments based on a specified metric, such as number of paid click-throughs, and 3) a combination arrangement
with both fixed and variable amounts that may be paid in advance.  The Company expenses user acquisition costs based on
whether the agreement provides for fixed or variable payments. Agreements with fixed payments with minimum guaranteed amounts of usage are expensed as the greater of the pro-rata amount over the term of arrangement or the actual usage delivered to
date based on the contractual revenue share. Agreements with variable payments based on a percentage of revenue, number of paid phone calls or click-throughs or other metrics are expensed as incurred based on the volume of the underlying activity or
revenue multiplied by the agreed-upon price or rate.  Service costs also include network operations and customer service costs
that consist primarily of costs associated with providing performance-based advertising and search marketing services, maintaining the Company’s web sites, credit card processing fees, network costs and fees paid to outside service providers
that provide the Company’s paid listings and customer services. Customer service and other costs associated with serving the Company’s search results and maintaining the Company’s web sites include depreciation of web sites, network
equipment and internally developed software, colocation charges of the Company’s network web site equipment, bandwidth, software license fees, salaries of related personnel, stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets. Other
service costs include license fees, the amortization of the purchase cost of domain names, the costs incurred for the renewal of the domain name registration and telecommunication costs, including the use of telephone numbers for providing
call-based advertising services. 
  74 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
(k) Advertising Expenses 
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and include Internet-based advertising, sponsorships, and trade shows. Such costs are included
in sales and marketing. Internet-based advertising is concentrated primarily with four providers. The amounts for online and related outside marketing activities were approximately $8.1 million, $3.8 million and $3.3 million for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively.  (l) Other Intangible Assets and Product Development
 The Company capitalizes costs incurred to acquire domain names or URLs, which include the initial registration fees,
and amortizes the costs over the expected useful life of the domain names on a straight-line basis. The expected useful lives range from 12 to 84 months. In order to maintain the rights to each domain name acquired, the Company pays periodic
registration fees, which generally cover a minimum period of 12 months. The Company records registration renewal fees of domain name intangible assets as a prepaid expense and recognizes the cost over the renewal period. Product development costs
consist primarily of expenses incurred by the Company in the research and development, creation, and enhancement of the Company’s Internet sites and services. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and include compensation and
related expenses, costs of computer hardware and software, and costs incurred in developing features and functionality of the services. For the periods presented, substantially all of the product development expenses are research and development.
 Product development costs are expensed as incurred or capitalized into property and equipment in accordance with FASB ASC
350. FASB ASC 350 requires that cost incurred in the preliminary project and post-implementation stages of an internal use software project be expensed as incurred and that certain costs incurred in the application development stage of a project be
capitalized.  (m) Income Taxes  The Company utilizes the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax laws or rates is recognized in results of operations
in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded for deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will not be realized. 
(n) Stock-Based Compensation  The Company follows FASB ASC 718 and accounts for stock-based compensation for employees and non-employees under the fair value method. As a result, stock-based compensation consists of the following:
  


 
•
 
 all share-based compensation arrangements granted after January 1, 2006 (adoption date of FASB ASC 718) and for any such arrangements that are
modified, cancelled, or repurchased after that date; and   


 
•
 
 the portion of previous share-based awards for which the requisite service was not rendered as of January 1, 2006. 
Stock-based compensation expense has been included in the same lines as compensation paid to the same employees in the consolidated
statement of operations. 
  75 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
(o) Use of Estimates 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during the reporting period. The Company has used estimates related to several financial statement amounts, including revenues, allowance for doubtful accounts, allowance for advertiser credits, useful lives for property and equipment,
intangible assets, the fair-value of the Company’s common stock and stock option awards, the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 In certain cases, the Company records revenue based on available and reported preliminary information from third parties.
Collection on the related receivables may vary from reported information based upon third party refinement of the estimated and reported amounts owing that occurs subsequent to period ends. 
(p) Concentrations  The Company maintains substantially all of their cash and cash equivalents with one financial institution.  A significant majority of the Company’s revenue earned from advertisers is generated through arrangements with distribution partners. The Company may not be successful in renewing any of these
agreements, or if they are renewed, they may not be on terms as favorable as current arrangements. The Company may not be successful in entering into agreements with new distribution partners or advertisers on commercially acceptable terms. In
addition, several of these distribution partners or advertisers may be considered potential competitors. There were no distribution partners representing more than 10% of consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and
2011.  The advertisers representing more than 10% of consolidated revenue are as follows (in percentages): 
 
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Advertiser A
  
 
11
% 
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  

 Advertiser B
  
 
22
% 
 
 
23
% 
 
 
31
% 

 Advertiser C
  
 
11
% 
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  
 Advertiser A and B are also distribution partners. 
 


*
Less than 10% of revenue.  The
outstanding receivable balance for each advertiser representing more than 10% of consolidated accounts receivable is as follows (in percentages):   












 
  
At December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Advertiser B
  
 
40
% 
 
 
37
% 

 Advertiser D
  
 
11
% 
 
 
*
  
  


*
Less than 10% of accounts receivable. 
  76 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
(q) Segment Reporting and Geographic Information 
Operating segments are revenue-producing components of the enterprise for which separate financial information is produced internally for
the Company’s management. For all periods presented the Company operated as a single segment. The Company operates in a single operating segment principally in domestic markets providing digital advertiser transaction services to enterprises.
 Revenues from advertisers by geographical areas are tracked on the basis of the location of the advertiser. The vast majority
of the Company’s revenue and accounts receivable are derived from domestic sales to advertisers engaged in various mobile, online and other digital activities.  Revenues by geographic region are as follows (in percentages):   
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 United States
  
 
98
% 
 
 
96
% 
 
 
94
% 

 Canada
  
 
1
% 
 
 
4
% 
 
 
6
% 

 Other countries
  
 
1
% 
 
 
*
  
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


*
Less than 1% of revenue 
(r) Net Income (Loss) Per Share  The Company computes net income (loss) per share of Class A and Class B common stock using the two class method. Under the provisions of the two class method, basic net loss per share is computed by
dividing net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) applicable to common stockholder
by the weighted average number of common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. The computation of the diluted net income (loss) per share of Class B common stock assumes the conversion of Class A common
stock to Class B common stock, while the diluted net income (loss) per share of Class A common stock does not assume the conversion of those shares.  In accordance with the two class method, the undistributed earnings (losses) for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A and Class B common shares
and the restricted shares as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. Considering the terms of the Company’s charter which provides that, if and when dividends are declared on our common stock in accordance with Delaware General
Corporation Law, equivalent dividends shall be and have been paid with respect to the shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock and that both classes of common stock have identical dividend rights and would share equally in the
Company’s net assets in the event of liquidation, the Company has allocated undistributed earnings (losses) on a proportionate basis. Additionally, the Company has paid dividends equally to both classes of common stock and the restricted shares
since it initiated a quarterly cash dividend in November 2006. 
  77 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
Instruments granted in unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable
rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, whether paid or unpaid, are participating securities prior to vesting. As such, the Company’s restricted stock awards are considered participating securities for purposes of calculating earnings per
share. Under the two class method, dividends paid on unvested restricted stock are allocated to these participating securities and therefore impacts the calculation of amounts allocated to common stock. The following table calculates net loss to net
loss applicable to common stockholders used to compute basic net loss per share for the periods ended (in thousands, except per share amounts):   




























 
  
Twelve months ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 
  
Class A
 
 
Class B
 
 
Class A
 
 
Class B
 
 
Class A
 
  
Class B
 

 Numerator:
  



 



 



 



 



  




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(726
) 
 
$
(1,336
) 
 
$
(1,058
) 
 
$
(1,985
) 
 
$
799
  
  
$
2,160
  

 Dividends paid to participating securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(187
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(199
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(259
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(726
) 
 
$
(1,523
) 
 
$
(1,058
) 
 
$
(2,184
) 
 
$
799
  
  
$
1,901
  

 Denominator:
  



 



 



 



 



  




 Weighted average number of shares outstanding used to calculate basic net income (loss) per share
  
 
10,884
  
 
 
22,830
  
 
 
10,661
  
 
 
21,993
  
 
 
9,928
  
  
 
23,358
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic net income (loss) per share applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
0.08
  
  
$
0.08
  
 The following table calculates net income (loss) to diluted net income (loss) applicable to common
stockholders used to compute diluted net income (loss) per share for the periods ended (in thousands, except per share amounts):   




























 
  
Twelve months ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 
  
Class A
 
 
Class B
 
 
Class A
 
 
Class B
 
 
Class A
 
  
Class B
 

 Numerator:
  



 



 



 



 



  




 Net income (loss)
  
$
(726
) 
 
$
(1,336
) 
 
$
(1,058
) 
 
$
(1,985
) 
 
$
799
  
  
$
2,160
  

 Dividends paid to participating securities
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(187
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(199
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(259
) 

 Reallocation of net income (loss) for Class A shares as a result of conversion of Class A to Class B
shares
  



 
 
(726
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,058
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
799
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(726
) 
 
$
(2,249
) 
 
$
(1,058
) 
 
$
(3,242
) 
 
$
799
  
  
$
2,700
  

 Denominator:
  



 



 



 



 



  




 Weighted average number of shares outstanding used to calculate basic net income (loss) per share
  
 
10,884
  
 
 
22,830
  
 
 
10,661
  
 
 
21,993
  
 
 
9,928
  
  
 
23,358
  

 Weighted average stock options and common shares subject to repurchase or cancellation
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 



  
 
2,032
  

 Conversion of Class A to Class B common shares outstanding
  
 
—  
  
 
 
10,884
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,661
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
9,928
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average number of shares outstanding used to calculate diluted net income (loss) per share
  
 
10,884
  
 
 
33,714
  
 
 
10,661
  
 
 
32,654
  
 
 
9,928
  
  
 
35,318
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted net income (loss) per share applicable to common stockholders
  
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
(0.07
) 
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
(0.10
) 
 
$
0.08
  
  
$
0.08
  

  78 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
The computation of diluted net income (loss) per share excludes the following because
their effect would be anti-dilutive (in thousands):   


 
•
 
 For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, outstanding options to acquire 4,701 and 6,411 shares, respectively, of Class B common stock. For
the year ended December 31, 2011, outstanding options to acquire 4,792 shares of Class B common stock.   


 
•
 
 For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010, and 2011, 2,542, 3,214 and 134 shares, respectively, of unvested Class B restricted common shares
issued to employees and in connection with acquisitions. These shares were for future services that vest over periods ranging from two to six years.   


 
•
 
 For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, 255 and 153 restricted stock units with vesting based on meeting certain service and market
conditions.   


 
•
 
 For the year ended December 31, 2011, 5,987 shares of Class B common stock that may be issued in lieu of cash for the deferred payments related to
the acquisition of Jingle using the “if converted” method. See Note 11 for further discussion. 
(s) Guarantees  FASB ASC 460 provides accounting guidance surrounding liability recognition and disclosure requirements related to guarantees. In the ordinary course of business, the Company is not subject to potential
obligations under guarantees that fall within the scope of FASB ASC 460 except for standard indemnification provisions that are contained within many of the Company’s advertiser and distribution partner agreements, and give rise only to the
disclosure requirements prescribed by FASB ASC 460.  In certain agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnification
provisions of varying scope and terms with advertisers, vendors and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of the Company’s breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by
the Company, services to be provided by the Company and intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. As a result of these provisions, the Company may from time to time provide certain levels of financial support to contract
parties to seek to minimize the impact of any associated litigation in which they may be involved. To date, there have been no known events or circumstances that have resulted in any material costs related to these indemnification provisions
and no liabilities therefore have been recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. However, the maximum potential amount of the future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification provisions could be
material.  (t) Deferred Acquisition Payment 
The Company’s deferred acquisition payments represent consideration payable related to a business combination, which may be paid in
either cash or shares of the Company’s Series B common stock at the Company’s discretion. Any deferred acquisition payments settled in common stock will be increased by 5%. The deferred acquisition payments were originally recognized at
fair value at the date of the business combination and are recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet. Interest expense on the principal amounts due is accreted each period using the effective interest rate method. 
(u) Recently Issued Accounting Standards  In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure
Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs (“ASU 2011-04”). ASU 2011-04 amended Accounting Standards Codification Topic 820 (“ASC 820”) to converge the fair value measurement guidance in U.S. GAAP and International Financial

  79 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 

Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”). Some of the amendments clarify the application of existing fair value measurement requirements, while other amendments change a particular principle in
ASC 820. In addition, ASU 2011-04 requires additional fair value disclosures. The amendments are to be applied prospectively and are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company will adopt these provisions in
first quarter 2012 and the Company does not expect these provisions to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  In June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income (“ASU 2011-05”), to
require an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. The amendment is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, and interim periods within
that year. In December 2011, the FASB issued an amendment to an existing accounting standard which defers the requirement to present components of the reclassifications of other comprehensive income on the face of the income statement. The Company
does not expect these standards to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  In
September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment (“ASU 2011-08”). ASU 2011-08 amended Accounting Standards Codification Topic 350 (“ASC 350”) to allow companies
to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether existence of events or circumstances leads to a conclusion that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value. If such a conclusion is
reached, then the two-step impairment test is not required to be performed. ASU 2011-08 is effective for the Company in 2012 and earlier adoption is permitted. The Company will adopt this standard in the first quarter of 2012 and the Company does
not expect the standard to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
(2) Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment consisted of the following (in thousands): 
 












 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2010 (1)
 
 
2011 (1)
 

 Computer and other related equipment
  
$
10,710
  
 
$
13,671
  

 Purchased and internally developed software
  
 
6,203
  
 
 
6,667
  

 Furniture and fixtures
  
 
1,129
  
 
 
1,229
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
1,665
  
 
 
1,805
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
19,707
  
 
$
23,372
  

 Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
(14,997
) 
 
 
(17,185
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
$
4,710
  
 
$
6,187
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Includes the original cost and accumulated depreciation of fully-depreciated fixed assets which were $10.8 million and $13.3 million at December 31, 2010 and 2011,
respectively.  The Company has capitalized certain costs of internally developed software for internal use. The
estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project. Amortization begins in the period in which the software is ready for its intended use. The Company had no internally developed software costs that had not commenced
amortization as of December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. 
  80 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
Depreciation and amortization expense incurred by the Company was approximately $3.6
million, $3.0 million and $2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. 
(3) Credit Agreement 
In April 2008, the Company entered into a credit agreement providing for a senior secured $30 million revolving credit
facility (“Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement, as amended, matures and all outstanding borrowings are due in April 2014. Interest on outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement will accrue at LIBOR plus an applicable margin rate,
as determined under the agreement and has an unused commitment fee. The Credit Agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties, financial covenants, events of default and is secured by substantially all of the assets of the
Company. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, the Company had no borrowings under the Credit Agreement. 
(4) Commitments 
The Company has commitments for future payments related to office facilities leases and other contractual obligations.
The Company leases its office facilities under operating lease agreements expiring through 2018. Certain of these lease agreements have free or escalating rent payment provisions or fund certain leasehold improvements which the Company accounts as a
lease incentive. The Company recognizes rent expense under such agreements on a straight-line basis over the lease term with any lease incentive amortized as a reduction of rent expense over the lease term. The Company also has other contractual
obligations expiring over varying time periods through 2016. Other contractual obligations primarily relate to minimum contractual payments due to distribution partners and other outside service providers. 
Future minimum payments are approximately as follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Facilitiesoperatingleases
 
  
Othercontractualobligations
 
  
Total
 

 2012
  
$
2,124
  
  
$
3,401
  
  
$
5,525
  

 2013
  
 
2,235
  
  
 
1,517
  
  
 
3,752
  

 2014
  
 
2,287
  
  
 
1,127
  
  
 
3,414
  

 2015
  
 
2,226
  
  
 
639
  
  
 
2,865
  

 2016
  
 
2,267
  
  
 
447
  
  
 
2,714
  

 2017 and after
  
 
2,910
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,910
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total minimum payments
  
$
14,049
  
  
$
7,131
  
  
$
21,180
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 In June 2009, the Company entered into a lease agreement for office facilities in Seattle, Washington
which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2009 and expires on March 2018. In December 2010, the Company entered into an amendment to the lease agreement from June 2009 for additional office space in Seattle, Washington, which commenced in
December 2010 and expires in March 2018. During 2010 and 2011, the lessor paid approximately $779,000 and $204,000, respectively, towards certain leasehold improvements which the Company accounted for as a lease incentive and is amortizing as a
reduction of rent expense over the lease term.  In May 2010, the Company entered into a lease agreement for office facilities
in New York, New York which commenced in the second quarter of 2010 and expires in March 2018.  Rent expense incurred by the
Company was approximately $1.7 million, $1.7 million and $2.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. 
  81 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
(5) Income Taxes 
The components of income (loss) before provision for income taxes consist of the following (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 United States
  
$
(3,449
) 
 
$
(3,518
) 
 
$
5,819
  

 Foreign
  
 
(138
) 
 
 
(142
) 
 
 
(247
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes
  
$
(3,587
) 
 
$
(3,660
) 
 
$
5,572
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The provision (benefit) for income taxes for the Company consists of the following (in thousands):
  
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Current provision (benefit)
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
(3,980
) 
 
$
(2,168
) 
 
$
(249
) 

 State
  
 
10
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
16
  

 Deferred provision (benefit)
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
4,198
  
 
 
2,004
  
 
 
1,895
  

 State
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign
  
 
34
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Tax expense (benefit) of equity adjustment for stock option exercises and restricted stock vesting
  
 
(1,888
) 
 
 
(605
) 
 
 
824
  

 Other
  
 
101
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
127
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense (benefit)
  
$
(1,525
) 
 
$
(617
) 
 
$
2,613
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Income tax expense (benefit) differed from the amounts computed by applying the U.S. federal income tax
rates of 34% for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively, to income (loss) before provision for income taxes as a result of the following:   
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Income tax expense (benefit) at U.S. statutory rate
  
$
(1,220
) 
 
$
(1,244
) 
 
$
1,895
  

 State taxes, net of valuation allowance
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
30
  
 
 
45
  

 Non-deductible stock compensation
  
 
624
  
 
 
757
  
 
 
645
  

 Effect of non-U.S. operations, net of valuation allowance
  
 
81
  
 
 
48
  
 
 
84
  

 Research tax credits
  
 
(1,333
) 
 
 
(240
) 
 
 
(722
) 

 Other non-deductible expenses
  
 
325
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
666
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense (benefit)
  
$
(1,525
) 
 
$
(617
) 
 
$
2,613
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  82 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the
deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented below:   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Accrued liabilities not currently deductible
  
$
1,384
  
 
$
1,842
  

 Intangible assets-excess of financial statement over tax amortization
  
 
20,093
  
 
 
16,461
  

 Goodwill impairment recognized on financial statements not tax
  
 
24,940
  
 
 
21,282
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
4,890
  
 
 
7,809
  

 Federal net operating losses and AMT credit carryforwards
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,480
  

 State and city net operating loss carryforwards
  
 
3,759
  
 
 
4,481
  

 Research & experimental tax credit carryforwards
  
 
323
  
 
 
1,302
  

 Other
  
 
127
  
 
 
285
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross deferred tax assets
  
 
55,516
  
 
 
54,942
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(3,826
) 
 
 
(4,579
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
 
51,690
  
 
 
50,363
  

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Excess of tax over financial statement depreciation
  
 
52
  
 
 
1,300
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
52
  
 
 
1,300
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
$
51,638
  
 
$
49,063
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2010 and 2011, the Company has certain tax effected state, city, and foreign net
operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $3.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively. The Company does not have a history of taxable income in the relevant jurisdictions and the state, city, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards
will more likely than not expire unutilized. Therefore, the Company has recorded a 100% valuation allowance on the state, city, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2010 and 2011. The change in the valuation allowance
in 2011 was approximately $753,000.  The Company has certain research and experimental tax credits which will begin to expire
in 2029.  In connection with the purchase accounting for certain acquisitions, the Company has recorded approximately $152.9
million in goodwill and $77.4 million of intangible assets that are deductible over 15 years for federal tax purposes.  The
Company has recorded a deferred tax asset for stock-based compensation recorded on unexercised non-qualified stock options and certain restricted shares. The ultimate realization of this asset is dependent upon the fair value of the Company’s
stock when the options are exercised, and generation of sufficient taxable income to realize the benefit of the related tax deduction.  Although realization is not assured, the Company believes it is more likely than not, based on its operating performance, existing deferred tax liabilities, projections of future taxable income and tax
planning strategies, that the Company’s net deferred tax assets, excluding certain state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, will be realized. In determining that it was more likely than not that the Company would realize the deferred
tax assets, factors considered included: historical taxable income, historical trends related to advertiser usage rates, projected revenues and expenses, macroeconomic conditions, issues facing our industry, existing contracts, our ability to
project future results and any appreciation of our other assets. The majority of the deferred tax assets have arisen due to deductions taken in the financial statements related to the impairment of goodwill and the

  83 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 

amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with various acquisitions that are tax-deductible over 15 year periods. Based on projections of future taxable income and tax planning
strategies, the Company expects to be able to recover these assets. The amount of the net deferred tax assets considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if the Company’s projections of future taxable income are reduced or
if the Company does not perform at the levels it is projecting. This could result in increases to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and a corresponding increase to income tax expense of up to the entire net amount of deferred tax
assets.  At December 31, 2010 and 2011, the Company had federal net operating loss carryforwards (excluding Jingle) of
approximately $1.7 million which begin to expire in 2019. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 limits the use of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards in certain situations where changes occur in the stock ownership of a company. The Company
believes that such a change has occurred, and that the utilization of the approximately $1.7 million in carryforwards is limited such that substantially all of these NOL carryforwards will never be utilized. Accordingly, the Company has not included
these federal NOL carryforwards in its deferred tax assets.  In connection with the Jingle acquisition, the Company acquired
federal net operating loss carryforwards (NOL). Where there is a “change in ownership” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, the acquired federal net operating loss carryforwards are subject to an annual
limitation. The Company believes that such an ownership change had occurred at Jingle, and that the utilization of the carryforwards is limited such that the majority of the NOL carryforwards will never be available. Accordingly, the Company has not
recorded those amounts the Company believes it will not be able to utilize and has not included those NOL carryforwards in its deferred tax assets. The Company’s preliminary estimate of NOL carryforwards that may be utilized is approximately
$7.0 million, which will begin to expire in 2026. In 2011, the Company utilized approximately $2.8 million of the acquired NOL carryforwards.  During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, the Company recognized excess tax benefits (shortfall) on stock option exercises, restricted stock vesting, and dividends paid on unvested
restricted stock of approximately ($1.8) million, ($537,000), and $913,000, respectively, which were recorded to additional paid in capital.  From time to time, various state, federal and other jurisdictional tax authorities undertake audits of the Company and its filings. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions,
the Company on occasion accrues charges for uncertain positions. The Company adjusts these contingencies in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. Audits of the Company’s federal tax returns for 2005
through 2009, comprising approximately $463,000 of uncertain tax positions, were settled in 2011. Resolution of uncertain tax positions will impact our effective tax rate when settled. The Company does not have any significant interest or penalty
accruals. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of contingency provisions and changes to contingencies that are considered appropriate. 
  84 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows: 
 








 
  
December 31,2011
 

 Gross tax contingencies—January 1, 2010
  
$
463
 

 Gross increases to tax positions associated with prior periods
  
$
—  
  

 Gross increases to current period tax positions
  
$
83
  

 Settlements
  
$
—  
  

 Lapse of statute of limitations
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 

 Gross tax contingencies—December 31, 2010
  
$
546
  

 Gross increases to tax positions associated with prior periods
  
$
66
  

 Gross increases to current period tax positions
  
$
156
  

 Gross decreases to tax positions associated with prior periods
  
$
(362
) 

 Settlements
  
$
(101
) 

 Lapse of statute of limitations
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 

 Gross tax contingencies—December 31, 2011
  
$
305
  


  
  
  
 
 The Company files U.S. federal, certain U.S. states, and certain foreign tax returns. Generally, U.S.
federal, U.S. state, and foreign tax returns filed for years after 2007 are within the statue of limitations and are under examination or may be subject to examination. 
(6) Stockholders’ Equity 
(a) Common Stock and Authorized Capital 
The authorized capital stock of the Company consisted of 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and 125,000,000 shares of Class
B common stock. The Company’s board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.01 par value in one or more series and has the authority to designate rights, privileges and restrictions of each such
series, including dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting any series. 
The Company has two classes of authorized common stock: Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Except with respect to voting
rights, the Class A and Class B shares have identical rights. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to twenty-five votes per share, and each share of Class B common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of
Class A common stock is convertible at the holder’s option into one share of Class B common stock.  In accordance
with the stockholders’ agreement signed by Class A and the founding Class B common stockholders, the following provisions survived the Company’s initial public offering: Class A stockholders other than Russell C. Horowitz may
only sell, assign or transfer their Class A stock to existing Class A stockholders or to the Company and in the event of transfers of Class A stock not expressly permitted by the stockholders’ agreement, such shares of
Class A stock shall be converted into shares of Class B common stock.  In November 2006, the Company’s board of
directors authorized a share repurchase program for the Company to repurchase up to 3 million shares of the Company’s Class B common stock as well as the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend for the holders of the Class A and Class
B common stock. In 2008 and 2009, the Company’s board of directors authorized various increases in the share repurchase program for the Company to repurchase up to 11 million shares in the aggregate (less shares previously repurchased
under the share 
  85 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 

repurchase program) of the Company’s Class B common stock. In December 2011, the Company’s board of directors authorized an increase in the share repurchase program for the Company to
repurchase up to 12 million shares in the aggregate (less shares previously repurchased under the share repurchase program) of the Company’s Class B common stock. Under the share repurchase program, repurchases may take place in the open
market and in privately negotiated transactions and at times and in such amounts as the Company deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory
requirements, capital availability, and other market conditions. This stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be expanded, limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. During the year ended December 31,
2009, the Company repurchased approximately 2.8 million shares of Class B common stock for $10.7 million under this repurchase program. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company repurchased approximately 1.2 million shares
of Class B common stock for $6.5 million under this repurchase program. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company repurchased approximately 883,000 shares of Class B common stock for $6.2 million under this repurchase program. In
2012, the Company has repurchased 136,000 shares of Class B common stock for a total cash expenditure of approximately $682,000.  During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, the Company’s board of directors authorized the retirement of 1.8 million and 1.0 million shares, respectively, of the Company’s
Class B common stock, all of which had been repurchased by the Company and had been classified as treasury stock on the consolidated balance sheet before retirement. During 2009, 2010 and 2011, the Company’s board of directors declared the
following quarterly dividends on the Company’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock:   
















 Approval Date
  
Per sharedividend
 
  
Date of record
  
Total amount(in 
thousands)
 
  
Payment date

 January 2009
  
$
0.02
  
  
February 6, 2009
  
$
741
  
  
February 17, 2009

 April 2009
  
$
0.02
  
  
May 4, 2009
  
$
716
  
  
May 15, 2009

 July 2009
  
$
0.02
  
  
August 7, 2009
  
$
724
  
  
August 17, 2009

 October 2009
  
$
0.02
  
  
November 6, 2009
  
$
721
  
  
November 16, 2009

 January 2010
  
$
0.02
  
  
February 4, 2010
  
$
706
  
  
February 15, 2010

 April 2010
  
$
0.02
  
  
May 5, 2010
  
$
704
  
  
May 17, 2010

 July 2010
  
$
0.02
  
  
August 6, 2010
  
$
705
  
  
August 16, 2010

 October 2010
  
$
0.02
  
  
November 5, 2010
  
$
701
  
  
November 15, 2010

 January 2011
  
$
0.02
  
  
February 4, 2011
  
$
712
  
  
February 15, 2011

 April 2011
  
$
0.02
  
  
May 6, 2011
  
$
743
  
  
May 16, 2011

 July 2011
  
$
0.02
  
  
August 5, 2011
  
$
738
  
  
August 15, 2011

 October 2011
  
$
0.02
  
  
November 5, 2011
  
$
745
  
  
November 15, 2011
 In January 2012, the Company’s board of directors declared a quarterly dividend in the amount of
$0.02 per share on its Class A common stock and Class B common stock which was paid on February 15, 2012 to the holders of record as of the close of business on February 3, 2012. This quarterly dividend totaled approximately $751,000.
 (b) Stock Option Plan  The Company’s stock incentive plan (the “Plan”) allows for grants of both stock option and restricted stock awards to employees, officers, non-employee directors, and consultants and such
options may be designated as incentive or non-qualified stock options at the discretion of the Plan’s Administrative Committee. In May 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Company’s 2003 Amended and
Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) which provides for the grant of restricted stock units to eligible participants 
  86 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 

under the Plan. The Plan authorizes grants of options to purchase up to 4,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued Class B common stock and provides for the total number of shares of Class B
common stock for which options designated as incentive stock options may be granted shall not exceed 8,000,000 shares. Annual increases are to be added on the first day of each fiscal year beginning on January 1, 2004 equal to 5% of the
outstanding common stock (including for this purpose any shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of any outstanding capital stock of the Company). As a result of this provision, the authorized number of shares available under this Plan was
increased by 1,852,653 to 14,133,174 on January 1, 2009 and by 1,768,421 to 15,901,595 on January 1, 2010 and by 1,774,752 to 17,676,347 on January 1, 2011 and by 1,877,411 to 19,553,758 on January 1, 2012. The Company may issue
new shares or reissue treasury shares for stock option exercises and restricted stock grants. Generally, stock options have 10-year terms and vest 25% each year either annually or quarterly, over a 4 year period. 
The Company did not grant any options with exercise prices less than the then current market value during 2009, 2010 and 2011.
 The Company follows FASB ASC 718 and accounts for stock-based compensation for employees and non-employees under the fair
value method and over the requisite service periods for the individual awards, which generally equals the vesting period. The vesting period of the stock-based award grants may be based on time or combination of time and market conditions. As a
result, stock-based compensation consists of the following:   


 
•
 
 all share-based compensation arrangements granted after January 1, 2006 (adoption date of FASB ASC 718) and for any such arrangements that are
modified, cancelled, or repurchased after that date; and   


 
•
 
 the portion of previous share-based awards for which the requisite service was not rendered as of January 1, 2006. 
Stock-based compensation expense has been included in the same lines as compensation paid to the same employees in the consolidated
statement of operations in accordance with SEC Accounting Bulletin No. 107, Share-based Payment. Stock-based compensation expense was included in the following operating expense categories as follows (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Twelve months ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Service costs
  
$
474
  
  
$
805
  
  
$
1,291
  

 Sales and marketing
  
 
1,400
  
  
 
799
  
  
 
1,505
  

 Product development
  
 
592
  
  
 
1,015
  
  
 
1,416
  

 General and administrative
  
 
7,131
  
  
 
8,213
  
  
 
10,931
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total stock-based compensation
  
$
9,597
  
  
$
10,832
  
  
$
15,143
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 FASB ASC 718 requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of the stock-based compensation cost to be
classified as financing cash inflows rather than operating cash inflows. This amount is shown as “Excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation” on the consolidated statement of cash flows. 
During 2011, the Company’s Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Compensation
Committee”) approved stock option grants of 213,000 and restricted stock grants of 326,000 to certain executive officers. The stock options vest 25% on the first annual anniversary of the grant date and 1/12th of the remainder will vest quarterly thereafter for the following
three years. The restricted shares will vest 25% on each of the first, second, third and fourth annual anniversaries of the grant date. The fair value of these awards is $2.9 million and is being recognized over their respective vesting periods.

  87 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
During 2011, the Compensation Committee also approved equity awards with service and
market vesting conditions to certain executive officers which included 270,000 stock option grants and grants of 90,000 restricted stock units. Each restricted stock unit represents the right to receive one share of the Company’s Class B common
stock upon satisfaction of certain vesting considerations. These equity awards were issued in three separate tranches and each successive tranche will vest on the later of (a) the 12, 21, or 30 month anniversary of the grant date, respectively,
and (b) the Company’s Class B common stock upon reaching certain average stock price targets for each tranche. The fair value of these equity awards is $1.1 million and is being recognized over their requisite service periods. 
The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the per share fair value of stock option grants with time-based
vesting. The Black-Scholes model relies on a number of key assumptions to calculate estimated fair values. For years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, the expected life of each award granted was determined based on historical experience
with similar awards, giving consideration to contractual terms, anticipated exercise patterns, vesting schedules and forfeitures. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility levels of the Company’s Class B common stock and the
expected volatility of companies in similar industries that have similar vesting and contractual terms. The risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield currently available on U.S. Treasury issues with terms approximately equal to the
expected life of the option. The Company uses an expected annual dividend yield in consideration of the Company’s common stock dividend payments which commenced in 2007.  The following weighted average assumptions were used in determining the fair value of time-vested stock option grants for the periods presented: 
 










 
  
Years ended December 31,

 
  
2009
 
2010
 
2011

 Expected life (in years)
  
3.5 – 4.0
 
3.5 – 6.25
 
4.0 – 6.25

 Risk-free interest rate
  
1.41% to 2.20%
 
1.00% to 2.08%
 
0.60% to 1.77%

 Expected volatility
  
64% to 66%
 
66% to 68%
 
68% to 71%

 Weighted average expected volatility
  
65%
 
67%
 
70%

 Expected dividend yield
  
1.10%
 
0.91% to 1.10%
 
0.91%
 During 2011, the Company issued equity awards which include stock options and restricted stock units that
have vesting based on a combination of certain service and market conditions. The compensation costs and derived service periods for stock option grants with vesting based on a combination of service and market conditions are estimated using the
binomial lattice model to determine the fair value for each tranche and a Monte Carlo simulation to determine the derived service period for each tranche. The risk-free interest rate is based on the on 10 year bond rate as of the valuation date
based on the contractual life of the option.  The following weighted average assumptions were used in determining the fair
value for option grants with vesting based on a combination of certain service and market conditions for the periods presented:   








 
  
Years ended December 31,

 
  
2010
  
2011

 Expected life (in years)
  
1.2 – 5.9
  
1.97 – 4.54

 Risk-free interest rate
  
3.36% to 3.56%
  
1.94%

 Expected volatility
  
61%
  
57%

 Weighted average expected volatility
  
61%
  
57%

 Expected dividend yield
  
0.91% to 1.63%
  
1.26%

  88 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
Stock option and restricted stock award activity during the period indicated is as
follows:   
























 
  
Options andRestrictedStockavailable forgrant
 
 
Number ofoptionsoutstanding
 
 
Weightedaverageexercisepriceof options
andrestricted stockoutstanding
 
  
Weightedaverageremainingcontractualterm(in years)
 
  
Aggregateintrinsic value 
(inthousands)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
2,866,863
  
 
 
4,517,154
  
 
$
12.21
  
  
 
6.79
  
  




 Increase to option pool January 1, 2009
  
 
1,852,653
  
 
 
—  
  
 



  



  




 Options granted (1)
  
 
(1,533,300
) 
 
 
1,533,300
  
 
 
4.39
  
  



  




 Restricted stock granted
  
 
(1,178,100
) 
 
 
—  
  
 



  



  




 Restricted stock forfeited
  
 
157,688
  
 
 
—  
  
 



  



  




 Options exercised
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(36,600
) 
 
 
2.23
  
  



  




 Options expired
  
 
815,388
  
 
 
(815,388
) 
 
 
13.96
  
  



  




 Options forfeited
  
 
497,315
  
 
 
(497,315
) 
 
 
10.69
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
3,478,507
  
 
 
4,701,151
  
 
$
9.59
  
  
 
5.61
  
  




 Increase to option pool January 1, 2010
  
 
1,768,421
  
 



 



  



  




 Options granted (2)
  
 
(2,376,450
) 
 
 
2,376,450
  
 
 
6.62
  
  



  




 Restricted stock granted
  
 
(1,613,000
) 
 
 
—  
 
 



  



  




 Restricted stock forfeited
  
 
82,250
  
 
 
—  
  
 



  



  




 Options exercised
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(81,974
) 
 
 
4.54
  
  



  




 Options expired
  
 
296,214
  
 
 
(296,214
) 
 
 
13.49
  
  



  




 Options forfeited
  
 
288,824
  
 
 
(288,824
) 
 
 
7.12
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,924,766
  
 
 
6,410,589
  
 
$
8.48
  
  
 
7.20
  
  




 Increase to option pool January 1, 2011
  
 
1,774,752
  
 



 



  



  




 Options granted (2)
  
 
(1,735,950
) 
 
 
1,735,950
 
 
 
7.28
 
  



  




 Restricted stock granted
  
 
(1,603,899
) 
 
 
—  
  
 



  



  




 Restricted stock forfeited
  
 
62,125
  
 
 
—  
  
 



  



  




 Options exercised
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(410,662
)
 
 
4.28
  
  



  




 Options expired
  
 
277,775
  
 
 
(277,775
) 
 
 
14.47
  
  



  




 Options forfeited
  
 
254,318
  
 
 
(254,318
) 
 
 
6.70
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
953,887
  
 
 
7,203,784
  
 
$
8.24
  
  
 
6.81
  
  
$
5,971
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Options exercisable at December 31, 2011(3)
  



 
 
3,771,796
  
 
$
9.42
  
  
 
5.28
  
  
$
2,715
  
  


(1)
Includes 880,000 stock options which vest over 2 years. 


(2)
Includes 765,000 and 313,400 stock options issued in 2010 and 2011, respectively, which have vesting based on a combination of certain service and market conditions.



(3)
Includes 195,000 stock options which have vested based on meeting a combination of certain service and market conditions. 
  89 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and
exercisable options at December 31, 2011:   
























 Options Outstanding
 
  
Options Exercisable
 

 Range of exercise prices per share
  
NumberOutstanding
 
  
Average remainingcontractual
life(in years)
 
  
Weighted AverageExercise
priceper share
 
  
Numberexercisable
 
  
Weighted averageexercise
priceper share
 

 $  3.00 – $  4.52
  
 
439,671
  
  
 
3.75
  
  
$
3.33
  
  
 
353,937
  
  
 
3.19
  

 $  4.53 – $  4.63
  
 
714,056
  
  
 
7.59
  
  
 
4.63
  
  
 
706,743
  
  
 
4.63
  

 $  4.64 – $  4.89
  
 
845,394
  
  
 
8.03
  
  
 
4.85
  
  
 
252,404
  
  
 
4.83
  

 $  4.90 – $  5.63
  
 
416,335
  
  
 
7.47
  
  
 
5.41
  
  
 
156,538
  
  
 
5.44
  

 $  5.66 – $  6.35
  
 
1,095,100
  
  
 
9.44
  
  
 
6.34
  
  
 
8,149
  
  
 
5.96
  

 $  6.38 – $  8.76
  
 
608,175
  
  
 
5.43
  
  
 
7.21
  
  
 
299,611
  
  
 
6.73
  

 $  8.77 – $  8.77
  
 
891,000
  
  
 
8.46
  
  
 
8.77
  
  
 
209,037
  
  
 
8.77
  

 $  8.81 – $11.01
  
 
744,067
  
  
 
6.39
  
  
 
9.89
  
  
 
346,963
  
  
 
10.20
  

 $11.02 – $12.93
  
 
789,786
  
  
 
4.70
  
  
 
12.02
  
  
 
778,214
  
  
 
12.02
  

 $12.94 – $24.54
  
 
660,200
  
  
 
3.62
  
  
 
18.57
  
  
 
660,200
  
  
 
18.57
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  





  
 
7,203,784
  
  
 
6.81
  
  
$
8.24
  
  
 
3,771,796
  
  
$
9.42
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  



 Information related to stock compensation activity during the period indicated is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Weighted average fair value of options granted
  
$
4.39
  
  
$
6.62
  
  
$
3.54
  

 Intrinsic value of options exercised (in thousands)
  
$
79
  
  
$
293
  
  
$
1,885
  

 Total grant date fair value of restricted stock vested (in thousands)
  
$
9,898
  
  
$
5,023
  
  
$
4,056
  
 At December 31, 2011, there was $7.9 million of stock option compensation expense related to
non-vested awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years  During
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 gross proceeds recognized from the exercise of stock options was approximately $82,000, $372,000 and $1.8 million, respectively. The net excess tax benefit (shortfall) on stock option exercises,
restricted stock vesting, and dividends paid on unvested restricted stock during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, of approximately ($1.8) million, ($537,000) and $913,000, respectively, were recorded to additional paid in
capital. 
  90 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
Restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit activity for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 is summarized as follows:   












 
  
Shares/Units
 
 
Weighted AverageGrant
DateFair Value
 

 Unvested at December 31, 2008
  
 
2,348,968
  
 
$
12.55
  

 Granted
  
 
1,178,100
  
 
 
3.86
  

 Vested
  
 
(827,578
) 
 
 
11.96
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(157,688
) 
 
 
7.95
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unvested at December 31, 2009
  
 
2,541,802
  
 
$
8.99
  

 Granted (1)
  
 
1,613,000
  
 
 
6.67
  

 Vested
  
 
(603,802
) 
 
 
8.32
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(82,250
) 
 
 
4.52
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unvested at December 31, 2010
  
 
3,468,750
  
 
$
8.13
  

 Granted (1)
  
 
1,603,899
  
 
 
7.20
  

 Vested
  
 
(721,500
) 
 
 
5.63
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(62,125
) 
 
 
6.42
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Unvested at December 31, 2011
  
 
4,289,024
  
 
$
8.23
  
  


(1)
Includes 255,000 and 104,100 restricted stock units issued in 2010 and 2011, respectively, which entitle the holder to receive one share of the Company’s Class B
common stock upon satisfaction of certain service and market conditions.  The Company issues restricted stock to
employees for future services and in connection with acquisitions. Restricted stock awards grants are generally measured at fair value on the date of grant based on the number of awards granted and the quoted price of the Company’s common
stock. Restricted shares issued are accounted for under FASB ASC 718 using the straight-line method net of estimated forfeitures.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued equity awards which include stock options and restricted stock units that have vesting based on a combination of certain service and market
conditions. The compensation costs and derived service periods for restricted stock units with vesting based on a combination of service and market conditions are estimated using the binomial lattice model to determine the fair value for each
tranche and a Monte Carlo simulation to determine the derived service period for each tranche. As of December 31, 2011, there was $19.5 million of total restricted stock compensation expense related to non-vested awards not yet recognized,
which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.2 years. The total grant date fair value of restricted stock awards vested during years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 was $9.9 million, $5.0 million and $4.1
million, respectively. The Company realized a tax benefit in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 related to the vesting of restricted shares of approximately $1.2 million, $640,000 and $544,000, respectively. 
The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to all stock-based awards (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Stock-based compensation:
  



  



  




 Total stock-based compensation included in net income (loss)
  
$
9,597
  
  
$
10,832
  
  
$
15,143
  

 Income tax benefit related to stock-based compensation included in net income (loss)
  
$
2,723
  
  
$
3,012
  
  
$
5,048
  
 In August 2009, vesting of approximately 118,000 restricted shares were fully accelerated in connection
with separation agreements. 
  91 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
(c) Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
On February 15, 2004, the Company’s board of directors and stockholders approved the 2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which
became effective on March 30, 2004. The Company has authorized an aggregate of 300,000 shares of Class B common stock for issuance under the plan to participating employees. 
The original plan provided eligible employees the opportunity to purchase the Company’s Class B common stock for amounts up to 15%
of their compensation during offering periods. Under the plan, no employee was permitted to purchase stock worth more than $25,000 in any calendar year, valued as of the first day of each offering period. 
In December 2005, the compensation committee of the Company’s board of directors amended the 2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan to
provide that effective January 1, 2006 eligible participants may purchase the Company’s Class B common stock under the purchase plan at a price equal to 95% of the fair value on the last day of an offering period. During the year ended
December 31, 2009, 10,638 shares were purchased at prices ranging from $3.22 to $4.83 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2010, 3,304 shares were purchased at prices ranging from $3.66 to $9.06 per share. During the year ended
December 31, 2011, 3,637 shares were purchased at prices ranging from $5.94 to $8.44 per share. At December 31, 2011, approximately 224,000 shares were available under the purchase plan for future issuance. 
(7) Contingencies 
The Company is involved in legal and administrative proceedings and claims of various types from time to time. While
any litigation contains an element of uncertainty, the Company is not aware of any legal proceedings or claims which are pending that the Company believes, based on current knowledge, will have, individually or taken together, a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations or liquidity.  In some agreements to which we are a
party, we have agreed to indemnification provisions of varying scope and terms with advertisers, vendors and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of the Company’s breach of agreements
or representations and warranties made by the Company, services to be provided by the Company and intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. As a result of these provisions, we may from time to time provide certain levels
of financial support to our contract parties to seek to minimize the impact of any associated litigation in which they may be involved. To date, there have been no known events or circumstances that have resulted in any material costs related
to these indemnification provisions and no liabilities therefore have been recorded in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. However, the maximum potential amount of the future payments we could be required to
make under these indemnification provisions could be material. 
(8) 401(k) Savings Plan 
The Company has a Retirement/Savings Plan (401(k) Plan) under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code which covers those employees that meet eligibility requirements. Eligible employees may contribute up to the Internal Revenue Code prescribed maximum amounts. During 2011, the Company elected to match a portion of the employee contributions up
to a defined maximum. No cash matching contributions were made in 2011. 
  92 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
(9) Acquisition 
On April 7, 2011, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of Jingle, a provider of mobile voice search performance
advertising and technology solutions in North America for the following consideration:   


 
•
 
 Approximately $15.8 million in cash, net of cash acquired, and 1,019,103 shares of the Company’s Class B common stock paid at closing; and
  


 
•
 
 Future consideration of (i) $17.6 million, net of certain working capital adjustments, on the first annual anniversary of the closing, and
(ii) $18.0 million on the 18th month anniversary of closing, with the future consideration payable in either cash or shares of the Company’s Class B common stock or some combination to be determined by the Company. Any shares issued in
payment of the future consideration will be increased by 5%. The future consideration is recorded as current deferred acquisition payments in the balance sheet. 
 


 
•
 
 Following the closing, the Company issued 462,247 shares of restricted stock at an aggregate value of approximately $3.3 million to employees of
Jingle, subject to vesting for up to four years.  The Company accounted for the Jingle acquisition as a
business combination. As a result of the acquisition, the Company added additional sources of mobile distribution to its call advertising network. The Company has progressed in its integration of Jingle’s operations, including sales activities,
and accordingly, revenues and earnings of the acquired operations are not readily separable.  The fair value of the shares of
Class B common stock issued as part of the consideration paid was valued at $7.6 million using the Company’s closing stock price of $7.46 per share at the acquisition date. The fair value of the future consideration payments of $34.7 million
was discounted using a rate of approximately 2% based on the Company’s incremental borrowing rate and is recorded on the balance sheet as deferred acquisition payments. Acquisition related costs of approximately $1.9 million for 2011 were
primarily for professional fees to perform due diligence, historical audits and other procedures associated with the acquisition. Of the $1.9 million of acquisition related costs, we recognized approximately $372,000 for the future obligations of
non-cancelable lease and other costs related to the Jingle office. The portion related to the non-cancelable lease is based on estimates of vacancy period and sublease income. The actual vacancy periods may differ from these estimates, and sublease
income, if any, may not materialize. Accordingly, these estimates may be adjusted in future periods.  In connection with the
acquisition, the Company acquired federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL”). Where there is a “change in ownership” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, the acquired federal net
operating loss carryforwards are subject to an annual limitation. The Company believes that such an ownership change had occurred at Jingle, and that the utilization of the carryforwards is limited such that the majority of the NOL carryforwards
will never be utilized. Accordingly, the Company has not recorded those amounts the Company believes it will not be able to utilize and has not included those NOL carryforwards and research and development credit carryforwards in its deferred tax
assets. The Company’s preliminary estimate of NOL carryforwards that may be utilized is approximately $7.0 million. A preliminary deferred tax asset relating to these NOL carryforwards was recorded during the three months ended
December 31, 2011 with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill of approximately $2.4 million. The Company has not completed its analysis of the limitations associated with these NOL carryfowards or the Company’s ability to utilize them. The
allocation of the purchase price is preliminary. 
  93 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
A summary of the consideration for the acquisition is as follows (in thousands):
  








 Cash
  
$
 16,563
  

 Stock issued
  
 
7,603
  

 Future consideration
  
 
34,695
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
58,861
  


  
  
  
 
 The following summarizes the preliminary allocation of the fair value of the assets acquired and the
liabilities assumed at December 31, 2011 (in thousands):   








 Cash acquired
  
$
 761
  

 Accounts receivable
  
 
4,658
  

 Deferred tax assets
  
 
2,567
  

 Other current assets
  
 
62
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
215
  

 Other non-current assets
  
 
148
  

 Intangible assets
  
 
11,966
  

 Goodwill
  
 
47,334
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
 
67,711
  

 Current liabilities
  
 
(5,512
) 

 Deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(3,246
) 

 Other non-current liabilities
  
 
(92
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities assumed
  
 
(8,850
) 


  
  
  
 

 Net assets acquired
  
$
58,861
  


  
  
  
 
 The acquired intangible assets of approximately $12.0 million consist primarily of customer and partner
relationships, technology, trademarks and patents which will be amortized over 12 to 36 months (weighted average of 2.4 years) using the straight line method. The goodwill and acquired intangible assets will not be deductible for federal tax
purposes.  The following unaudited pro forma financial information summarizes the combined results of operations of the
Company and Jingle and is based on the historical results of operations of the Company and Jingle. The pro forma information reflects the results of operations of the Company as if the acquisition of Jingle had taken place on January 1, 2010.
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the year ended December 31, 2010 combine the historical results of operations for the Company and Jingle for the year ended December 31, 2010. The unaudited pro forma financial information
for the year ended December 31, 2011 combine the historical results of operations for the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011 and Jingle’s historical results of operations during the pre-acquisition period from
January 1, 2011 to April 7, 2011. The pro forma information includes adjustments for amortization of intangible assets, intercompany activity and accretion of interest expense related to the future consideration. The unaudited pro forma
financial information is provided for information purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the combined results that would have occurred had the acquisition taken place on the dates indicated, nor is it necessarily indicative of results
that may occur in the future.   












(in thousands)
  
Years ended December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Revenue
  
$
113,628
  
 
$
152,517
  

 Net income (loss)
  
 
(14,760
) 
 
 
1,830
  

 Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders
  
 
(14,959
) 
 
 
1,570
  

  94 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 
(10) Intangible Assets from Acquisitions 
Intangible assets from acquisitions consisted of the following (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
As of December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Gross CarryingAmount (1)
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization (1)
 
 
Net
 

 Trademarks/domains
  
$
41,992
  
  
$
(40,415
) 
 
$
1,577
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Gross CarryingAmount (1)
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization (1)
 
 
Net
 

 Advertiser relationship
  
$
3,070
  
  
$
(897
) 
 
$
2,173
  

 Patents
  
 
318
  
  
 
(232
) 
 
 
86
  

 Distribution partner relationship
  
 
4,830
  
  
 
(1,177
) 
 
 
3,653
  

 Non-compete agreements
  
 
58
  
  
 
(43
) 
 
 
15
  

 Trademarks/domains
  
 
40,539
  
  
 
(40,130
) 
 
 
409
  

 Acquired technology
  
 
2,760
  
  
 
(1,008
) 
 
 
1,752
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
51,575
  
  
$
(43,487
) 
 
$
8,088
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangible assets which were $41.7 million and $42.6 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively.  Amortizable intangible assets are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their useful lives. Advertiser relationships, patents, distribution partner relationships, non-compete agreements, trademark/domains and acquired technology have weighted average useful life from date of purchase of 2.5
years, 1.0 year, 3.0 years, 1.0 year, 4.8 years and 2.0 years, respectively. Aggregate amortization expense incurred by the Company for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, was approximately $5.5 million, $2.7 million and $5.5
million, respectively. Based upon the current amount of acquired intangible assets subject to amortization, the estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as follows: $4.7 million in 2012, $2.9 million in 2013, $433,000 in 2014, and
$0 thereafter. 
(11) Goodwill 
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011 are as follows (in
thousands):   








 Balance as of December 31, 2009
  
$
 35,438
  

 Other
  
 
(101
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2010
  
 
35,337
  

 Jingle acquisition
  
 
47,344
  

 Other
  
 
(37
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance as of December 31, 2011
  
$
82,644
  


  
  
  
 
 The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires the Company to make
significant estimates about its future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations,
changes in competition or changes in the share price of the Company’s common stock and market capitalization. Significant and sustained declines in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, a

  95 


Table of Contents
MARCHEX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—(Continued) 
 

significant decline in its expected future cash flows or a significant adverse change in the Company’s business climate, among other factors, could result in the need to perform an
impairment analysis under FASB ASC 350 in future interim periods. The Company cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets
become impaired, the Company would record an impairment charge, which could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.  No impairment of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets have been identified in 2011. The current business environment is subject to evolving market conditions and requires significant
management judgment to interpret the potential impact to our assumptions. To the extent that changes in the current business environment impact the Company’s ability to achieve levels of forecasted operating results and cash flows, or should
other events occur indicating the remaining carrying value of its assets might be impaired, the Company would test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment and may recognize an additional impairment loss. 
(12) Intangible and other assets, net 
Intangible and other assets, net consisted of the following (in thousands): 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2010
 
 
2011
 

 Internet domain names
  
$
15,683
  
 
$
15,256
  

 Less accumulated amortization
  
 
(13,877
) 
 
 
(14,535
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Internet domain names, net
  
 
1,806
  
 
 
721
  

 Other assets:
  



 




 Registration fees, net
  
 
35
  
 
 
1,142
  

 Other
  
 
229
  
 
 
328
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total intangibles and other assets, net
  
$
2,070
  
 
$
2,191
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The Company capitalizes costs incurred to acquire domain names or URLs, which include the initial
registration fees, to other intangible assets which excludes intangible assets acquired through business combinations. The capitalized costs are amortized over the expected useful life of the domain names on a straight-line basis. The Company also
capitalizes costs incurred to renew or extend the term of the domain names or URLs to prepaid expenses and other current assets or registration fees, net. The capitalized costs are amortized over the renewal or extended period on a straight-line
basis. The total amount of costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2011 to renew or extend the term for domain names was $2.2 million. The weighted average renewal period for registration fees as of December 31, 2011 was
approximately 1.0 year.  Amortization expense for Internet domain names for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and
2011, was approximately $2.0 million, $1.6 million and $1.2 million, respectively.  Based upon the current amount of domains
subject to amortization, the estimated expense for the next five years is as follows: $506,000 in 2012, $175,000 in 2013, $40,000 in 2014 and $0 thereafter. 
(13) Subsequent Events 
In January 2012, the Company’s board of directors declared a regular quarterly dividend in the amount $0.02 per
share on the Company’s Class A and Class B common stock. The Company paid these dividends on February 15, 2012 to the holders of record as of the close of business on February 3, 2012. The Company paid approximately $751,000 for
these quarterly dividends. 
  96 


Table of Contents


ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. 
None.   


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.  Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation,
under the supervision and with the participation of our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of our “disclosure controls and procedures” (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer have concluded that, as of the date of the evaluation, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  (a) Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting  Management of Marchex, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(c). In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth in the framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2011.  (b) Report of the registered public accounting firm 
The report of KPMG LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  (c) Changes in Internal
Control over Financial Reporting  During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, no change was made to our internal
control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls  In designing and evaluating
the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can not provide absolute assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. 
In addition, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
  


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION.  None.

  97 


Table of Contents
PART III 
 


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.  The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy statement relating to the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders (the “2012 Proxy
Statement”), which the Company intends to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of the Company’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  Our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Financial Officers is available on our web site, www.marchex.com, by clicking “Investor Relations” and then
“Governance Documents”.   


ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. 
The information required under this item may be found in the 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS. 
The information required under this item may be found in the 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.  The information required under this item may be found in the 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.  The information required under this item may be found in the 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  98 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.   


1.
The following financial statements are included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K: 
 


 
•
 
 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm; 
 


 
•
 
 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2011; 
 


 
•
 
 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011; 
 


 
•
 
 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011; 
 


 
•
 
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011; and 
 


 
•
 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   


2.
Financial Statement Schedules 
Financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is provided in
the consolidated financial statements or notes described in Item 15 (a) (1) above.   


3.
We have filed, or incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference, the exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page of this
Form 10-K. 
  99 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized in the City of Seattle, State of Washington on March 12, 2012.   






 MARCHEX, INC.




 By:
 
 /S/    MICHAEL M.
MILLER        


 
 Michael M. Miller Senior VP Accounting and Corporate Controller (Principal Accounting
Officer)
 POWER OF ATTORNEY  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Russell C. Horowitz and Michael A. Arends, jointly and severally, as his or her
attorneys-in-fact, each with the full power of substitution, for him or her, in any and all capacities, to sign any amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting to said attorneys-in-fact, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as
fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact or any of them, or their or his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   






 Signature
  
 Date




 /S/    RUSSELL C.
HOROWITZ         Russell C. Horowitz
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
  
March 12, 2012




 /S/    MICHAEL A.
ARENDS         Michael A. Arends
Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
  
March 12, 2012




 /S/    JOHN
KEISTER         John Keister
Executive Vice Chairman and Director
  
March 12, 2012




 /S/    DENNIS
CLINE         Dennis Cline
Director
  
March 12, 2012




 /S/    ANNE
DEVEREUX         Anne Devereux
Director
  
March 12, 2012
  100



Table of Contents






 Signature
  
 Date




 /S/    NICOLAS J.
HANAUER         Nicolas J. Hanauer
Vice Chairman and Director
  
March 12, 2012




 /S/    M. WAYNE
WISEHART           M. Wayne Wisehart
Director
  
March 12, 2012

  101



Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description of Document




        2.1
  
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 19, 2003, by and among the Registrant, Marchex Acquisition Corporation, eFamily.com, Inc., the Shareholders of eFamily.com, Inc.,
ah-ha.com, Inc. and Paul J. Brockbank, as Stockholder Representative (Filed with the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on December 11, 2003 and incorporated herein by
reference).




        2.2
  
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 1, 2003, by and among the Registrant, Sitewise Acquisition Corporation, TrafficLeader, Inc., the Shareholders of TrafficLeader,
Inc. and Gerald Wiant, as Shareholder Representative (Filed with the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on December 11, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference).




        2.3
  
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 21, 2004, by and among the Registrant, Project TPS, Inc., goClick.com, Inc and the Sole Stockholder of goClick.com, Inc. (Filed with
the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 filed with the SEC on March 10, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference).




        2.4
  
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 19, 2004, by and among the Registrant, Name Development Ltd. and the Sole Stockholder of Name Development Ltd. (Filed with the
Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-121213) filed with the SEC on December 13, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).




        2.5
  
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 26, 2005, by and among the Registrant, Pike Street Industries, Inc. and the holders of all the issued and outstanding capital stock of
Pike Street Industries, Inc. (Filed with the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference).




        2.6
  
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 27, 2005, by and among the Registrant, Einstein Holdings I, Inc., Einstein Holdings 2, LLC, IndustryBrains, Inc., the primary
shareholders of IndustryBrains, Inc. and with respect to Articles II, VII and XII only, Eric Matlick as shareholder representative (Filed with the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with
the SEC on March 14, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference).




  †††2.7
  
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 1, 2006, by and among the Registrant, MDNH, Inc., AreaConnect LLC and the holder of all of the issued and outstanding ownership interests
of AreaConnect LLC.




  †††2.8
  
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 26, 2006, by and among the Registrant, MDNH, Inc., OpenList, Inc., Brian Harriman, the stockholders of OpenList, Inc., and with respect to
the Articles VI and XI only, Brad Gerstner as stockholder representative.




        2.9
  
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 9, 2007, by and among Registrant, VoiceStar, Inc., and the Shareholders of VoiceStar, Inc (Filed with the Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 24, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference).




      +2.10
  
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 7, 2011, by and among the Registrant, Marchex Acquisition Corporation, Jingle Networks, Inc. and with respect to Articles II, V and
VIII only, Chip Hazard as the Stockholder Representative (Filed with the Registrant’s Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-174016) filed with the SEC on June 29, 2011 and incorporated herein by
reference).




        3.1
  
Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on December 11, 2003 and
incorporated herein by reference).
  102



Table of Contents








 ExhibitNumber
 
  
 Description of Document

 
3.2
  
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant (Filed with Registrant’s Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed
with the SEC on March 19, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
3.3
  
  
By-laws of the Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on December 11, 2003 and incorporated
herein by reference).




 
3.4
  
  
Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 10, 2007 and incorporated herein by
reference).




 
4.1
  
  
Specimen stock certificate representing shares of Class B Common Stock of the Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s Amendment No. 3 to the Registration Statement on Form SB-2
(No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on March 30, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
*10.1
  
  
Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (Filed with the Registrant’s Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on
March 19, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
*10.2
  
  
Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of January 17, 2003, by and between Russell C. Horowitz and the Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s Registration Statement on
Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on December 11, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
*10.3
  
  
Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of May 1, 2003, by and between Michael A. Arends and the Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s Amendment No. 1 to the Registration
Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on February 19, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
*10.4
  
  
2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Filed with the Registrant’s Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on February 19,
2004 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
10.5
  
  
Representative Director and Officer Indemnification Agreement, dated as of February 4, 2004, by and between Russell C. Horowitz and the Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s
Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-111096) filed with the SEC on March 19, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
+10.6
  
  
License Agreement, effective February 14, 2005, by and between Overture Services, Inc. and Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
*10.7
  
  
2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended on December 8, 2005 (Filed with the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with
the SEC on March 14, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
†††*10.8
  
  
Marchex, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan.




 
*10.9
  
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (Filed with the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 3, 2006 and incorporated herein by
reference).




 
†††*10.10
  
  
Form of Retention Agreement.




 
+10.11
  
  
Master Services and License Agreement dated as of October 1, 2007, by and between MDNH, Inc. and YellowPages.com LLC. (Filed with the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 filed with the SEC on March 11, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference).
  103



Table of Contents








 ExhibitNumber
 
  
 Description of Document




 
    +10.12
  
  
Credit Agreement dated as of April 1, 2008, by and between the Registrant, the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties to the agreement,
and U.S. Bank National Association, as administrative agent. (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 11, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
    +10.13
  
  
Advertising Insertion Order dated as of July 1, 2007, as amended, by and between the Registrant, MDNH, Inc. and Intelius Sales Company, LLC (Filed with the Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 filed with the SEC on March 10, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
    *10.14
  
  
Form of Retention Agreement Amendment (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 7, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference).




 
    *10.15
  
  
Revised Form of Retention Agreement (Filed with Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 7, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference).




 
    *10.16
  
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement Amendment (Filed with Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 7, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference).




 
    *10.17
  
  
First Amendment to Executive Employment Agreement effective as of May 8, 2009, by and between Michael A. Arends and the Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 7, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
    *10.18
  
  
Revised Form of Executive Restricted Stock Agreement (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 7, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference).




 
    *10.19
  
  
Form of Director Restricted Stock Agreement (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 7, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference).




 
      10.20
  
  
Amended and Restated Lease effective as of June 5, 2009, between 520 Pike Street, Inc. and the Registrant (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with
the SEC on August 7, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
    *10.21
  
  
Form of Executive Officer Stock Option Agreement (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on November 9, 2009 and incorporated herein
by reference).




 
    +10.22
  
  
Amendment No. 4 to Advertising Insertion Order effective as of December 31, 2009, by and between the Registrant, MDNH, Inc. and Intelius Sales Company, LLC (Filed with the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 filed with the SEC on March 10, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
    +10.23
  
  
Amendment No. 1 to Master Services and License Agreement effective as of April 30, 2010, by the between MDNH, Inc. and YellowPages.com LLC d/b/a AT&T Interactive and
related Project Addendum No. 1, effective as of January 1, 2009, as amended (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 6, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference).




 
    *10.24
  
  
Form of Notice of Grant of Executive Officer Stock Option (Performance-Based) (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 6, 2010
and incorporated herein by reference).




 
    *10.25
  
  
Form of Notice of Grant of Executive Officer Stock Option (Time-Based) (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 6, 2010 and
incorporated herein by reference).




 
    *10.26
  
  
Form of Notice of Grant of Executive Officer Restricted Stock Units (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 6, 2010 and
incorporated herein by reference).




 
    *10.27
  
  
Form of Executive Officer Restricted Stock Agreement (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 6, 2010 and incorporated herein by
reference).
  104



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description of Document

    *10.28
  
Form of Executive Officer Restricted Stock Units Agreement (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 6, 2010 and incorporated
herein by reference).




    +10.29
  
Amendments No. 1, 2 and 3 to YAHOO! Publisher Network Service Order, effective as of September 25, 2007, August 1, 2008 and June 1, 2010 respectively, by and between Yahoo! Inc., as
successor in interest to Overture Services, Inc., and Yahoo! Sarl, as successor in interest to Overture Search Services (Ireland) Limited, MDNH, Inc. and MDNH International Ltd. (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed
with the SEC on August 6, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference).




    *10.30
  
Amendment to the Marchex, Inc. 2003 Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (Filed with the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 6, 2010
and incorporated herein by reference).




    *10.31
  
Marchex, Inc. Amended and Restated Annual Incentive Plan (Filed with the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC
on March 14, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference).




    †10.32
  
First Amendment to the Credit Agreement made and entered into as of March 1, 2011, by and among the Registrant, the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from
time to time parties to the agreement, and U.S. Bank National Association, as administrative agent.




    †21.1
  
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.




    †23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




      24.1
  
Power of Attorney (incorporated herein by reference to the signature page of the Annual Report on Form 10-K)




    †31(i)
  
Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




    †31(ii)
  
Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




  ††32
  
Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.




**101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document.




**101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.




**101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.




**101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.




**101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document.




**101.PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document.
  


*
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 


**
In accordance with Regulation S-T, the XBRL-related information in Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall be deemed to be “furnished” and not
“filed.” 


(+)
Certain information in this agreement has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Confidential treatment has been granted with
respect to the omitted portions. 


†
Filed herewith. 


††
Furnished herewith. 


†††
Refiled herewith pursuant to Regulation S-K Item 10. 
  105




