
10-K
1
a2207726z10-k.htm
10-K







Use these links to rapidly review the document
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA









 
Table of Contents 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  
Form 10-K  











ý
 
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011


 or


o
 
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the transition period from            to           




 Commission file number: 001-32136  
Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 








Maryland
(State or other jurisdiction
of incorporation)
 
 20-0057959
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)


 333 Earle Ovington Boulevard, Suite 900
Uniondale, NY
(Address of principal executive offices)
 

11553
(Zip Code)


 (516) 506-4200
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)



Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 








Title of Each Class 
 
Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 


Common stock, par value $0.01 per share
 
The New York Stock Exchange



Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
         Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes o    No ý 
         Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes o    No ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and
post such files). Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 















Large accelerated filer o
 
Accelerated filer ý
 
Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a
smaller reporting company)
 
Smaller reporting company o




         Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes o    No ý 
         The aggregate market value of the registrant's common stock, all of which is voting, held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30,
2011 (computed based on the closing price on such date as reported on the NYSE) was $82.4 million. As of March 2, 2012, the registrant had 24,142,970 shares of common stock outstanding
(excluding 2,650,767 shares held in treasury). 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
         Portions of the definitive proxy statement for the registrant's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2012 Proxy Statement"), to be filed within
120 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  

   


 














 
 
 
  INDEX     

 
















 
 
 
 
PAGE 
 


  PART I
 


 ITEM 1.
 
 BUSINESS
 
 

1
 


 ITEM 1A.
 
 RISK FACTORS
 
 
17
 


 ITEM 1B.
 
 UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
 
 
37
 


 ITEM 2.
 
 PROPERTIES
 
 
37
 


 ITEM 3.
 
 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
 
37
 


 ITEM 4.
 
 RESERVED
 
 
37
 



PART II
 


 ITEM 5.
 
 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 
 

38
 


 ITEM 6.
 
 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
43
 


 ITEM 7.
 
 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
45
 


 ITEM 7A.
 
 QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
 
89
 


 ITEM 8.
 
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
 
92
 


 ITEM 9.
 
 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
 
180
 


 ITEM 9A.
 
 CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
 
 
180
 


 ITEM 9B.
 
 OTHER INFORMATION
 
 
184
 



PART III
 


 ITEM 10.
 
 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
 

184
 


 ITEM 11.
 
 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
 
184
 


 ITEM 12.
 
 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
 
184
 


 ITEM 13.
 
 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
 
 
184
 


 ITEM 14.
 
 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
 
 
184
 



PART IV
 


 ITEM 15.
 
 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
 

185
 


 EX-21.1:
 
 SUBSIDIARIES OF ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC.
 
 
 
 


 EX-23.1:
 
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
 
 
 


 EX-31.1:
 
 CERTIFICATION
 
 
 
 


 EX-31.2:
 
 CERTIFICATION
 
 
 
 


 EX-32.1:
 
 CERTIFICATION
 
 
 
 


 EX-32.2:
 
 CERTIFICATION
 
 
 
 









 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS     
        This report contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, the operating performance of our investments and financing needs. Forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by use of
forward-looking terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "potential," "intend," "expect," "endeavor," "seek," "anticipate," "estimate," "overestimate," "underestimate," "believe," "could,"
"project," "predict," "continue" or other similar words or expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions, discuss future expectations, describe future plans and strategies,
contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or state other forward-looking information. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is
inherently uncertain. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our actual results and performance could differ
materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results in future periods
to differ materially from forecasted results. Factors that could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future prospects include, but are not limited to, changes in economic conditions
generally and the real estate market specifically; adverse changes in the financing markets we access affecting our ability to finance our loan and investment portfolio; changes in interest rates; the
quality and size of the investment pipeline and the rate at which we can invest our cash; impairments in the value of the collateral underlying our loans and investments; changes in the
markets; legislative/regulatory changes; completion of pending investments; the availability and cost of capital for future investments; competition within the finance and real estate industries; and
other risks detailed from time to time in our SEC reports. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management's views as of the
date of this report. The factors noted above could cause our actual results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement. For a discussion of our critical accounting
policies, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries—Significant Accounting Estimates
and Critical Accounting Policies" under Item 7 of this report. 
        Although
we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results. 
i




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART I     
 
    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS     
 Overview  
        Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. is a specialized real estate finance company that invests in a diversified portfolio of structured
finance assets in the multi-family and commercial real estate markets. We invest primarily in real estate-related bridge and mezzanine loans, including junior participating interests in first
mortgages, preferred and direct equity, and in limited cases, discounted mortgage notes and other real estate-related assets, which we refer to collectively as structured finance investments. We also
hold investments in mortgage-related securities and real estate property. Our principal business objective is to maximize the difference between the yield on our investments and the cost of financing
these investments to generate cash available for distribution, facilitate capital appreciation and maximize total return to our stockholders. 
        We
are organized to qualify as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for federal income tax purposes. A REIT is generally not subject to federal income tax on that portion of its REIT
taxable income ("Taxable Income") that is distributed to its stockholders, provided that at least 90% of Taxable Income is distributed and provided that certain other requirements are met. Certain of
our assets that produce non-qualifying income are held in taxable REIT subsidiaries. Unlike other subsidiaries of a REIT, the income of a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to federal and
state income taxes. 
        We
commenced operations in July 2003 and conduct substantially all of our operations and investing activities through our operating partnership, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries. We serve as the general partner of our operating partnership, and own a 100% partnership interest in our operating partnership as of December 31, 2011. 
        We
are externally managed and advised by Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC ("ACM"), a national commercial real estate finance company that specializes in debt and equity financing
for multi-family and commercial real estate, pursuant to the terms of a management agreement described below. ACM provides us with all of the services vital to our operations other than asset
management, securitization and certain credit functions, and our executive officers and other staff are all employed by our manager, ACM, pursuant to the management agreement. The management agreement
requires ACM to manage our business affairs in conformity with the policies and investment guidelines that are approved and monitored by our Board of Directors. 
        We
believe ACM's experience and reputation positions it to originate attractive investment opportunities for us. Our management agreement with ACM was developed to capitalize on
synergies with ACM's origination infrastructure, existing business relationships and management expertise. ACM has granted us a right of first refusal to pursue all structured finance investment
opportunities in the multi-family or commercial real estate markets that are identified by ACM or its affiliates. ACM continues to originate and service multi-family and commercial mortgage loans
under Fannie Mae, Federal Housing Administration and conduit commercial lending programs. We believe that the customer relationships established from these lines of business may generate additional
real estate investment opportunities for our business. 
 Current Market Conditions  
        The economic and financial deterioration that began in 2007 has shown some signs of stabilization over the past two years, although
there is still uncertainty as to the likelihood of ongoing disruptions in the credit and capital markets, devaluations of assets and a lack of liquidity throughout the worldwide financial system.
Global deleveraging by most financial institutions over the past several years has severely limited the availability of capital for most businesses, including those involved in the commercial real
estate sector. As a result, we, along with most institutions in our industry, have 
1



 
Table of Contents
significantly
reduced new investment activity. However, 2011 was marked with increased capital market stabilization and increased availability of liquidity. In fact, in July 2011, we closed on a
$50.0 million credit facility which we utilized to finance new investments. If market conditions continue to stabilize, we will rely on these credit and equity markets to generate capital for
financing the growth of our business. Additionally, in this current environment, we remain focused on managing our portfolio to preserve capital, generating and recycling liquidity from existing
assets and actively managing our financing facilities. 
        Global
stock and credit markets have experienced prolonged price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions over the past several years, which have caused market prices of many
stocks to fluctuate substantially. Commercial real estate has been particularly adversely affected by the prolonged economic downturn. Although we have seen some improvements, the overall market
recovery remains uncertain. Should the market regress, the commercial real estate sector may experience additional losses, challenges in complying with the terms of financing agreements, difficulties
in raising capital, and challenges in obtaining investment financing on attractive terms. 
        These
market conditions have also resulted in the scarcity of certain types of financing, and, in certain cases, making terms for certain financings less attractive. If these conditions
persist, lending institutions may be forced to exit markets such as repurchase lending, become insolvent, further tighten their lending standards or increase the amount of equity capital required to
obtain financing. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay our loans as they may experience difficulties in selling assets, increased costs of financing or
obtaining financing at all. It may also make it more difficult or unlikely for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common or preferred stock. 
        This
environment has had a significant impact on our business, our borrowers and real estate values throughout all asset classes and geographic locations. If real estate values decline,
it may limit our new mortgage loan originations since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers
may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans. Declining real estate values may also significantly increase the likelihood that we will continue to incur losses on our loans in the
event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our investment in the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could
adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly impact our revenues, results of
operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have made, and continue to make modifications and extensions to loans when it is
economically feasible to do so. In some cases, a modification is a more viable alternative to foreclosure proceedings when a borrower cannot comply with loan terms. In doing so, lower borrower
interest rates, combined with non-performing loans, will lower our net interest margins when comparing interest income to our costs of financing. 
        In
summary, commercial real estate financing companies were severely impacted by the economic downturn and until relatively recently have had limited access to the capital markets or the
debt markets to meet their existing obligations or to refinance maturing debt. We have responded to these troubled times by decreasing investment activity for capital preservation, aggressively
managing our assets through restructuring, and retiring our debt facilities and previously issued debt at discounts when economically feasible. In order to accomplish these goals, we have worked
closely with our borrowers in restructuring our loans, receiving payoffs and paydowns and monetizing our investments as appropriate. Additionally, based on available liquidity and market
opportunities, we have been stabilizing our loan and investment portfolios with new originations and investments and we have from time to time repurchased our debt at discounts as well as shares of
our common stock. We will continue to remain focused on executing these strategies when appropriate and where available if this significant economic downturn persists. 
2



 
Table of Contents
 Our Corporate History  
        On July 1, 2003, ACM contributed a portfolio of structured finance investments to our operating partnership. Concurrently with
this contribution, we and our operating partnership entered into a management agreement with ACM pursuant to which ACM manages our investments for a base management fee and incentive compensation, and
the nine person asset management group of ACM became our employees. 
        In
exchange for ACM's contribution of structured finance investments, our operating partnership issued approximately 3.1 million units of limited partnership interest, or
operating partnership units, and approximately 0.6 million warrants to purchase additional operating partnership units at an initial exercise price of $15.00 per operating partnership unit to
ACM. Concurrently, we, our operating partnership and ACM entered into a pairing agreement. Pursuant to the pairing agreement, each operating partnership unit issued to ACM and issuable to ACM upon
exercise of its warrants for additional operating partnership units in connection with the contribution of initial assets was paired with one share of the Company's special voting preferred stock. In
October 2004, ACM exercised these warrants and held approximately 3.8 million operating partnership units, constituting an approximately 16% limited partnership interest in our operating
partnership. ACM had the ability to redeem each of these operating partnership units for cash or, at our election, one share of our common stock. We granted ACM certain demand and other registration
rights with respect to the shares of common stock that could be issued upon redemption of these operating partnership units. Each of these operating partnership units were also paired with one share
of our special voting preferred stock entitling ACM to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Upon redemption of these operating partnership units, an equivalent number of
shares of our special voting preferred stock would be redeemed and cancelled. 
        Concurrently
with ACM's contribution of investments to our operating partnership, we sold approximately 1.6 million of our units, each consisting of five shares of our common
stock and one warrant to purchase an additional share of common stock at an initial exercise price of $15.00 per share, for $75.00 per unit in a private placement and agreed to register the shares of
common stock underlying these units and warrants for resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"). In July 2004, we registered approximately 9.6 million shares of common
stock underlying these units and warrants. At December 31, 2005, approximately 1.6 million warrants were exercised, of which 0.5 million were exercised "cashless", for a total of
1.3 million common shares issued pursuant to their exercise. 
        In
April 2004, we closed our initial public offering in which we issued and sold 6.3 million shares of common stock and a selling stockholder sold 22,500 shares of common stock,
each at $20.00 per share. Concurrently with the initial public offering, we sold 0.5 million shares of common stock at the initial public offering price directly to an entity wholly-owned by
one of our directors. The underwriters of our initial public offering exercised their overallotment option and, in May 2004, we issued and sold an additional 0.5 million shares of our common
stock pursuant to such exercise. 
        Since
January 2005, we completed three non-recourse CDO transactions, whereby $1.44 billion of real estate-related and other assets were contributed to three
newly-formed consolidated subsidiaries, which issued $1.21 billion of investment grade-rated floating-rate notes in three separate private placements. These proceeds were used to
repay outstanding debt and resulted in a decreased cost of funds relating to the CDO assets. 
        Since
March 2005, we issued a total of $290.0 million of junior subordinated notes in private placements. The junior subordinated notes are unsecured, have a maturity of 25 to
28 years, and pay interest quarterly at a fixed rate or floating rate of interest based on three-month LIBOR. In February
2010, we retired $114.1 million of our junior subordinated notes in exchange for the re-issuance of certain of our own CDO bonds, as well as other assets. 
3



 
Table of Contents
        In
June 2007, we completed a public offering in which we sold 2,700,000 shares of our common stock registered for $27.65 per share, and received net proceeds of approximately
$73.6 million after deducting the underwriting discount and the other estimated offering expenses. We used the proceeds to pay down debt and finance our loan and investment portfolio. 
        In
June 2008, our external manager exercised its right to redeem its approximate 3.8 million operating partnership units in our operating partnership for shares of our common
stock on a one-for-one basis. In addition, the special voting preferred shares paired with each operating partnership unit, pursuant to the pairing agreement, were redeemed
simultaneously and cancelled. ACM currently holds approximately 22% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. 
        In
June 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under the 1933 Act with respect to an aggregate
of $500.0 million of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants that may be sold by us from time to time pursuant to Rule 415 of the 1933 Act. On
June 23, 2010, the SEC declared this shelf registration statement effective. 
 Our Investment Strategy  
        Our principal business objectives are to invest in bridge and mezzanine loans, including junior participating interests in first
mortgages, preferred and direct equity, mortgage-backed securities and other real estate-related assets predominantly in the multifamily and commercial real estate markets and actively manage our
investment portfolio in order to generate cash available for distribution, facilitate capital appreciation and maximize total return to our stockholders. We believe the financing of multi-family and
commercial real estate offers opportunities that demand customized financing solutions. We believe we can achieve these objectives through the following business and growth strategies: 
        Provide Customized Financing.    We provide financing customized to the needs of our borrowers. We target borrowers who have
demonstrated a history of
enhancing the value of the properties they operate, but whose options may be limited by conventional bank financing and who may benefit from the sophisticated structured finance products we offer. 
         Execute Transactions Rapidly.    We act quickly and decisively on proposals, provide commitments and close transactions within a
few weeks and sometimes
days, if required. We believe that rapid execution attracts opportunities from both borrowers and other lenders that would not otherwise be available. We believe our ability to structure flexible
terms and close loans in a timely manner gives us a competitive advantage. 
         Manage Credit Quality.    A critical component of our strategy in the real estate finance sector is our ability to manage the real
estate risk that is
underwritten by our manager and us. We actively manage the credit quality of our portfolio by using the expertise of our asset management group, which has a proven track record of structuring and
repositioning structured finance investments to improve credit quality and yield. 
        Use Arbor Commercial Mortgage's Relationships with Existing Borrowers.    We capitalize on ACM's reputation in the commercial real
estate finance
industry. ACM has relationships with a large borrower base nationwide. Since ACM's originators offer senior mortgage loans as well as our structured finance products, we are able to benefit from its
existing customer base and use its senior lending business as a potential refinance vehicle for our structured finance assets. 
         Offer Broader Products and Expand Customer Base.    We have the ability to offer a larger number of financing alternatives than ACM
has been able to
offer to its customers in the past. Our potential 
4



 
Table of Contents
borrowers
are able to choose from products offering longer maturities and larger principal amounts than ACM could previously offer. 
         Leverage the Experience of Executive Officers, Arbor Commercial Mortgage and Our Employees.    Our executive officers and employees,
 and those of ACM,
have extensive experience originating and managing structured commercial real estate investments. Our senior management team has, on average, over 20 years of experience in the financial
services industry. 
 Our Targeted Investments  
        We pursue lending and investment opportunities with property owners and developers who need interim financing until permanent financing
can be obtained. We primarily target transactions where we believe we have competitive advantages, particularly our lower cost structure and in-house underwriting capabilities. Our
structured finance investments generally have maturities of two to five years depending on type, have extension options when appropriate, and generally require a balloon payment of principal at
maturity. Borrowers in the market for these types of loans include, but are not limited to, owners or developers seeking either to acquire or refurbish real estate or to pay down debt and reposition a
property for permanent financing. 
        Our
investment program emphasizes the following general categories of real estate-related activities: 
         Bridge Financing.    We offer bridge financing products to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an
acquisition of property. The borrower has usually identified an undervalued asset that has been under managed and/or is located in a recovering market. From the borrower's perspective, shorter term
bridge financing is advantageous because it allows for time to improve the property value through repositioning the property without encumbering it with restrictive long-term debt that may
not reflect optimal leverage for non-stabilized property. 
        The
bridge loans we make typically range in size from $1 million to $75 million and are predominantly secured by first mortgage liens on the property. The term of these
loans typically is up to five years. Historically, variable interest rates have ranged from 1.10% to 10.20% over 30-day LIBOR, and fixed rates ranged from 1.70% to 15.00%. At
December 31, 2011, variable interest rates ranged from 1.80% to 10.20% over 30-day LIBOR, with fixed rates ranging from 6.00% to 15.00%. However, our current target range is
generally 5.50% to 8.00% over 30-day LIBOR. Additional yield enhancements may include origination fees, deferred interest, yield look-backs, and participating interests, which
are equity interests in the borrower that share in a percentage of the underlying cash flows of the property. Borrowers generally use the proceeds of a conventional mortgage to repay a bridge loan. 
         Junior Participation Financing.    We offer junior participation financing in the form of a junior participating interest in the
senior debt. Junior
participation financings have the same obligations, collateral and borrower as the senior debt. The junior participation interest is subordinated to the senior debt by virtue of a contractual
agreement between the senior debt lender and the junior participating interest lender. 
        Our
junior participation loans typically range in size from $1 million to $60 million and have terms of up to ten years. Historically, variable interest rates have ranged
from 1.00% to 9.75% over 30-day LIBOR, and fixed rates ranged from 2.00% to 12.80%. At December 31, 2011, variable interest rates ranged from 1.00% to 5.71% over 30-day
LIBOR, with fixed rates ranging from 2.00% to 10.07%. As in the case with our bridge loans, the yield on these investments may be enhanced by prepaid and deferred interest payments, yield
look-backs and participating interests. 
5



 
Table of Contents
         Mezzanine Financing.    We offer mezzanine financing in the form of loans that are subordinate to a conventional first mortgage
loan and senior to the
borrower's equity in a transaction. Mezzanine financing may take the form of loans secured by pledges of ownership interests in entities that directly or indirectly control the real property or
subordinated loans secured by second mortgage liens on the property. We may also require additional security such as personal guarantees, letters of credit and/or additional collateral unrelated to
the property. 
        Our
mezzanine loans typically range in size from $1 million to $50 million and have terms of up to ten years. Historically, variable interest rates have ranged from 2.00%
to 12.00% over 30-day LIBOR, and fixed rates ranged from 2.00% to 16.00%. At December 31, 2011, variable interest rates ranged from 2.50% to 5.50% over 30-day LIBOR,
with fixed rates ranging from 3.00% to 12.00%. As in the case with our bridge loans, the yield on these investments may be enhanced by prepaid and deferred interest payments, yield
look-backs and participating interests. 
        We
hold a majority of our mezzanine loans through subsidiaries of our operating partnership that are pass-through entities for tax purposes or taxable subsidiary
corporations. 
         Preferred Equity Investments.    We provide financing by making preferred equity investments in entities that directly or
indirectly own real property.
In cases where the terms of a first mortgage prohibit additional liens on the ownership entity, investments structured as preferred equity in the entity owning the property serve as viable financing
substitutes. With preferred equity investments, we typically become a member in the ownership entity. 
        Our
preferred equity investments typically range in size from $1 million to $75 million, have terms up to ten years and variable interest rates that have ranged from 2.00%
to 6.00% over 30-day LIBOR, and fixed rates ranged from 2.36% to 15.00%. At December 31, 2011, variable interest rates ranged from 2.00% to 6.00% over 30-day LIBOR, with
fixed rates ranging from 2.36% to 12.00%. 
         Real Property Acquisitions.    We have, and may in the future, acquire real estate by foreclosure or through partial or full
settlement of mortgage debt
related to our loans. Our management team may identify such assets and initiate an asset-specific plan to maximize the value of the collateral, which can include appointing a third party property
manager, completing the construction or renovation of the property, continuing the sale of condominium units, leasing or increasing the occupancy of the property, or selling the entire asset or a
partial interest to a third party. As such, these transactions may require the use of additional capital prior to the completion of the specific plan. Additionally, we may identify real estate
investment opportunities such as domestic real estate for repositioning and/or renovation and then disposition at an anticipated significant return. In these situations, we may act solely on our own
behalf or in partnership with other investors. Typically, these transactions are analyzed with the expectation that we will have the ability to sell the property within a one to three year time
period, achieving a significant return on invested capital. In connection with these transactions, speed of execution is often the most critical component to success. We may seek to finance a portion
of the acquisition price through short-term financing, if available. Repayment of the short-term financing will either come from the sale of the property or conventional
permanent debt. 
         Note Acquisitions.    We may acquire real estate notes from lenders in situations where the borrower wishes to restructure and
reposition its
short-term debt and the lender wishes, for a variety of reasons (such as risk mitigation, portfolio diversification or other strategic reasons), to divest certain assets from its
portfolio. These notes may be acquired at a discount. In such cases, we intend to use our management resources to resolve any disputes concerning the note or the property securing it and to identify
and resolve any existing operational or any other problems at the property. We will then either restructure the debt obligation for immediate resale or sale at a later date, or reposition it for
permanent financing. In some instances, we may take title to the property underlying the real estate note. 
6



 
Table of Contents
         Equity Securities.    We have, and may in the future, invest in equity securities such as the common stock of a commercial real
estate specialty finance
company. Investments in these securities have the risk of stock market fluctuations which may result in the loss of our principal investment. 
         Commercial Real Estate Collateralized Debt Obligation Bonds.    We have, and may in the future, invest in securities such as
commercial real estate
collateralized debt obligation ("CDO") bonds. These certificates are usually purchased at a discount to their face value which is accreted into interest income, if deemed to be collectable, on an
effective yield adjusted for actual prepayment activity over the expected remaining life of the related security as a yield adjustment. These securities have underlying credit ratings assigned by the
three leading nationally recognized rating agencies (Moody's Investor Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings) and are generally not insured or otherwise guaranteed. 
         Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities.    We have, and may in the future, invest in commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS").
These securities are
usually purchased at a discount to their face value which is accreted into interest income, if deemed to be collectable, on an effective yield adjusted for actual prepayment activity over the expected
remaining life of the related security as a yield adjustment. These securities have underlying credit ratings assigned by the three leading nationally recognized rating agencies (Moody's Investor
Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings) and are generally not insured or otherwise guaranteed. 
         Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities.    We have, and may in the future, invest in residential mortgage-backed securities
("RMBS"). These securities
may be purchased at a premium to their face value which is amortized into interest expense on an effective yield adjusted for actual prepayment activity over the expected remaining life of the related
security as a yield adjustment. These securities may have underlying credit ratings assigned by the three leading nationally recognized rating agencies (Moody's Investor Service, Standard &
Poor's and Fitch Ratings) and are generally not insured or otherwise guaranteed. 
 Our Structured Finance Investments  
        We own a diversified portfolio of structured finance investments consisting primarily of real estate-related bridge, junior
participation interests in first mortgages, and mezzanine loans as well as preferred equity investments and mortgage-related securities. 
        At
December 31, 2011, we had 119 loans and investments in our portfolio, totaling $1.5 billion. These loans and investments were for 72 multi-family properties, 25 office
properties, nine land properties, seven hotel properties, three retail properties, two condominium properties and one commercial property. We have an allowance for loan losses of $185.4 million
at December 31, 2011 related to 24 loans in our portfolio with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of $285.0 million. The loan loss reserves were determined during
our regular quarterly risk rating review process which is based on several factors including current market conditions, values and the operating status of these properties. We continue to actively
manage all loans and investments in the portfolio through our strict underwriting and active asset management with the goal of maintaining the credit quality of our portfolio and limiting potential
losses. We also have at December 31, 2011, one commercial real estate CDO bond investment with a carrying value of $2.0 million, two CMBS investments with a combined carrying value of
$2.8 million and seven RMBS investments with a combined carrying value of $29.2 million. 
        The
overall yield on our loan and investments portfolio in 2011 was 4.60% on average assets of $1.6 billion. This yield was computed by dividing the interest income earned during
the year by the average assets during the year. Our cost of funds in 2011 was 3.97% on average borrowings of $1.3 billion. This cost of funds was computed by dividing the interest expense
incurred during the year by the average borrowings during the year. 
7



 
Table of Contents
        Our
average net investment (average assets less average borrowings) in 2011 was $288.2 million, resulting in average leverage (average borrowings divided by average assets) of
81.9%. Including average junior subordinated notes of $175.9 million as equity, our average leverage was 70.8%. The net interest income earned in 2011 yielded a 7.5% return on our average net
investment during the year. This yield was computed by dividing net interest (interest income less interest expense) earned in 2011 by average equity (computed as average assets minus average
borrowings) invested during the year. 
        Our
business plan contemplates that our leverage ratio, including our junior subordinated notes as equity, will be around 70% to 80% of our assets in the aggregate. However, including
our junior subordinated notes as equity, our leverage is generally not to exceed 80% of the value of our portfolio assets, before loan loss reserves, when considering additional financing sources
unless approval to exceed the 80% limit is obtained from our Board of Directors. See "Operating Policies and Strategies" below for further details. 
        The
following table sets forth information regarding our loan and investment portfolio as of December 31, 2011: 
























Type



 
Asset Class 
 
Number 
 
Unpaid Principal
(Dollars in Thousands) 
 
Weighted Average
Pay Rate(1) 
 
Weighted Average
Remaining Maturity
(months) 
 


 



 Bridge Loans
 
Multi Family
 
 
37
 
$
493,766
 
 
5.42
%
 
32.1
 


 



 
Office
 
 
13
 
 
195,871
 
 
5.89
%
 
44.9
 


 



 
Land
 
 
8
 
 
126,777
 
 
0.10
%
 
2.5
 


 



 
Hotel
 
 
3
 
 
67,168
 
 
5.64
%
 
9.9
 


 



 
Commercial
 
 
1
 
 
23,752
 
 
6.45
%
 
51.0
 


 



 
Retail
 
 
3
 
 
21,050
 
 
6.67
%
 
36.6
 


 



 
Condo
 
 
1
 
 
4,650
 
 
8.50
%
 
5.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 


 



 
 
 
 
66
 
 
933,034
 
 
4.88
%
 
29.6
 


 Mezzanine Loans
 
 Multi Family
 
 

18
 
 

59,553
 
 

3.67
%
 

67.8
 


 
 
Office
 
 
5
 
 
78,778
 
 
5.68
%
 
19.9
 


 
 
Land
 
 
1
 
 
9,333
 
 
—
 
 
2.0
 


 
 
Hotel
 
 
2
 
 
30,000
 
 
3.30
%
 
5.0
 


 
 
Condo
 
 
1
 
 
10,000
 
 
3.30
%
 
17.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
27
 
 
187,664
 
 
4.25
%
 
31.7
 


 



 Junior Participations
 
 Multi Family
 
 

1
 
 

32,000
 
 

2.00
%
 

27.0
 


 



 
Office
 
 
6
 
 
210,274
 
 
4.69
%
 
42.8
 


 



 
Hotel
 
 
2
 
 
38,672
 
 
1.88
%
 
8.7
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 


 



 
 
 
 
9
 
 
280,946
 
 
3.99
%
 
36.3
 


 Preferred Equity
 
 Multi Family
 
 

16
 
 

88,250
 
 

3.46
%
 

95.4
 


 
 
Office
 
 
1
 
 
12,500
 
 
9.25
%
 
44.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
100,750
 
 
4.18
%
 
89.0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Total
 
 
 
 

119
 
$

1,502,394
 
 

4.59
%
 

35.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)"Weighted
Average Pay Rate" is a weighted average, based on the unpaid principal balances of each loan in the Company's portfolio, of the interest rate that
is required to be paid monthly as stated in the individual loan agreements. Certain loans and investments that require an additional rate of interest "Accrual Rate" to be paid at the maturity are not
included in the weighted average pay rate as shown in the table. At December 31, 2011, the Company had no such loans in its portfolio that were currently accruing such interest. 

8




 







 
Table of Contents 
        The following table sets forth geographic and asset class information regarding our loan and investment portfolio as of December 31, 2011: 
























Geographic Location



 
Unpaid Principal 
 
Percentage(1) 
 
Asset Class



 
Unpaid Principal 
 
Percentage(1) 
 


 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 
 
 


 New York
 
$
552,656
 
 
36.8
%
 Multi Family

 
$
673,571
 
 
44.8
%


 California
 
 
207,300
 
 
13.8
%
 Office

 
 
497,423
 
 
33.1
%


 Florida
 
 
105,560
 
 
7.0
%
 Land

 
 
136,110
 
 
9.1
%


 Texas
 
 
91,756
 
 
6.1
%
 Hotel

 
 
135,839
 
 
9.0
%


 Maryland
 
 
55,250
 
 
3.7
%
 Commercial

 
 
23,752
 
 
1.6
%


 Alabama
 
 
36,784
 
 
2.4
%
 Retail

 
 
21,050
 
 
1.4
%


 Illinois
 
 
35,853
 
 
2.4
%
 Condo

 
 
14,649
 
 
1.0
%


 Tennessee
 
 
34,861
 
 
2.3
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 New Jersey
 
 
34,250
 
 
2.3
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diversified
 
 
204,368
 
 
13.6
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other(2)
 
 
143,756
 
 
9.6
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
1,502,394
 
 
100.0
%
 Total

 
$
1,502,394
 
 
100.0
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Based
on a percentage of the total unpaid principal balance of the underlying loans.
(2)No
other individual state makes up more than 2% of the total. 

 Our Investments in Securities  
         Equity Securities.    During 2007, we purchased 2,939,465 shares of common stock of Realty Finance Corporation, formerly CBRE Realty
Finance, Inc., a commercial real estate specialty finance company for $16.7 million, which had a fair value of $0.2 million and are classified as available-for-sale at
December 31, 2011. 
        Commercial Real Estate Collateralized Debt Obligation Bonds.    One commercial real estate CDO bond with a fair value of $2.0 million is
classified as
an available-for-sale security at December 31, 2011. The CDO bond security bears interest at a spread of 30 basis points
over LIBOR, has a stated maturity of 40.3 years, but has an estimated remaining life of 4.3 years due to the maturities of the underlying assets. 
         Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities.    A CMBS rake bond with a fair value of $2.1 million, collateralized by a portfolio of hotel
properties, is
classified as an available-for-sale security at December 31, 2011. The CMBS investment bears interest at a spread of 89 basis points over LIBOR, has a stated maturity of
8.5 years, but has an estimated remaining life of six months due to the maturity of the underlying asset. During 2011 we purchased another CMBS investment for $0.7 million, collateralized by a
portfolio of hotel properties, which is classified as held-to-maturity at December 31, 2011. The CMBS investment bears interest at a fixed rate of 2.95%, has a stated
maturity of 15.9 years, but has an estimated remaining life of 3.8 years due to the maturity of the underlying asset, and a fair value of $0.7 million at December 31, 2011. 
        Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities.    During 2011, we purchased four RMBS investments, at par, for $33.0 million and three RMBS
investments, at a
premium, for $2.7 million, which are collateralized by portfolios of residential properties. The RMBS investments are classified as securities held-to-maturity at
December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we received total principal paydowns of $6.5 million, reducing the total carrying value to $29.2 million at
December 31, 2011. The RMBS investments bear interest at a weighted average rate of 6.28%, have a weighted average stated maturity of 36.8 years, but have average estimated lives of
2.1 years based on the 
9



 
Table of Contents
estimated
maturity of the RMBS investments and a total fair value of $29.3 million at December 31, 2011. The RMBS investments were financed with a repurchase agreement with a financial
institution for a total of $30.0 million which finances 80% to 90% of the value of each individual RMBS investment. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we paid down the debt by $3.9
million due to the principal paydowns received on the RMBS investments, reducing the total debt amount to $26.1 million at December 31, 2011. 
        We
intend to hold the CDO bond, CMBS and RMBS investments to maturity. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the total average yield on the above securities based on their face
values was 2.47%, including the amortization of premium. 
 Regulatory Aspects of Our Investment Strategy  
         Real Estate Exemption from Investment Company Act.    We believe that we conduct, and we intend to conduct, our business at all times in a
manner that
avoids registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. Entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or
otherwise acquiring "mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate," are currently exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act if they maintain at least 55% of their assets
directly in qualifying real estate assets and meet certain other requirements. Assets that qualify for purposes of this 55% test include, among other things, direct investments in real estate and
mortgage loans. Our bridge loans, which are secured by first mortgage liens on the underlying properties, and our loans that are secured by second mortgage liens on the underlying properties generally
qualify for purposes of this 55% test. These two types of loans constituted more than 55% of our assets as of December 31, 2011. The SEC staff is currently reviewing its interpretive policy
under the above exemption. Refer to Item 1A "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Failure to maintain an exemption from regulation as an investment company under
the Investment Company Act would adversely affect our results of operations" for more information. 
        Our
investment guidelines provide that no more than 15% of our assets may consist of any type of mortgage-related securities and that the percentage of our investments in
mortgage-related securities as compared to our structured finance investments be monitored on a regular basis. 
 Management Agreement  
        On July 1, 2003, we and our operating partnership entered into a management agreement with ACM. On January 19, 2005, we,
our operating partnership, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., one of our subsidiaries and ACM entered into an amended and restated management agreement with substantially the same terms as the original
management agreement in order to add Arbor Realty SR, Inc. as a beneficiary of ACM's services. The management agreement was further amended in August 2009. Pursuant to the terms of the
management agreement, our manager has agreed to service and manage our investments and to provide us with multi-family and commercial real estate-related structured finance investment opportunities,
finance and other services necessary to operate our business. Our manager is required to provide a dedicated management team to provide these services to us, the members of which will devote such of
their time to our management as our independent directors reasonably deem necessary and appropriate, commensurate with our level of activity from time to time. We rely to a significant extent on the
facilities and resources of our manager to conduct our operations. For performing services under the management agreement, ACM receives a
base management fee, incentive compensation and "success-based" compensation as described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under Item 7
of this report. 
10



 
Table of Contents
 Operations  
        Our Manager's Investment Services.    Under the management agreement, ACM is responsible for sourcing originations, providing underwriting
services and
processing approvals for all loans and other investments in our portfolio. ACM also provides certain administrative loan servicing functions with respect to our loans and investments. We are able to
capitalize on ACM's well established operations and services in each area described below. 
         Origination.    Our manager sources the origination of most of our investments. ACM has a network of over nine sales offices
located in Bethesda,
Maryland; Birmingham, Alabama; Bloomfield Hills, Michigan; Boston, Massachusetts; Dallas, Texas; Los Angeles, California; New York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Uniondale, New York. These
offices are staffed by approximately 22 loan originators who solicit property owners, developers and mortgage loan brokers. In some instances, the originators accept loan applications meeting our
underwriting criteria from a select group of mortgage loan brokers. While a large portion of ACM's marketing effort occurs at the branch level, ACM also markets its products in national industry
publications and targeted direct mailings. ACM markets structured finance products and our product offerings using the same methods. Once potential borrowers have been identified, ACM determines which
financing products best meet the borrower's needs. Loan originators in every branch office are able to offer borrowers the full array of ACM's and our structured finance products. After identifying a
suitable product, ACM works with the borrower to prepare a loan application. Upon completion by the borrower, the application is forwarded to ACM's underwriters for due diligence. 
         Underwriting.    ACM's loan originators work in conjunction with its underwriters who perform due
diligence on all proposed transactions prior to loan approval and commitment. The underwriters analyze each loan application in accordance with the guidelines set forth below in order to determine the
loan's conformity with respect to such guidelines. In general, ACM's underwriting guidelines require it to evaluate the following: the historic and current property revenues and expenses; the
potential for near-term revenue growth and opportunity for expense reduction and increased operating efficiencies; the property's location, its attributes and competitive position within
its market; the proposed ownership structure, financial strength and real estate experience of the borrower and property management; third party appraisal, environmental and engineering studies;
market assessment, including property inspection, review of tenant lease files, surveys of property comparables and an analysis of area economic and demographic trends; review of an acceptable
mortgagee's title policy and an "as built" survey; construction quality of the property to determine future maintenance and capital expenditure requirements; and the requirements for any reserves,
including those for immediate repairs or rehabilitation, replacement reserves, tenant improvement and leasing commission costs, real estate taxes and property casualty and liability insurance. Key
factors considered in credit decisions include, but are not limited to, debt service coverage, loan to value ratios and property, financial and operating performance. Consideration is also given to
other factors, such as additional forms of security and identifying likely strategies to affect repayment. ACM continuously refines its underwriting criteria based upon actual loan portfolio
experience and as market conditions and investor requirements evolve. 
         Investment Approval Process.    ACM applies its established investment approval process to all loans and other investments proposed
for our portfolio
before submitting each proposal to us for final approval. A written report is generated for every loan or other investment that is submitted to ACM's credit committee for approval. The report includes
a description of the prospective borrower and any guarantors, the collateral and the proposed use of investment proceeds, as well as borrower and property consolidated financial statements and
analysis. In addition, the report includes an analysis of borrower liquidity, net worth, cash investment, income, credit history and operating experience. If the transaction is approved by a majority
of ACM's credit committee, it is presented for approval to our credit committee, which consists of our chief executive officer, chief credit officer, and executive vice 
11



 
Table of Contents
president
of structured finance. All transactions require the approval of a majority of the members of our credit committee. Following the approval of any such transaction, ACM's underwriting and
servicing departments, together with our asset management group, assure that all loan approval terms have been satisfied and conform with lending requirements established for that particular
transaction. If our credit committee rejects the loan and our independent directors allow ACM or one of its affiliates to pursue it, ACM will have the opportunity to execute the transaction. 
         Servicing.    ACM services our loans and investments through its internal servicing operations. Our
manager currently services an expanding portfolio, consisting of 1,571 loans with outstanding balances of $8.7 billion through its loan administration department in Buffalo, New York. ACM's loan
servicing operations are designed to provide prompt customer service and accurate and timely information for account follow up, financial reporting and management review. Following the funding of an
approved loan, all pertinent loan data is entered into ACM's data processing system, which provides monthly billing statements, tracks payment performance and processes contractual interest rate
adjustments on variable rate loans. Our manager utilizes the operations of its loan administration department to service our portfolio with the same efficiency, accuracy and promptness. ACM also works
closely with our asset management group to ensure the appropriate level of customer service and monitoring of these loans. 
        Our Asset Management Operations.    Our asset management group is comprised of 25 employees. Effective asset and portfolio management is
essential to
maximize the performance and value of a real estate investment. The asset management group customizes an asset management plan with the loan originators and underwriters to track each investment from
origination through disposition. This group monitors each investment's operating history, local economic trends and rental and occupancy rates and evaluates the underlying property's competitiveness
within its market. This group assesses ongoing and potential operational and financial performance of each investment in order to evaluate and ultimately improve its operations and financial
viability. The asset management group performs frequent onsite inspections, conducts meetings with borrowers and evaluates and participates in the budgeting process, financial and operational review
and renovation plans of each of the underlying properties. As an asset and portfolio manager, the asset management group focuses on increasing the productivity of onsite property managers and leasing
brokers. This group communicates the status of each transaction against its established asset management plan to senior management, in order to enhance and preserve capital, as well as to avoid
litigation and potential exposure. 
        Timely
and accurate identification of an investment's operational and financial issues and each borrower's objectives is essential to implementing an executable loan workout and
restructuring process, if required. Since existing property management may not have the requisite expertise to manage the workout process effectively, the asset management group determines the current
operating and financial status of an asset or portfolio and performs a liquidity analysis of the property and ownership entity and then, if appropriate, identifies and evaluates alternatives in order
to maximize the value of an investment. 
        Our
asset management group continues to provide its services to ACM on a limited basis pursuant to an asset management services agreement between ACM and us. The asset management
services agreement will be effective throughout the term of our management agreement and during the origination period described in the management agreement. In the event the services provided by our
asset management group, pursuant to this agreement, exceed more than 15% per quarter, the level anticipated by our Board of Directors, we will negotiate in good faith with our manager an adjustment to
our manager's base management fee under the management agreement, to reduce the scope of the services, the quantity of serviced assets or the time required to be devoted to the services by our asset
management group. 
12



 
Table of Contents
 Operating Policies and Strategies  
         Investment Guidelines.    Our Board of Directors has adopted general guidelines for our investments and borrowings to the effect that:
(1) no
investment will be made that would cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT; (2) no investment will be made that would cause us to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment
Company Act; (3) no more than 25% of our equity (including junior subordinated notes as equity), determined as of the date of such investment, will be invested in any single asset;
(4) no single mezzanine loan or preferred equity investment will exceed $75 million; (5) our leverage (including junior subordinated notes as equity) will generally not exceed 80% of the
value of our assets, in the aggregate; (6) we will not co-invest with our manager or any of its affiliates unless such co-investment is otherwise in accordance with
these guidelines and its terms are at least as favorable to us as to our manager or the affiliate making such co-investment; (7) no more than 15% of our gross assets may consist of
mortgage-related securities. Any exceptions to the above general guidelines require the approval of our Board of Directors. 
         Financing Policies.    We finance the acquisition of our structured finance investments primarily by borrowing against or "leveraging" our
existing
portfolio and using the proceeds to acquire additional mortgage assets. We expect to incur debt such that we will maintain an equity to assets ratio no less than 20% (including junior subordinated
notes as equity), although the actual ratio may be lower from time to time depending on market conditions and other factors deemed relevant by our manager. Our charter and bylaws do not limit the
amount of indebtedness we can incur, and the Board of Directors has discretion to deviate from or change our indebtedness policy at any time, provided that we are in compliance with our bank
covenants. However, we intend to maintain an adequate capital base to protect against various business environments in which our financing and hedging costs might exceed the interest income from our
investments. 
        Our
investments are financed primarily by collateralized debt obligations, our junior subordinate notes, and through loan repurchase agreements and other financing facilities with
institutional lenders. Although we expect that these will be the principal means of leveraging our investments, we may issue common stock, preferred stock or secured or unsecured notes of any maturity
if it appears advantageous to do so. 
         Credit Risk Management Policy.    We are exposed to various levels of credit and special hazard risk depending on the nature of our
underlying assets
and the nature and level of credit enhancements supporting our assets. We originate or purchase mortgage loans that meet our minimum debt service coverage standards. ACM, as our manager, our chief
credit officer, and our asset management group, reviews and monitors credit risk and other risks of loss associated with each investment. In addition, ACM seeks to diversify our portfolio of assets to
avoid undue geographic, issuer, industry and certain other types of concentrations. Our Board of Directors monitors the overall portfolio risk and reviews levels of provision for loss. 
         Interest Rate Risk Management Policy.    To the extent that it is consistent with our election to qualify as a REIT, we generally follow
an interest
rate risk management policy intended to mitigate the negative effects of major interest rate changes. We minimize our interest rate risk from borrowings by attempting to structure the key terms of our
borrowings to generally correspond to the interest rate terms of our assets. 
        We
may enter into hedging transactions to protect our investment portfolio from interest rate fluctuations and other changes in market conditions. These transactions may include interest
rate swaps, the purchase or sale of interest rate collars, caps or floors, options, mortgage derivatives and other hedging instruments. These instruments may be used to hedge as much of the interest
rate risk as ACM determines is in the best interest of our stockholders, given the cost of such hedges and the need to maintain our status as a REIT. In general, income from hedging transactions does
not constitute 
13



 
Table of Contents
qualifying
income for purposes of the REIT gross income requirements. To the extent, however, that a hedging contract reduces interest rate risk on indebtedness incurred to acquire or carry real
estate assets, any income that is derived from the hedging contract, would not give rise to non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. ACM may elect to have
us bear a level of interest rate risk that could otherwise be hedged when it believes, based on all relevant facts, that bearing such risk is advisable. 
        To
date, we have entered into various interest rate swaps in connection with the issuance of floating rate secured notes, the issuance of variable rate junior subordinate notes and to
hedge the interest risk on forecasted outstanding LIBOR based debt. The notional amount of each interest rate swap agreement and the related terms have been designed to protect our investment
portfolio from interest
rate risk and to match the payment and receipts of interest on the underlying debt instruments, where applicable. 
         Disposition Policies.    ACM evaluates our asset portfolio on a regular basis to determine if it continues to satisfy our investment
criteria. Subject
to certain restrictions applicable to REITs, ACM may cause us to sell our investments opportunistically and use the proceeds of any such sale for debt reduction, additional acquisitions, or working
capital purposes. 
         Equity Capital Policies.    Subject to applicable law, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further stockholder approval, to
issue
additional authorized common stock and preferred stock or otherwise raise capital, including through the issuance of senior securities, in any manner and on the terms and for the consideration it
deems appropriate, including in exchange for property. We may in the future issue common stock in connection with acquisitions. We also may issue units of partnership interest in our operating
partnership in connection with acquisitions of property. We may, under certain circumstances, repurchase our common stock in private transactions with our stockholders, if those purchases are approved
by our Board of Directors. 
         Conflicts of Interest Policies.    We, our executive officers, and ACM face conflicts of interests because of our relationships with each
other. ACM
currently has approximately 22% of the voting interest in our common stock. Mr. Kaufman, our chairman and chief executive officer, is the chief executive officer of ACM and beneficially owns
approximately 92% of the outstanding membership interests of ACM. Mr. Martello, one of our directors, is the chief operating officer of Arbor Management, LLC (the managing member of ACM)
and a trustee of two trusts which own minority membership interests in ACM. Mr. Bishar, who was a director until January 27, 2012, is general counsel to ACM. Mr. Elenio, our chief
financial officer and treasurer, is the chief financial officer of ACM. Mr. Horn, our secretary and one of our directors, is the secretary of ACM. Each of Messrs. Kaufman, Martello,
Bishar, and Elenio, as well as Mr. Weber, our executive vice president of structured finance and Mr. Kilgore, our executive vice president of structured securitization are members of
ACM's executive committee and they, as well as Mr. Horn, own minority membership interests in ACM. 
        We
have implemented several policies, through board action and through the terms of our charter and our agreements with ACM, to help address these conflicts of interest, including the
following:


•Our charter requires that a majority of our Board of Directors be independent directors and that only our independent
directors make any determination on our behalf with respect to the relationships or transactions that present a conflict of interest for our directors or officers.  
•Our Board of Directors have adopted a policy that decisions concerning our management agreement with ACM, including
termination, renewal and enforcement thereof or our participation in any transactions with ACM or its affiliates outside of the management agreement, including our ability to purchase securities and
mortgages or other assets from ACM, 

14



 
Table of Contents


or
our ability to sell securities and assets to ACM, must be reviewed and approved by a majority of our independent directors. 


•Our management agreement provides that our determination to terminate the management agreement for cause or because the
management fees are unfair to us or because of a change in control of our manager, will be made by a majority vote of our independent directors. 
•Our independent directors will periodically review the general investment standards established by ACM under the
management agreement. 
•Our management agreement with ACM provides that ACM may not assign duties under the management agreement, except to
certain affiliates of ACM, without the approval of a majority of our independent directors. 
•Our management agreement provides that decisions to approve or reject investment opportunities rejected by our credit
committee that ACM or Mr. Kaufman wish to pursue will be made by a majority of our independent directors. 

        Our
Board of Directors has approved the operating policies and the strategies set forth above. Our Board of Directors has the power to modify or waive these policies and strategies, or
amend our agreements with ACM, without the consent of our stockholders to the extent that the Board of Directors (including a majority of our independent directors) determines that such modification
or waiver is in the best interest of our stockholders. Among other factors, developments in the market that either affect the policies and strategies mentioned herein or that change our assessment of
the market may cause our Board of Directors to revise its policies and strategies. However, if such modification or waiver involves the relationship of, or any transaction between, us and our manager
or any affiliate of our manager, the approval of a majority of our independent directors is also required. We may not, however, amend our charter to change the requirement that a majority of our board
consists of independent directors or the requirement that our independent directors approve related party transactions without the approval of two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by our
stockholders. 
 Compliance with Federal, State and Local Environmental Laws  
        Properties that we may acquire directly or indirectly through partnerships, and the properties underlying our structured finance
investments and mortgage-related securities, are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Under these laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or
previous owner of real estate (including, in certain circumstances, a secured lender that acquires ownership or control of a property) may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of
certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at, on, under or in its property. These laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the
owner or control party knew of or was responsible for the release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of these substances may be
substantial and could exceed the value of the property. An owner or control party of a site may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental
contamination emanating from a site. Certain environmental laws also impose liability in connection with the handling of or exposure to materials containing asbestos. These laws allow third parties to
seek recovery from owners of real properties for personal injuries associated with materials containing asbestos. Our operating costs and the values of these assets may be adversely affected by the
obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of complying with future legislation, and our income and ability to make
distributions to our stockholders could be affected adversely by the existence of an environmental liability with respect to properties we may acquire. We will endeavor to ensure that these properties
are 
15



 
Table of Contents
in
compliance in all material respects with all federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products. 
 Competition  
        Our net income depends, in large part, on our manager's ability to originate structured finance investments with spreads over our
borrowing costs. In originating these investments, our manager competes with other mortgage REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance
companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, other lenders, governmental bodies and other entities, some of which may have greater financial resources and lower costs of
capital available to them. In addition, there are numerous mortgage REITs with asset acquisition objectives similar to ours, and others may be organized in the future. The existence of additional
REITs may increase competition for the available supply of structured finance assets suitable for purchase by us. Competitive variables include market presence and visibility, size of loans offered
and underwriting standards. To the extent that a competitor is willing to risk larger amounts of capital in a particular transaction or to employ more liberal underwriting standards when evaluating
potential loans, our origination volume and profit margins for our investment portfolio could be impacted. Our competitors may also be willing to accept lower returns on their investments and may
succeed in buying the assets that we have targeted for acquisition. Although management believes that we are well positioned to continue to compete effectively in each facet of our business, there can
be no assurance that we will do so or that we will not encounter further increased competition in the future that could limit our ability to compete effectively. 
 Employees  
        We have 32 employees, including Messrs. Weber and Kilgore, Mr. Felletter, our senior vice president of asset management,
Mr. Guziewicz, our chief credit officer, and a 25 person asset management group. Mr. Kaufman, our chief executive officer and Mr. Elenio, our chief financial officer are full time
employees of ACM and are not directly compensated by us (other than pursuant to our equity incentive plans), however, a portion of their compensation is reimbursed by the management fee that we pay to
ACM. 
 Corporate Governance and Internet Address  
        We have adopted corporate governance guidelines and a code of business conduct and ethics, which delineate our standards for our
directors, officers and employees, and the employees of our manager who provide services to us. We emphasize the importance of professional business conduct and ethics through our corporate governance
initiatives. 
        Our
internet address is www.arborrealtytrust.com. We make available, free of charge through a link on our site, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports, if any, as filed with the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. Our
site also contains our code of business conduct and ethics, code of ethics for chief executive and senior financial officers, corporate governance guidelines, stockholder communications with the Board
of Directors, and the charters of the audit committee, nominating/corporate governance committee, and compensation committee of our Board of Directors. No information contained in or linked to our
website is incorporated by reference in this report. 
16




 










Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS     
        Our business is subject to various risks, including the risks listed below. If any of these risks actually occur, our business,
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the value of our common stock could decline. 
 
 
  Risks Related to Our Business     
 A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession, or declining real estate values could harm our operations.  
        Over the last several years, global stock and credit markets have experienced prolonged price volatility, dislocations and liquidity
disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially. We believe the risks associated with our business are more severe during periods of economic downturn if these
periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values will likely continue to limit our new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value
of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the real estate economy
weakens. Declining real estate values also significantly increase the likelihood that we will continue to incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be
insufficient to cover our cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our
portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to
make distributions to the stockholders. 
 Prolonged disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of
our common stock.  
        Commercial real estate has been particularly adversely affected by the prolonged economic downturn and liquidity crisis. These
circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets and have resulted in the scarcity of certain types of financing, and, in certain cases, making certain financing terms less
attractive. If these conditions persist, lending institutions may be forced to exit markets such as repurchase lending, become insolvent, further tighten their lending standards or increase the amount
of equity capital required to obtain financing, and in such event, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Our profitability will be adversely affected if
we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. A prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less
attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our borrowers to repay our loans as they may experience
difficulties in selling assets, increased costs of financing or obtaining financing at all. These events in the stock and credit markets may also make it more difficult or unlikely for us to raise
capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and
other adverse effects on us or the economy in general. 
 Increases in loan loss reserves and other impairments are likely if economic conditions deteriorate further.  
        A further decline in economic conditions could negatively impact the credit quality of our loans and investments portfolio. If we do
not see a continued stabilization of the financial markets and such market conditions decline further, we will likely experience increases in loan loss reserves, potential defaults and other asset
impairment charges. 
17



 
Table of Contents
 Loan loss reserves are particularly difficult to estimate in a turbulent economic environment.  
        We perform an evaluation of our loans on a quarterly basis to determine whether an impairment is necessary and adequate to absorb
probable losses. The valuation process for our loans and investments portfolio requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which are particularly difficult to determine during a period in
which the availability of commercial real estate credit is limited and commercial real estate transactions have decreased. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including
projected cash flows from the collateral securing our commercial real estate loans, loan structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at
the maturity of a loan, potential for a refinancing market coming back to commercial real estate in the future and expected market discount rates for varying property types. If our estimates and
judgments are not correct, our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted. 
 Loan repayments are less likely in the current market environment.  
        In a market in which liquidity is essential to our business, loan repayments have been a significant source of liquidity for us.
However, many financial institutions have drastically curtailed new lending activity and real estate owners are having difficulty refinancing their assets at maturity. If borrowers are not able to
refinance loans at their maturity, the loans could go into default and the liquidity that we would receive from such repayments will not be available. Furthermore, without a functioning commercial
real estate finance market, borrowers that are performing on their loans will most likely extend such loans if they have that right, which will further delay our ability to access liquidity through
repayments. 
 We may not be able to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, for additional liquidity, which could adversely affect our business, financial
condition and operating results.  
        Additional liquidity, future equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Our ability to
access additional debt and equity capital depends on various conditions in these markets, which are beyond our control. If we are able to complete future equity offerings, they could be dilutive to
our existing shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. Our inability to obtain adequate
capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results. 
 We may be unable to invest excess equity capital on acceptable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our operating results.  
        We may not be able to identify investments that meet our investment criteria and we may not be successful in closing the investments
that we identify. In addition, the investments that we acquire with our equity capital may not produce a return on capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify attractive
opportunities to invest our equity capital, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 
 Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  
        As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions which may change
from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following:


•the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities,
including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; 

18



 
Table of Contents


•our financial performance; and 
•general stock and bond market conditions. 

        The
market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and dividends. Consequently,
our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our book value per share of common stock. If our future earnings or dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market
price of our common stock will diminish. 
 Our stock could be at risk of being delisted by the New York Stock Exchange in the future which could have materially adverse effects on our business  
        In the event we record future losses, it is possible that the value of our common stock could decline. This possible reduction in stock
price could have materially adverse effects on our business, including reducing our ability to use our common stock as compensation or to otherwise provide incentives to employees and by reducing our
ability to generate capital through stock sales or otherwise use our stock as currency with third parties. 
        In
the event that the average closing price of our common stock is less than $1.00 or our market capitalization is less than $25.0 million over a consecutive 30
trading-day period, our stock could be delisted from the NYSE. The threat of delisting and/or a delisting of our common stock could have adverse effects by, among other
things:


•Reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; 
•Reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby further restricting our ability to
obtain equity financing; 
•Reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our directors, officers and employees. 

 A declining portfolio could adversely affect the returns from our investments.  
        Continued dislocations in the market could lead to a reduction in our loans and investments portfolio. If we do not have the
opportunity to originate quality investments to replace the reductions in our portfolio, this reduction will likely result in reduced returns from our investments. 
 Our investments in commercial mortgage-related securities are subject to risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities, which may result in losses to us.  
        Our investments in commercial mortgage-related securities involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities,
including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. The issuers of these securities are experiencing many of the same risks resulting from continued disruptions in the financial
markets and deteriorating economic conditions. In addition, our investments are also subject to the risks described above with respect to commercial real estate loans and mortgage-backed securities
and similar risks, including risks of delinquency and foreclosure, the dependence upon the successful operation of, and net income from, real property, risks generally related to interests in real
property, and risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. REITs have been severely impacted by the current economic environment and have had very little access
to the capital markets or the debt markets in order to meet their existing obligations or to refinance maturing debt. 
19



 
Table of Contents
 Our investments in residential mortgage-related securities are subject to risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities, which may result in losses to us.  
        Our investments in residential mortgage-related securities involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities,
including the financial condition of the individual borrowers and the value of the individual assets. The issuers of these securities are experiencing many of the same risks resulting from continued
disruptions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions. In addition, our investments are also subject to the risks with respect to residential real estate loans and mortgage-backed
securities and similar risks, including risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks generally related to interests in real property. 
 We depend on key personnel with long standing business relationships, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully.  
        Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of ACM as our manager and ACM's officers and
employees. In particular, the mortgage lending experience of Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Weber and the extent and nature of the relationships they have developed with developers and owners of
multi-family and commercial properties and other financial institutions are critical to the success of our business. We cannot assure their continued employment with ACM or service as our officers.
The loss of services of one or more members of our or ACM's management team could harm our business and our prospects. 
 The real estate investment business is highly competitive. Our success depends on our ability to compete with other providers of capital for real estate investments.  
        Our business is highly competitive. Competition may cause us to accept economic or structural features in our investments that we would
not have otherwise accepted and it may cause us to search for investments in markets outside of our traditional product expertise. We compete for attractive investments with traditional lending
sources, such as insurance companies and banks, as well as other REITs, specialty finance companies and private equity vehicles with similar investment objectives, which may make it more difficult for
us to consummate our target investments. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do, which provides them with greater operating flexibility and a
competitive advantage relative to us. 
 We may not achieve our targeted rate of return on our investments.  
        We originate or acquire investments based on our estimates or projections of overall rates of return on such investments, which in turn
are based upon, among other considerations, assumptions regarding the performance of assets, the amount and terms of available financing to obtain desired leverage and the manner and timing of
dispositions, including possible asset recovery and remediation strategies, all of which are subject to significant uncertainty. In addition, events or conditions that we have not anticipated may
occur and may have a significant effect on the actual rate of return received on an investment. 
        As
we acquire or originate investments for our balance sheet portfolio, whether as new additions or as replacements for maturing investments, there can be no assurance that we will be
able to originate or acquire investments that produce rates of return comparable to returns on our previous or existing investments. 
 Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower's liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business.  
        Before investing in a company or making a loan to a borrower, we will assess the strength and skills of such entity's management and
other factors that we believe are material to the performance of 
20



 
Table of Contents
the
investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we will rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This
process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance
that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. 
 We invest in junior participation loans which may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may
result in losses to us.  
        We invest in junior participation loans which is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a first mortgage on a single
commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to a senior note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there
may not be sufficient funds remaining for the junior participation loan after payment is made to the senior note holder. Since each transaction is privately negotiated, junior participation loans can
vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of junior participation loans to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain
investments. We cannot predict the terms of each junior participation investment. A junior participation may not be liquid and, consequently, we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or
non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with a subordinate position in any investments we make could subject us to increased risk of losses. 
 We invest in mezzanine loans which are subject to a greater risk of loss than loans with a first priority lien on the underlying real estate.  
        We invest in mezzanine loans that take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans
secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property.
These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income producing real property because the investment may become unsecured as a
result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such
entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower
bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value
ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. 
 Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing.  
        We invest in preferred equity investments, which involve a higher degree of risk than traditional debt financing due to a variety of
factors, including that such investments are subordinate to other loans and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should the issuer default on our investment, we would
only be able to proceed against the partnership in which we have an interest, and not the property underlying our investment. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. 
 We invest in multi-family and commercial real estate loans, which may involve a greater risk of loss than single family real estate loans.  
        Our investments include multi-family and commercial real estate loans that are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than
single family residential lending because of a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, dependency for repayment on successful operation of the 
21



 
Table of Contents
mortgaged
property and tenant businesses operating therein, and loan terms that include amortization schedules longer than the stated maturity and provide for balloon payments at stated maturity
rather than periodic principal payments. In addition, the value of commercial real estate can be affected significantly by the supply and demand in the market for that type of property. 
 Volatility of values of multi-family and commercial properties may adversely affect our loans and investments.  
        Multi-family and commercial property values and net operating income derived from such properties are subject to volatility and may be
affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events such as natural disasters, including hurricanes and earthquakes, acts of war and/or terrorism and others that may cause
unanticipated and uninsured performance declines and/or losses to us or the owners and operators of the real estate securing our investment; national, regional and local economic conditions, such as
what we have experienced over the past several years (which may be adversely affected by industry slowdowns and other factors); local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of housing, retail,
industrial, office or other commercial space); changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; construction quality, construction cost, age and design; demographic factors; retroactive
changes to building or similar codes; and increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs). In the event a property's net operating income decreases, a borrower may have difficulty repaying our
loan, which could result in losses to us. In addition, decreases in property values reduce the value of the collateral and the potential proceeds available to a borrower to repay our loans, which
could also cause us to suffer losses. 
 Many of our commercial real estate loans are funded with interest reserves and our borrowers may be unable to replenish those interest reserves once they run out.  
        Given the transitional nature of many of our commercial real estate loans, we often require borrowers to post reserves to cover
interest and operating expenses until the property cash flows are projected to increase sufficiently to cover debt service costs. We also generally required the borrower to replenish reserves if they
become depleted due to underperformance or if the borrower wants to exercise extension options under the loan. Despite low interest rates, revenues on the properties underlying any commercial real
estate loan investments will likely continue to decrease in the current economic environment, making it more difficult for borrowers to meet their payment obligations to us. We expect that in the
future some of our borrowers may continue to have difficulty servicing our debt and will not have sufficient capital to replenish reserves, which could have a significant impact on our operating
results and cash flows. 
 We may not have control over certain of our loans and investments.  
        Our ability to manage our portfolio of loans and investments may be limited by the form in which they are made. In certain situations,
we may acquire investments subject to rights of senior classes and servicers under inter-creditor or servicing agreements; acquire only a participation in an underlying investment;
co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, thereby acquiring non-controlling interests; or rely on independent third party management
or strategic partners with respect to the management of an asset. Therefore, we may not be able to exercise control over the loan or investment. Such financial assets may involve risks not present in
investments where senior creditors, servicers or third party controlling investors are not involved. Our rights to control the process following a borrower default may be subject to the rights of
senior creditors or servicers whose interests may not be aligned with ours. A third party partner or co-venturer may have financial difficulties resulting in a negative impact on such
assets and may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with ours. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third party partners or
co-venturers. 
22



 
Table of Contents
 Real estate property acquisitions may fail to perform as expected.  
        We may acquire new real estate properties through foreclosure proceedings or investment. Such newly acquired properties may not perform
as expected and may subject us to unknown liabilities relating to such properties for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination or claims by tenants, vendors or other persons
against the former owners of the properties. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. In addition, future
operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position may be underestimated. 
 The adverse resolution of a lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  
        The adverse resolution of litigation for which we have been named as a defendant could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. 
 The impact of any future terrorist attacks and the availability of terrorism insurance expose us to certain risks.  
        The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 disrupted the U.S. financial markets, including the real estate capital markets, and
negatively impacted the U.S. economy in general. Any future terrorist attacks, the anticipation of any such attacks, and the consequences of any military or other response by the United States and its
allies may have a further adverse impact on the U.S. financial markets and the economy in general. We cannot predict the severity of the effect that any such future events would have on the U.S.
financial markets, the economy or our business. Any future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the credit quality of some of our loans and investments. Some of our loans and investments will be
more susceptible to such adverse effects than others. We may suffer losses as a result of the adverse impact of any future terrorist attacks and these losses may adversely impact our results of
operations. 
        In
addition, the enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or the TRIA, and the subsequent enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007,
which extended TRIA through the end of 2014, requires insurers to make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies in order to receive federal compensation under
TRIA for insured losses. However, this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. The absence of affordable insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending
market, lending volume and the market's overall liquidity and may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us and the pace at which we are able to make investments. If the
properties
that we invest in are unable to obtain affordable insurance coverage, the value of those investments could decline and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our
investment. 
 We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and furnish a report on our internal control over financial reporting.  
        We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to assess and
attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to opine as to the adequacy of our assessment and
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the future, we may not receive an unqualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm with regard to our
internal control over financial reporting. 
23



 
Table of Contents
 Failure to maintain an exemption from regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act would adversely affect our results of operations.  
        We believe that we conduct, and we intend to conduct our business in a manner that allows us to avoid being regulated as an investment
company under the Investment Company Act. Pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring
"mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate" are currently exempted from regulation thereunder. The staff of the SEC has provided guidance on the availability of this exemption.
Specifically, the staff's position generally requires us to maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in "qualifying real estate interests." To constitute as a qualifying real estate interest under
this 55% test, an interest in real estate must meet various criteria. Loans that are secured by equity interests in entities that directly or indirectly own the underlying real property, rather than a
mortgage on the underlying property itself, and ownership of equity interests in real property owners may not qualify for purposes of the 55% test depending on the type of entity. Mortgage-related
securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may also not qualify for purposes of the 55% test. Therefore, our ownership of these
types of loans and equity interests may be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. The SEC recently solicited public comment on a wide range of issues relating to
Section 3(c)(5)(C), including the nature of the assets that qualify for purposes of the exemption and whether mortgage REITs should be regulated in a manner similar to investment companies.
There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the Investment Company Act status of REITs, including the guidance of the Division of Investment Management of the SEC regarding this
exemption, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. To the extent that we do not comply with the SEC staff's 55% test, another exemption or exclusion from
registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act or other interpretations under the Investment Company Act, or if the SEC no longer permits our exemption, we may be deemed to be
an investment company. If we fail to maintain an exemption or other exclusion from registration as an investment company we could, among other things, be required either (a) to substantially
change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an
adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial
regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act),
portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. 
 The Dodd-Frank Act may place restrictions on our business.  
        In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of
the financial services industry within the United States and, among other things, requires various federal agencies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, to adopt a broad range of new
rules and regulations. These rules and regulations are intended to impose significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations that are significant
to U.S. financial markets. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act will impose significant restrictions on the proprietary trading activities of certain banking entities and subject other
systemically significant organizations regulated by the U.S. Federal Reserve to increased capital requirements and quantitative limits for engaging in such activities. The Dodd-Frank Act
also seeks to reform the asset-backed securitization market (including the mortgage-backed securities market) by requiring the retention of a portion of the credit risk inherent in the pool of
securitized assets and by imposing additional registration and disclosure requirements. Certain of the new requirements and restrictions exempt agency securities, other government issued or guaranteed
securities, or other securities. Nonetheless, the Dodd-Frank Act also imposes significant regulatory restrictions on the 
24



 
Table of Contents
origination
of residential mortgage loans. Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to the regulation of derivatives may also result in a comprehensive reform of the derivatives markets. While the
full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be assessed until implementing regulations are finalized and ultimately adopted, the Dodd-Frank Act's extensive requirements may have a
significant effect on the financial markets, and may affect the availability or terms of financing from our lender counterparties and the availability or terms of mortgage-backed securities, both of
which could have an adverse effect on our business. 
 The impact of any future laws, as well as amendments to current laws, may place restrictions on our business.  
        Additional legislation could impose additional financial obligations or restrictions with respect to our business. The continued
difficult economic environment has placed an increased level of scrutiny on the financial services sector, which has already expedited, to some degree, the signing of the Dodd-Frank Act as
noted above. While the Dodd-Frank Act does represent a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry, it is possible that additional legislation could be deemed necessary and
signed into law. At this time, it is difficult to predict the exact nature of any future legislation and the extent to which such legislation, if any, will impact our business, financial condition, or
results of operations. 
 The effects of government regulation could negatively impact the market value of loans related to development projects.  
        Loans related to development projects bear additional risk in that government regulation could impact the value of the project by
limiting the development of the property. If the proper approvals for the completion of the project are not granted, the value of the collateral may be adversely affected which may negatively impact
the value of the loan. 
 
 
  Risks Related to Our Financing and Hedging Activities     
 We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.  
        We generally finance our assets over the short and long-term through a variety of means, including repurchase agreements,
credit facilities, junior subordinated notes, CDOs and other structured financings. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on various conditions in the markets for financing in this manner that
are beyond our control, including lack of liquidity and wider credit spreads, which we have seen over the past several years. If conditions continue to worsen, we cannot assure that these sources are
feasible as a means of financing our assets, as there can be no assurance that any existing agreements will be renewed or extended at expiration. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find
alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, as credit facilities and repurchase facilities may not
accommodate long-term financing. This could subject us to more recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of
our cash flows, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities. 
 Credit facilities may contain restrictive covenants relating to our operations.  
        Credit facilities may contain various financial covenants and restrictions, including minimum net worth, minimum liquidity and
debt-to-equity ratios. Other restrictive covenants contained in credit facility agreements may include covenants that prohibit affecting a change in control, disposing of or
encumbering assets being financed, maximum debt balance requirements, and restrictions from making material amendments to underwriting guidelines without approval of the lender. While we remain
focused on actively managing our loans and investments portfolio, a continued weak environment will 
25



 
Table of Contents
make
maintaining compliance with future credit facilities' covenants more difficult. If we are not in compliance with any of these covenants, there can be no assurance that our lenders would waive or
amend such non-compliance in the future and any such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on us. 
 Investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed.  
        The continued turmoil in the structured finance markets, including sub-prime residential loans and commercial real estate
loans, has negatively impacted the credit markets in general. As a result, investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed. In recent years, we have relied to a
substantial extent on CDO financings to obtain match-funded financing for our investments. Until and unless the market for commercial real estate CDOs recovers, we may be unable to utilize CDOs to
finance our investments and we may need to utilize less favorable sources of financing to finance our investments on a long-term basis. There can be no assurance as to when or if the
demand for commercial real estate CDOs will return, what the terms of such securities investors will demand, or whether we will be able to issue CDOs to finance our investments on terms beneficial to
us. 
 We may not be able to obtain the level of leverage necessary to optimize our return on investment.  
        Our return on investment depends, in part, upon our ability to grow our balance sheet portfolio of invested assets through the use of
leverage at a cost of debt that is lower than the yield earned on our investments. We typically obtain leverage through the issuance of CDOs, credit agreements, repurchase agreements and other
borrowings. Our future ability to obtain the necessary leverage on beneficial terms ultimately depends upon the quality of the portfolio assets that collateralize our indebtedness. Our failure to
obtain and/or maintain leverage at desired levels, or to obtain leverage on attractive terms, would have a material adverse effect on our performance. Moreover, we may be dependent upon a few lenders
to provide financing under credit agreements and repurchase agreements for our origination or acquisition of loans and investments and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed
or extended at expiration. Our ability to obtain financing through CDOs is subject to conditions in the debt capital markets which are impacted by factors beyond our control that may at times be
adverse and reduce the level of investor demand for such securities. 
 The credit facilities and repurchase agreements that we may use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral.  
        We may use credit facilities and repurchase agreements to finance some of our investments in the future. If the market value of the
loans pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. We may not
have the funds available to pay down such future debt, which could result in defaults. Posting additional collateral to support these potential repurchase and credit facilities would reduce our
liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate the indebtedness, increase
interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow. Further, facility providers may require us to maintain a certain amount of uninvested cash or set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a
specified liquidity position which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our
return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. 
26



 
Table of Contents
 Our use of leverage may create a mismatch with the duration and index of the investments that we are financing.  
        We attempt to structure our leverage such that we minimize the difference between the term of our investments and the leverage we use
to finance such an investment. In the event that our leverage is for a shorter term than the financed investment, we may not be able to extend or find appropriate replacement leverage and that would
have an adverse impact on our liquidity and our returns. In the event that our leverage is for a longer term than the financed investment, we may not be able to repay such leverage or replace the
financed investment with an optimal substitute or at all, which will negatively impact our desired leveraged returns. 
        We
attempt to structure our leverage such that we minimize the difference between the index of our investments and the index of our leverage—financing floating rate
investments with floating rate leverage and fixed rate investments with fixed rate leverage. If such a product is not available to us from our lenders on reasonable terms, we may use hedging
instruments to effectively create such a match. For example, in the case of fixed rate investments, we may finance such an investment with floating rate leverage, but effectively convert all or a
portion of the attendant leverage to fixed rate using hedging strategies. 
        Our
attempts to mitigate such risk are subject to factors outside of our control, such as the availability to us of favorable financing and hedging options, which is subject to a variety
of factors, of which duration and term matching are only two such factors. 
 We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our portfolio, which may subject us to an increased risk of loss, adversely affecting the return on our investments and
reducing cash available for distribution.  
        We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our operations, which may compound losses and reduce the cash available for
distributions to our stockholders. We generally leverage our portfolio through the use of securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs, bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, and other
borrowings. The leverage we employ varies depending on our availability of funds, ability to obtain credit facilities, the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios of our
assets, the yield on our assets, the targeted leveraged return we expect from our portfolio and our ability to meet ongoing covenants related to our asset mix and financial performance. Substantially
all of our assets are pledged as collateral for our borrowings. In addition, we may acquire real estate property subject to debt obligations. Our return on our investments and cash available for
distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that we can derive from the assets we
acquire. 
        Our
debt service payments, including payments in connection with any CDOs, reduce the net income available for distributions. Moreover, we may not be able to meet our debt service
obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. Currently, neither our charter nor our bylaws
impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our assets. 
 We may guarantee some of our leverage and contingent obligations.  
        We may guarantee the performance of some of our obligations in the future, including but not limited to any repurchase agreements,
derivative agreements, and unsecured indebtedness. Non-performance on such obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may invest/commit to under such
obligations and there is no assurance that we will have sufficient capital to cover any such losses. 
27



 
Table of Contents
 We may not be able to acquire suitable investments for a CDO issuance, or we may not be able to issue CDOs on attractive terms, or at all, which may require us to utilize
more costly financing for our investments.  
        We have financed, and, if the opportunities exist in the future, we may continue to finance certain of our investments through the
issuance of CDOs. During the period that we are acquiring investments for eventual long-term financing through CDOs, we have typically financed these investments through repurchase and
credit agreements. We use these agreements to finance our acquisition of investments until we have accumulated a sufficient quantity of investments, at which time we may refinance them through a
securitization, such as a CDO issuance. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire a sufficient amount of eligible investments to maximize the efficiency of a CDO
issuance. In addition, conditions in the debt capital markets may make the issuance of CDOs less attractive to us even when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral, or we may not be able to execute
a CDO transaction due to substantial curtailment in demand for commercial real estate CDOs, such as currently exists. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these investments, we may be required
to utilize other forms of potentially less attractive financing. 
 We may not be able to find suitable replacement investments for CDOs with reinvestment periods.  
        Our CDOs have periods where principal proceeds received from assets securing the CDO can be reinvested for a defined period of time,
commonly referred to as a reinvestment period. Our ability to find suitable investments during the reinvestment period that meet the criteria set forth in the CDO governing documents and by rating
agencies may determine the success of our CDO investments. Our potential inability to find suitable investments may cause, among other things, lower returns, interest deficiencies, hyper-amortization
of the senior CDO liabilities and may cause us to reduce the life of our CDOs and accelerate the amortization of certain fees and expenses. 
 The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization and interest coverage requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flows.  
        The terms of CDOs will generally provide that the principal amount of investments must exceed the principal balance of the related
bonds by a certain amount and that interest income exceeds interest expense by a certain amount. Generally, CDO terms provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses or other factors cause a
decline in collateral or cash flow levels, the cash flow otherwise payable on subordinated classes may be redirected to repay senior classes of CDOs until the issuer or the collateral is in compliance
with the terms of the governing documents. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive net income from assets pledged to secure CDOs. We cannot
assure that the performance tests will be satisfied. If our investments fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization, interest coverage or other credit enhancement expense
associated with our CDO financings will increase. With respect to future CDOs we may issue, we cannot assure, in advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction
parties as to the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization and interest coverage terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors upon which net income
to us will be calculated. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may adversely affect the availability of net income to us. 
 We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of our CDOs.  
        If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize through CDOs do not comply with representations and warranties we
make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, in the
case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans
typically require a significant allocation of working 
28



 
Table of Contents
capital
to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could adversely affect our financial condition and
operating results. 
 Our loans and investments may be subject to fluctuations in interest rates which may not be adequately protected, or protected at all, by our hedging strategies.  
        Our current balance sheet investment program emphasizes loans with both floating interest rates and fixed interest rates. Floating rate
investments earn interest at rates that adjust from time to time (typically monthly) based upon an index (typically LIBOR), allowing this portion of our portfolio to be insulated from changes in value
due specifically to changes in interest rates. Fixed interest rate investments, however, do not have adjusting interest rates and, as prevailing interest rates change, the relative value of the fixed
cash flows from these investments will cause potentially significant changes in value. Depending on market conditions, fixed rate assets may become a greater portion of our new loan originations. We
may employ various hedging strategies to limit the effects of changes in interest rates (and in some cases credit spreads), including engaging in interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest
rate derivative products. No strategy can completely insulate us from the risks associated with interest rate changes and there is a risk that they may provide no protection at all and potentially
compound the impact of changes in interest rates. Hedging transactions involve certain additional risks such as counterparty risk, the legal enforceability of hedging contracts, the early repayment of
hedged transactions and the risk that unanticipated and significant changes in interest rates may cause a significant loss of basis in the contract and a change in current period expense. We cannot
make assurances that we will be able to enter into hedging transactions or that such hedging transactions will adequately protect us against the foregoing risks. In addition, cash flow hedges which
are not perfectly correlated (and appropriately designated and documented as such) with a variable rate financing will impact our reported income as gains and losses on the ineffective portion of such
hedges will be recorded on our Statement of Operations. 
 Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental
authorities and involve risks and costs.  
        The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument lengthens and during periods of rising and
volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. 
        In
addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they currently are often not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S.
or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the
enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the
counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a
party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although
generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging
counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. We cannot assure that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and
we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. 
29




 










Table of Contents 
 We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future.  
        Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that
could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances (e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early
termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract). The amount due would be equal to the unrealized
loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our
ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. 
 Changes in values of our derivative contracts could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.  
        Certain of our derivative contracts, which are designed to hedge interest rate risk associated with a portion of our loans and
investments, could require the funding of additional cash collateral for changes in the market value of these contracts. Due to the continued volatility in the financial markets, the value of these
contracts have declined substantially. As a result, as of December 31, 2011, we funded approximately $21.9 million in cash related to these contracts. If we continue to experience
significant changes in the outlook of interest rates, these contracts could continue to decline in value, which would require additional cash to be funded. However, at maturity, the value of these
contracts return to par and all cash will be recovered. We may not have available cash to meet these requirements, which could result in the early termination of these derivatives, leaving us exposed
to interest rate risk associated with these loans and investments, which could adversely impact our financial condition. 
 We are subject to certain counterparty risks related to our derivative contracts.  
        We periodically hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by entering into derivative financial instrument contracts. As a result of
the continued global credit crisis, there is a risk that counterparties could fail, shut down, file for bankruptcy or be unable to pay out contracts. The failure of a counterparty that holds
collateral that we post in connection with certain interest rate swap agreements could result in the loss of such collateral. 
 
 
  Risks Related to Our Corporate and Ownership Structure     
 We are substantially controlled by ACM and Mr. Kaufman.  
        Mr. Ivan Kaufman, our chairman, chief executive officer and president and the chief executive officer of ACM, beneficially owns
approximately 92% of the outstanding membership interests of ACM. ACM currently has approximately 22% of the voting power of our outstanding stock. As a result of Mr. Kaufman's beneficial
ownership of stock held by ACM as well as his beneficial ownership of additional shares of our common stock, Mr. Kaufman currently has approximately 23% of the voting power of our outstanding
stock. Because of his position with us and
our manager and his ability to effectively vote a substantial minority of our outstanding stock, Mr. Kaufman has significant influence over our policies and strategy. 
 Our charter as amended generally does not permit ownership in excess of 7.0% of our capital stock, and attempts to acquire our capital stock in excess of this limit are
ineffective without prior approval from our Board of Directors.  
        For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our charter generally prohibits direct or constructive ownership by any person of
more than 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or 7.0% (by value) of our 
30



 
Table of Contents
outstanding
shares of capital stock. For purposes of this calculation, warrants held by such person will be deemed to have been exercised if such exercise would result in a violation. Our charter's
constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As
a result, the acquisition of less than these percentages of the outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of these percentages
of the outstanding stock and thus be subject to our charter's ownership limit. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock in excess of the ownership limit without the
consent of the Board of Directors will result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or otherwise voided. Our Board of Directors have approved resolutions under our
charter allowing a more than 7% ownership interest for Ivan Kaufman and ACM, in relation to Mr. Kaufman's controlling equity interest, as well as C. Michael Kojaian, one of our independent
directors. 
 Our staggered board and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control.  
        Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors. The current terms of the Class I, Class II and
Class III directors will expire in 2013, 2014 and 2012, respectively. Directors of each class are chosen for three year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class
of directors is elected by the stockholders. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or
change in control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction
or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 
 
 
  Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest with Our Manager     
 We are dependent on our manager with whom we have conflicts of interest.  
        We have only 32 employees, including Messrs. Weber, Kilgore, Felletter, and Guziewicz, and are dependent upon our manager to
provide services to us that are vital to our operations. ACM, our manager, currently has approximately 22% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our capital stock and Mr. Kaufman,
our chairman and chief executive officer and the chief executive officer of ACM, beneficially owns these shares. Mr. Martello, one of our directors, is the chief operating officer of Arbor
Management, LLC (the managing member of ACM) and a trustee of two trusts which own minority membership interests in ACM. Mr. Bishar, who was a director until January 27, 2012, is
general counsel to ACM. Mr. Elenio, our chief financial officer and treasurer, is the chief financial officer of ACM. Mr. Horn, our secretary and one of our directors, is the secretary
of ACM. Each of Messrs. Kaufman, Martello, Bishar, Elenio, Weber and Kilgore are members of ACM's executive committee and all, including Messrs. Horn and Felletter, own minority
membership interests in ACM. 
        We
may enter into transactions with ACM outside the terms of the management agreement with the approval of a majority vote of the independent members of our Board of Directors.
Transactions required to be approved by a majority of our independent directors include, but are not limited to, our ability to purchase securities, mortgages and other assets from ACM or to sell
securities and assets to ACM. ACM may from time to time provide permanent mortgage loan financing to clients of ours, which will be used to refinance bridge financing provided by us. We and ACM may
also make loans to the same borrower or to borrowers that are under common control. Additionally, our policies and those of ACM may require us to enter into intercreditor agreements in situations
where loans are made by us and ACM to the same borrower. 
        We
have entered into a management agreement with our manager under which our manager provides us with all of the services vital to our operations other than asset management and
securitization services. Certain matters relating to our organization were not approved at arm's length 
31



 
Table of Contents
and
the terms of the contribution of assets to us may not be as favorable to us as if the contribution was with an unaffiliated third party. 
        The
results of our operations are dependent upon the availability of, and our manager's ability to identify and capitalize on, investment opportunities. Our manager's officers and
employees are also responsible for providing the same services for ACM's portfolio of investments. As a result, they may not be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business
operations. 
 Our directors have approved very broad investment guidelines for our manager and do not approve each investment decision made by our manager.  
        Our manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. Our directors will periodically review our investment guidelines
and our investment portfolio. However, our board does not review each proposed investment. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors rely primarily on information provided to them by
our manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our manager may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. Our manager has great latitude within the
broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us. 
 Our manager has broad discretion to invest funds and may acquire structured finance assets where the investment returns are substantially below expectations or that result
in net operating losses.  
        Our manager has broad discretion, within the general investment criteria established by our Board of Directors, to allocate our capital
and to determine the timing of investment of such capital. Such discretion could result in allocation of capital to assets where the investment returns are substantially below expectations or that
result in net operating losses, which would materially and adversely affect our business, operations and results. 
        The
management compensation structure that we have agreed to with our manager may cause our manager to invest in high risk investments. Our manager is entitled to a base management fee,
which is based on an agreed upon budget which represents the actual cost of managing the business. Our manager is also entitled to receive incentive compensation based in part upon our achievement of
targeted levels of funds from operations. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on funds from operations may lead our manager
to place undue emphasis on the maximization of funds from operations at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments
with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our invested portfolio. 
 
 
  Risk Related to Our Status as a REIT     
 If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability.  
        We conduct our operations to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. However, qualification as a REIT involves the
application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could
jeopardize our REIT status. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements
on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited
influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 
32



 
Table of Contents
        Furthermore,
new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to
qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then:


•we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means we would be unable to deduct
distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;  
•any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to
stockholders; and 
•unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT
for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and thus, our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for each of the years
during which we did not qualify as a REIT. 

 Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.  
        Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and
assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage
recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of
a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations, the income of which would be
subject to federal and state income tax. Under current federal tax law however, the income and the tax on such income attributable to certain debt extinguishment transactions realized in 2009 and 2010
have been deferred to future periods at our election. 
 The "taxable mortgage pool" rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations.  
        Certain of our securitizations have resulted in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. So long as 100%
of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool are owned by an entity that qualifies as a REIT, including our subsidiary Arbor Realty SR, Inc., we would generally not be adversely affected
by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty or other tax benefits,
stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their
dividend income from us that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. In addition, to the extent that our stock is owned by tax-exempt "disqualified organizations," such as certain
government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we could incur a corporate level tax on a portion of our income from the taxable mortgage pool. In that case, we
may reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified
organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. Moreover, we could be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities
issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns
from securitization transactions. 
 Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.  
        To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of
our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to 
33



 
Table of Contents
make
distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to
operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. 
 Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.  
        To qualify as a REIT we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash,
cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities generally cannot comprise more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities, or
more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities, of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than assets which qualify for purposes of
the 75% asset test) may consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If
we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status
and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. 
 Liquidation of collateral may jeopardize our REIT status.  
        To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled
to liquidate investments to satisfy our obligations to future lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT. 
 We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay dividends to our stockholders.  
        As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income each year to our stockholders, though under the
terms of our junior subordinated note agreements, annual dividends are limited to 100% of taxable income to common shareholders and are required to be paid in the form of our stock to the maximum
extent permissible (currently 90%), with the balance payable in cash. In order to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs, we intend to declare quarterly dividends and to make distributions to
our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all of our taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments. However, our ability to make distributions may be
adversely affected by the risk factors described in this report. In the event of future investment opportunities, a downturn in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated
declines in the value of our asset portfolio, we may be unable to declare or pay quarterly dividends or make distributions to our stockholders. The timing and amount of dividends are in the sole
discretion of our Board of Directors, which considers, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, debt service obligations and applicable debt covenants, REIT qualification requirements
and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements as our board may deem relevant from time to time. 
        Among
the factors that could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders
are:


•use of funds and our ability to make profitable structured finance investments;  
•defaults in our asset portfolio or decreases in the value of our portfolio;  
•the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates; and 

34



 
Table of Contents


•increased debt service requirements, including those resulting from higher interest rates on variable rate indebtedness. 

        A
change in any one of these factors could affect our ability to make distributions. If we are not able to comply with the restrictive covenants and financial ratios contained in future
credit facilities, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may also be impaired. We cannot assure that we will be able to make distributions to our stockholders in the future or that the
level of any distributions we make will increase over time. 
 We may need to borrow funds in order to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements, and a portion of our distributions may constitute a return of capital. Debt service on
any borrowings for this purpose will reduce our cash available for distribution.  
        In order to qualify as a REIT, we must generally, among other requirements, distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to
certain adjustments, to our stockholders each year, though under the terms of our junior subordinated note agreements, annual dividends are limited to 100% of taxable income to common shareholders and
are required to be paid in the form of our stock to the maximum extent permissible (currently 90%), with the balance payable in cash. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but
distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise
tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. 
        From
time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for
distribution to our stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds, issue stock or sell investments and our equity securities at
disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the
4% excise tax in a particular year. 
 We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock.  
        At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may change. Any such
changes may have a retroactive effect, and could adversely affect us or our stockholders. Legislation enacted in 2003 and extended in 2006 and again in 2010 generally reduced the federal income tax
rate on most dividends paid by corporations to individual investors to a maximum of 15% (through 2012). REIT dividends, with limited exceptions, will not benefit from the rate reduction, because a
REIT's income generally is not subject to corporate level taxes. As such, this legislation could cause shares in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to individual
investors than shares in REITs, and could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. 
 Restrictions on share accumulation in REITs could discourage a change of control of us.  
        In order for us to qualify as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly
or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of a taxable year. 
        In
order to prevent five or fewer individuals from acquiring more than 50% of our outstanding shares and a resulting failure to qualify as a REIT, our charter provides that, subject to
certain exceptions, no person, including entities, may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, more than 7.0% of the aggregate value or number of
shares (whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common stock, or more than 7.0%, by value, of our 
35



 
Table of Contents
outstanding
shares of capital stock of all classes, in the aggregate. For purposes of the ownership limitations, warrants held by a person will be deemed to have been exercised if such exercise would
result in a violation of the charter provisions. 
        Shares
of our stock that would otherwise be directly or indirectly acquired or held by a person in violation of the ownership limitations are, in general, automatically transferred to a
trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary, and the purported owner's interest in such shares is void. In addition, any
person who acquires shares in excess of these limits is obliged to immediately give written notice to us and provide us with any information we may request in order to determine the effect of the
acquisition on our status as a REIT. 
        While
these restrictions are designed to prevent any five individuals from owning more than 50% of our shares, they could also discourage a change in control of our company. These
restrictions may also deter tender offers that may be attractive to stockholders or limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares if an investor makes purchases of
shares to acquire a block of shares. 
        Moreover,
the current level of the ownership limit that applies to our stockholders, generally 7.0%, is such that in conjunction with exemptions that were granted to
Mssrs. Kaufman and Kojaian by our Board of Directors, if individuals were to acquire stock in the maximum amounts thereby permitted, our ability to qualify as a REIT could be jeopardized. We
believe that the actual ownership of our stock has complied with the REIT qualification requirements, and we expect to be able to maintain such compliance in the future. Nevertheless, no assurance can
be given that future ownership of our stock will be such that we will be able to maintain our qualification as a REIT. 
 Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.  
        The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. Under current law, income that we
generate from derivatives or other transactions intended to hedge various risks may be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the REIT income tests, unless certain requirements
are met, and our position in such a hedging or derivative transaction, to the extent that it has positive value, may be treated as a non-qualifying asset for purposes of the REIT asset
tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other
changes than we would otherwise incur. 
36



 
Table of Contents
 
    ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS     
        Not applicable.  
 
    ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES     
        Arbor Commercial Mortgage, our manager, leases our shared principal executive and administrative offices, located at 333 Earle
Ovington Boulevard in Uniondale, New York.  
 
    ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     
        We are not involved in any material litigation nor, to our knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against us other than the
following: 
        On
June 15, 2011, three related lawsuits were filed by the Extended Stay Litigation Trust (the "Trust"), a post-bankruptcy litigation trust alleged to have standing to
pursue claims that previously had been held by Extended Stay, Inc. and the Homestead Village L.L.C. family of companies (together "ESI") (formerly Chapter 11 debtors, together the
"Debtors") that have emerged from bankruptcy. Two of the lawsuits were filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York, and the third in the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, New York County. (The New York State Court action has been removed to the Bankruptcy Court). There are 73 defendants in the three lawsuits, including 55 corporate and partnership
entities and 18 individuals. A subsidiary of ours and certain other entities that are affiliates of ours are included as defendants. 
        The
lawsuits all allege, as a factual basis and background, certain facts surrounding the June 2007 leveraged buyout of ESI from affiliates of Blackstone Capital. Our subsidiary, Arbor
ESH II, LLC, had a $115.0 million investment in the Series A1 Preferred Units of a holding company of Extended Stay, Inc. The New York State Court action and one of the two
federal court actions name as defendants, Arbor ESH II, LLC, Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC and ABT-ESI LLC, an entity in which we have a membership interest, among
the broad group of defendants. These two
actions were commenced by substantially identical complaints. The defendants are alleged in these complaints, among other things, to have breached fiduciary and contractual duties by causing or
allowing the Debtors to pay illegal dividends or other improper distributions of value at a time when the Debtors were insolvent. These two complaints also allege that the defendants aided and
abetted, induced, or participated in breaches of fiduciary duty, waste, and unjust enrichment ("Fiduciary Duty Claims") and name a director of ours, and a former general counsel of Arbor Commercial
Mortgage, LLC, each of whom had served on the Board of Directors of ESI for a period of time. We are defending these two defendants and paying the costs of such defense. On the basis of the
foregoing allegations, the Trust has asserted claims under a number of common law theories, seeking the return of assets transferred by the Debtors prior to the Debtors' bankruptcy filing. 
        In
the third action, filed in Bankruptcy Court, the same plaintiff, the Trust, has named Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC and ABT-ESI LLC, together with a number
of other defendants and asserts claims, including constructive and fraudulent conveyance claims under state and federal statutes, as well as a claim under the Federal Debt Collection Procedure Act. 
        The
complaints seek among other things, damages of not less than $2.1 billion, plus punitive damages, on a joint and several basis, from each defendant in connection with the
Fiduciary Duty Claims and the return of in excess of $50.0 million which is alleged to have been wrongfully received by the holders of the Series A1 Preferred Units, including Arbor ESH
II, LLC. We have moved to dismiss the referenced actions and intend to vigorously defend against the claims asserted therein. 
        We
have not made a loss accrual for this litigation because we believe that is not probable that a loss has been incurred and an amount cannot be reasonably estimated. 
 
    ITEM 4.    RESERVED     
37




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART II     
 
    ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES     
 Market Information  
        Our common stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "ABR" since our initial public offering in April 2004.
The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low sales prices for our common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, and the dividends declared and paid with
respect to such periods. 



















 
 
High 
 
Low 
 
Dividends
Declared 
 


 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First Quarter(1)
 
$
3.41
 
$
1.87
 
$
 —
 


 Second Quarter(1)
 
$
5.64
 
$
3.12
 
$
 —
 


 Third Quarter(1)
 
$
6.29
 
$
4.43
 
$
 —
 


 Fourth Quarter(1)
 
$
6.08
 
$
4.89
 
$
 —
 


 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First Quarter(2)
 
$
7.50
 
$
5.50
 
$
 —
 


 Second Quarter(2)
 
$
5.71
 
$
3.91
 
$
 —
 


 Third Quarter(2)
 
$
4.98
 
$
3.57
 
$
 —
 


 Fourth Quarter(2)
 
$
4.03
 
$
3.19
 
$
 —
 








(1)Our
Board of Directors elected not to pay a common stock distribution for the calendar year ended December 31, 2010.
(2)Our
Board of Directors elected not to pay a common stock distribution for the calendar year ended December 31, 2011. 

        We
are organized and conduct our operations to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or a REIT, which requires that we distribute at least 90% of taxable income. No assurance,
however, can be given as to the amounts or timing of future distributions as such distributions are subject to our taxable earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and such other factors as
our Board of Directors deems relevant. 
        On
March 1, 2012, the closing sale price for our common stock, as reported on the NYSE, was $4.75. As of March 1, 2012, there were 5,606 record holders of our common stock,
including persons holding shares in broker accounts under street names. 
38



 
Table of Contents
 Equity Compensation Plan Information  
        The following table presents information as of December 31, 2011 regarding the Stock Incentive Plan and the incentive
compensation provisions of our management agreement with Arbor Commercial Mortgage, which are our only equity compensation plans: 



















Plan Category



 
Number of Securities
to be Issued Upon
Exercise of
Outstanding Options,
Warrants and Rights 
 
Weighted Average
Exercise Price of
Outstanding
Options, Warrants
and Rights 
 
Number of
Securities
Remaining
Available
for Future Issuance 
 


 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 2003 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan(1)
 
 
0
 
 
N/A
 
 
936,843
 


 Incentive Compensation pursuant to Management Agreement(2)
 
 
0
 
 
N/A
 
 
See Note 3
 


 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
 
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
0
 
 
N/A
 
 
936,843
(3)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)On
June 18, 2009, the shareholders authorized the issuance of an additional 1,250,000 shares of the Company's common stock to be used for grants
under the Stock Incentive Plan.
(2)Pursuant
to the terms of our management agreement with Arbor Commercial Mortgage, at least 25% of the incentive compensation earned by our Manager is
payable in shares of our common stock having a value equal to the average closing price per share for the last twenty days of the fiscal quarter for which the incentive compensation is being paid.
Arbor Commercial Mortgage has the right to elect to receive 100% of the incentive compensation in shares of our common stock. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Commitments—Management Agreement" for information regarding the terms of our management agreement and the incentive compensation
payable to Arbor Commercial Mortgage thereunder. Our sole stockholder immediately prior to the date we entered into the management agreement with Arbor Commercial Mortgage approved the issuance of
shares of our common stock to Arbor Commercial Mortgage pursuant to the incentive compensation provisions of the management agreement.
(3)The
number of securities remaining available for future issuance to Arbor Commercial Mortgage as incentive compensation pursuant to the management agreement
depends on the amount of incentive compensation earned by Arbor Commercial Mortgage in the future and therefore is not yet determinable. 

        The
Compensation Committee granted an independent director an award of 15,000 shares of fully vested common stock under the Company's Stock Incentive Plan as of January 22, 2012.
Consistent with its historical practice of granting annual stock based awards to independent directors, certain executive officers of the Company, certain employees of the Company and the Manager with
respect to their service to the Company in the most recently completed fiscal year, in 2012, the Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant independent directors, certain executives and
certain employees stock-based awards, consisting of restricted stock with a multi-year vesting schedule and/or stock options with a multi-year vesting schedule under our Stock
Incentive Plan with respect to their service to the Company in 2011. 
39



 
Table of Contents
 Performance Graph  
        Set forth below is a line graph comparing the cumulative total stockholder return on shares of our common stock with the cumulative
total return of the NAREIT All REIT Index and the Russell 2000 Index. The five year period commences on December 31, 2006 and ends on December 31, 2011, the end of our most recently
completed fiscal year. The graph assumes an investment of $100 on January 1, 2007 and the reinvestment of any dividends. This graph is not necessarily indicative of future price performance.
The information included in the graph and table below was obtained from SNL Financial LC, Charlottesville, VA.© 2012. 
 
 
Arbor Realty Trust, Inc.     Total Return Performance     































 
 
Period Ending 
 


Index



 
12/31/06 
 
12/31/07 
 
12/31/08 
 
12/31/09 
 
12/31/10 
 
12/31/11 
 


 Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. 
 
 
100.00
 
 
59.54
 
 
13.12
 
 
8.85
 
 
26.51
 
 
15.66
 


 Russell 2000
 
 
100.00
 
 
98.43
 
 
65.18
 
 
82.89
 
 
105.14
 
 
100.75
 


 NAREIT All REIT Index
 
 
100.00
 
 
82.17
 
 
51.49
 
 
65.62
 
 
83.72
 
 
89.82
 




        In
accordance with SEC rules, this section entitled "Performance Graph" shall not be incorporated by reference into any of our future filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange
Act, and shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. 
40



 
Table of Contents
 Recent Issuances of Unregistered Securities; Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities  
        In connection with a debt restructuring with Wachovia Bank in the third quarter of 2009, we issued warrants that entitle Wachovia (now
Wells Fargo) to purchase one million shares of our common stock at an average strike price of $4.00. The warrants were issued without registration in reliance on the exemption provided by
Section 4(2) of the 1933 Act. Of such warrants, 500,000 warrants are exercisable immediately at a price of $3.50, 250,000 warrants are exercisable after July 23, 2010 at a price of $4.00
and 250,000 warrants are exercisable after July 23, 2011 at a price of $5.00. All warrants expire on July 23, 2015 and no warrants have been exercised to date. 
        In
June 2010, our registration statement to permit the resale of the shares underlying the one million warrants was declared effective by the SEC and we paid all of the expenses related
to the registration. We are obligated to keep this registration statement effective for a period of up to two years. 
        ACM
elected to receive 666,927 shares of common stock as incentive compensation earned under the management agreement for the year ended December 31, 2010 which was subsequently
remitted in March 2011. The issuance of these 666,927 shares has not been registered under the Securities Act in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) thereof. 
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
        During the three months ended December 31, 2011, we made the following purchases of shares of our common stock that are
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 






















Period



 
Total Number
of Shares
Purchased 
 
Average Price
Paid per Share 
 
Total Number
of Shares Purchased
as Part of Publicly
Announced Plans
or Programs 
 
Maximum
Number of Shares
that May Yet be
Purchased Under
the Plan(1) 
 


 October 1, 2011 through October 31, 2011
 
 
623,770
 
$
3.58
 
 
623,770
 
 
150,242
 


 November 1, 2011 through November 30, 2011
 
 

150,242
 
$

3.68
 
 

150,242
 
 

—
 


 December 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 








(1)On
June 14, 2011, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan that enabled us to buy up to 1.5 million shares
of our common stock. At management's discretion, shares could be acquired from time to time on the open market, through privately negotiated transactions or pursuant to a
Rule 10b5-1 plan. A Rule 10b5-1 plan permits us to repurchase shares at times when we might otherwise be prevented from doing so. All of the 774,012 shares above
were purchased in the open market. As of December 31, 2011, the Company repurchased all of the 1.5 million shares of its common stock under this stock repurchase plan at a total cost of
$5.7 million and an average cost of $3.83 per share. On December 20, 2011, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan that enables us to buy up to
0.5 million shares of our common stock. The program may be terminated at any time and will expire on July 3, 2012. As of March 1, 2012, we repurchased 170,170 shares of our common
stock under this stock repurchase plan at a total cost of $0.7 million and an average cost of $4.02 per share. 

41



 
Table of Contents
        For
the year ended December 31, 2011, we made the following purchases of shares of our common stock that are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. 
















Period



 
Total Number
of Shares
Purchased 
 
Average
Price Paid
per Share 
 


 January 1, 2011 through March 31, 2011
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 April 1, 2011 through June 30, 2011
 
 
34,850
 
$
4.48
 


 July 1, 2011 through September 30, 2011
 
 
691,138
 
$
4.05
 


 October 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011
 
 
774,012
 
$
3.60
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
1,500,000
 
$
3.83
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




42




 










Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     
 
    SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF  ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES     
        The following tables present selected historical consolidated financial information for the periods indicated. The selected historical
consolidated financial information presented below under the captions "Consolidated Statement of Operations Data" and "Consolidated Balance Sheet Data" have been derived from our audited consolidated
financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring accruals, which management considers necessary for a fair presentation of the historical consolidated financial
statements for such period. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. In addition, since the
information presented below is only a summary and does not provide all of the information contained in our historical consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, you should read it
in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our historical consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, included
elsewhere in this report. 

























 
 
Year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest income
 
$
73,867,556
 
$
95,487,325
 
$
117,262,129
 
$
204,135,097
 
$
273,984,357
 


 Interest expense
 
 
51,651,933
 
 
62,979,036
 
 
80,102,075
 
 
108,656,702
 
 
147,710,194
 


 Net interest income
 
 
22,215,623
 
 
32,508,289
 
 
37,160,054
 
 
95,478,395
 
 
126,274,163
 


 Total other revenue
 
 
24,356,855
 
 
1,069,454
 
 
809,808
 
 
82,329
 
 
39,503
 


 Other-than-temporary impairment
 
 
—
 
 
7,004,800
 
 
10,260,555
 
 
17,573,980
 
 
—
 


 Provision for loan losses (net of recoveries)
 
 
38,542,888
 
 
82,811,753
 
 
241,328,039
 
 
132,000,000
 
 
2,500,000
 


 Loss on sale and restructuring of loans
 
 
5,710,000
 
 
7,214,481
 
 
57,579,561
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Management fee—related party
 
 
8,300,000
 
 
26,365,448
 
 
15,136,170
 
 
3,539,854
 
 
25,004,975
 


 Other expenses
 
 
45,842,608
 
 
15,055,554
 
 
20,659,289
 
 
16,307,371
 
 
14,974,230
 


 Gain on exchange of profits interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
55,988,411
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Gain on extinguishment of debt
 
 
10,878,218
 
 
229,321,130
 
 
54,080,118
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Loss on sale of securities, net
 
 
—
 
 
(6,989,583
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Loss on termination of swaps
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(8,729,408
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Income (loss) from equity affiliates
 
 
3,671,386
 
 
(1,259,767
)
 
(438,507
)
 
(2,347,296
)
 
34,573,594
 


 Provision for income taxes
 
 
—
 
 
2,560,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
16,885,000
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations
 
 
(37,273,414
)
 
113,637,487
 
 
(206,093,138
)
 
(76,207,777
)
 
101,523,055
 


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(2,822,643
)
 
(511,533
)
 
(5,865,163
)
 
(582,294
)
 
—
 


 Net (loss) income
 
 
(40,096,057
)
 
113,125,954
 
 
(211,958,301
)
 
(76,790,071
)
 
101,523,055
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
215,656
 
 
215,743
 
 
18,672,855
 
 
4,439,773
 
 
16,989,177
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
 
(40,311,713
)
 
112,910,211
 
 
(230,631,156
)
 
(81,229,844
)
 
84,533,878
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations per share, basic
 
 
(1.50
)
 
4.46
 
 
(8.88
)
 
(3.52
)
 
4.44
 


 Loss from discontinued operations per share, basic
 
 
(0.11
)
 
(0.02
)
 
(0.23
)
 
(0.02
)
 
—
 


 (Loss) income per share, basic
 
 
(1.61
)
 
4.44
 
 
(9.11
)
 
(3.54
)
 
4.44
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations per share, diluted
 
 
(1.50
)
 
4.41
 
 
(8.88
)
 
(3.52
)
 
4.44
 


 Loss from discontinued operations per share, diluted
 
 
(0.11
)
 
(0.02
)
 
(0.23
)
 
(0.02
)
 
—
 


 (Loss) income per share, diluted(1)
 
 
(1.61
)
 
4.39
 
 
(9.11
)
 
(3.54
)
 
4.44
 


 Dividends declared per common share(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2.10
 
 
2.46
 




43



 
Table of Contents


























 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loans and investments, net
 
$
1,302,440,660
 
$
1,414,225,388
 
$
1,700,774,288
 
$
2,181,683,619
 
$
2,592,093,930
 


 Available-for-sale securities, at fair value
 
 
4,276,368
 
 
3,298,418
 
 
488,184
 
 
529,104
 
 
15,696,743
 


 Securities held-to-maturity, net
 
 
29,942,108
 
 
—
 
 
60,562,808
 
 
58,244,348
 
 
—
 


 Real estate owned, net
 
 
128,397,612
 
 
22,839,480
 
 
8,205,510
 
 
46,478,994
 
 
46,478,994
 


 Real estate held-for-sale, net
 
 
62,084,412
 
 
41,440,000
 
 
41,440,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Total assets
 
 
1,776,714,330
 
 
1,731,207,928
 
 
2,060,774,772
 
 
2,579,236,489
 
 
2,901,493,534
 


 Repurchase agreements and credit facilities
 
 
76,105,000
 
 
990,997
 
 
321,418,830
 
 
524,363,226
 
 
841,098,267
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
1,002,615,393
 
 
1,070,852,555
 
 
1,100,515,185
 
 
1,152,289,000
 
 
1,151,009,000
 


 Junior subordinated notes to subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities
 
 
158,261,468
 
 
157,806,238
 
 
259,487,421
 
 
276,055,000
 
 
276,055,000
 


 Notes payable
 
 
85,457,708
 
 
51,457,708
 
 
56,457,708
 
 
54,800,000
 
 
—
 


 Note payable—related party
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,200,000
 
 
—
 


 Mortgage note payable—real estate owned
 
 
53,751,004
 
 
20,750,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Mortgage notes payable—held-for-sale
 
 
62,190,000
 
 
41,440,000
 
 
41,440,000
 
 
41,440,000
 
 
—
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
1,603,653,797
 
 
1,524,792,685
 
 
1,962,140,802
 
 
2,298,241,821
 
 
2,433,376,191
 


 Total Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. stockholders' equity
 
 
171,126,405
 
 
204,415,381
 
 
96,693,606
 
 
281,005,649
 
 
395,263,085
 


 Noncontrolling interest in operating partnership units
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
72,854,258
 


 Noncontrolling interest in consolidated entity
 
 
1,934,128
 
 
1,999,862
 
 
1,940,364
 
 
(10,981
)
 
—
 


 Total equity
 
 
173,060,533
 
 
206,415,243
 
 
98,633,970
 
 
280,994,668
 
 
468,117,343
 




 

























 
 
Year ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


 Other Data
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total loan originations
 
$
206,477,919
 
$
24,749,342
 
$
3,000,000
 
$
290,565,879
 
$
2,007,838,793
 


 Total bond and mortgage-backed security investments, net
 
 
36,464,627
 
 
6,603,769
 
 
12,412,500
 
 
58,062,500
 
 
—
 








(1)In
2009, the Company issued one million warrants as part of a debt restructuring which did not have a dilutive effect for the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2011 and had a dilutive effect for the year ended December 31, 2010.
(2)Our
Board of Directors elected not to pay a common stock distribution for the calendar year ended December 31, 2011.
(3)Our
Board of Directors elected not to pay a common stock distribution for the calendar year ended December 31, 2010.
(4)Our
Board of Directors elected not to pay a common stock distribution for the calendar year ended December 31, 2009.
(5)In
January 2009, we elected not to pay a common stock distribution with respect to the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and we believe the dividends
paid fully satisfy our 2008 REIT distribution requirements.
(6)On
January 25, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized and we declared a distribution to our stockholders of $0.62 per share of common stock, payable
with respect to the quarter ended December 31, 2007, to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2008. We made this distribution on February 26, 2008. 

44



 
Table of Contents
 
    ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     
        You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the sections of this report entitled "Risk
Factors", "Forward-Looking Statements", and "Selected Consolidated Financial Information of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries" and the historical consolidated financial statements of
Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries, including related notes, included elsewhere in this report.
 Overview  
        We are a Maryland corporation that was formed in June 2003 to invest in multi-family and commercial real estate-related bridge loans,
junior participating interests in first mortgages, mezzanine loans, preferred and direct equity and, in limited cases, discounted mortgage notes and other real estate-related assets, which we refer to
collectively as structured finance investments. We have also invested in mortgage-related securities. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our operating partnership and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries. 
        Our
operating performance is primarily driven by the following factors:


•Net interest income earned on our investments—Net interest
income represents the amount by which the interest income earned on our assets exceeds the interest expense incurred on our borrowings. If the yield earned on our assets decreases or the cost of
borrowings increases, this will have a negative impact on earnings. However, if the yield earned on our assets increases or the cost of borrowings decreases, this will have a positive impact on
earnings. Net interest income is also directly impacted by the size and performance of our asset portfolio. See "Current Market Conditions, Risks and Recent Trends" below for risks and trends of our
net interest income. 
•Credit quality of our assets—Effective asset and portfolio
management is essential to maximize the performance and value of a real estate/mortgage investment. Maintaining the credit quality of our loans and investments is of critical importance. Loans that do
not perform in accordance with their terms may have a negative impact on earnings and liquidity. 
•Cost control—We seek to minimize our operating costs, which
consist primarily of employee compensation and related costs, management fees and other general and administrative expenses. If there are increases in foreclosures and non-performing loans
and investments, certain of these expenses, particularly employee compensation expenses and asset management related expenses, may increase. 

        We
are organized and conduct our operations to qualify as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") and to comply with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code with respect thereto. A
REIT is generally not subject to federal income tax on that portion of its REIT—taxable income which is distributed to its stockholders provided that at least 90% of its
REIT—taxable income is
distributed and provided that certain other requirements are met. Additionally, under the terms of our junior subordinated note agreements, annual dividends are limited to 100% of taxable income to
common shareholders and are required to be paid in the form of our stock to the maximum extent permissible (currently 90%), with the balance payable in cash. We will be permitted to pay 100% of our
taxable income in cash if we pay the note holders the original rate of interest upon early termination of the agreement or at its expiration in April 2012. Certain REIT income may be subject to state
and local income taxes. Our assets or operations that would not otherwise comply with the REIT requirements, are owned or conducted by our taxable REIT subsidiaries, the income of which is subject to
federal and state income tax. Under current federal tax law, the gain and the tax on the gain of certain debt extinguishment transactions realized in 2009 and 2010 have been deferred to future periods
at our election. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded $0.9 million of estimated state income 
45



 
Table of Contents
taxes
incurred in those states that do not adopt the federal tax law that allows us to elect to defer income generated from certain debt extinguishment transactions. For the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we did not record a current provision for income taxes related to the assets that are held in taxable REIT subsidiaries. 
 Current Market Conditions, Risks and Recent Trends  
        Global stock and credit markets have experienced prolonged price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions over the past
several years, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially. Commercial real estate has been particularly adversely affected by the prolonged economic downturn. Although
we have seen some improvements, the overall market recovery remains uncertain. Should the market regress, the commercial real estate sector may experience additional losses, challenges in complying
with the terms of financing agreements, difficulty in raising capital, and challenges in obtaining investment financing with attractive terms or at all. 
        These
circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets and have resulted in the scarcity of certain types of financing, and, in certain cases, making terms for
certain financings less attractive. If these conditions persist, lending institutions may be forced to exit markets such as repurchase lending, become insolvent, further tighten their lending
standards or increase the amount of equity capital required to obtain financing, and in such event, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Our
profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. A prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek
alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our borrowers to
repay our loans as they may experience difficulties in selling
assets, increased costs of financing or obtaining financing at all. These events in the stock and credit markets may also make it more difficult or unlikely for us to raise capital through the
issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on
us or the economy in general. 
        This
environment has had a significant impact on our business, our borrowers and real estate values throughout all asset classes and geographic locations. If real estate values decline,
it may limit our new mortgage loan originations since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers
may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans. Declining real estate values may also significantly increase the likelihood that we will continue to incur losses on our loans in the
event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely
affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly impact our revenues, results of operations,
financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, our investments are also subject to the risks described above with respect to commercial
real estate loans and mortgage-backed securities and similar risks, including risks of delinquency and foreclosure, the dependence upon the successful operation of, and net income from, real property,
risks generally related to interests in real property, and risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. 
        During
fiscal year 2011, we recorded $44.8 million of new provisions for loan losses, due to declining collateral values, $6.3 million in net recoveries of reserves, and
$5.7 million of loss on sale and restructuring of loans. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded $100.9 million of new provisions for loan losses, due to declining collateral values,
$18.1 million in net recoveries of reserves, and $7.2 million of loss on sale and restructuring of loans. During fiscal year 2009, we recorded $241.3 million of new provisions for loan losses
and $57.6 million of loss on sale and restructuring of loans. In addition, we acquired two new real estate owned properties through a transfer from a creditor trust and a 
46



 
Table of Contents
purchase
out of bankruptcy, respectively, in the first quarter of 2011. We also acquired one new real estate owned property through deed in lieu of foreclosure and sold a real estate property
held-for-sale in 2010. We have made, and continue to make modifications and extensions to loans when it is economically feasible to do so. In some cases, a modification is a more viable alternative to
foreclosure proceedings when a borrower cannot comply with loan terms. In doing so, lower borrower interest rates, combined with non-performing loans, will lower our net interest margins
when comparing interest income to our costs of financing. These trends may persist with a prolonged economic downturn and we feel if they do, there will be continued modifications and delinquencies in
the foreseeable future, which may result in reduced net interest margins and additional losses throughout our sector. 
        Commercial
real estate financing companies were severely impacted by the economic downturn and until relatively recently have had very little access to the capital markets or the debt
markets in order to meet their existing obligations or to refinance maturing debt. We responded to these troubled times by decreasing investment activity for capital preservation, aggressively
managing our assets through restructuring and extending our debt facilities and repurchasing our previously issued debt at discounts when economically feasible. In order to accomplish these goals, we
have worked closely with our borrowers in restructuring our loans, receiving payoffs and paydowns and monetizing our investments as appropriate. Additionally, based on available liquidity and market
opportunities, we have from time to time repurchased our debt at discounts as well as shares of our common stock. We will continue to remain focused on executing these strategies when appropriate and
where available if this significant economic downturn persists. 
        Refer
to Item 1A "Risk Factors" above and Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" below for additional risk factors. 
 Sources of Operating Revenues  
        We derive our operating revenues primarily through interest received from making real estate-related bridge, mezzanine and junior
participation loans and preferred equity investments. Interest income earned on these loans and investments represented approximately 75%, 97% and 96% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. 
        Interest
income may also be derived from profits on equity participation interests. No such interest income was recognized in 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
        We
also derive interest income from our investments in commercial real estate collateralized debt obligation ("CDO") bond securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") and
residential mortgage-backed securities ("RMBS"). Interest on these investments represented approximately 1%, 2% and 4% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        Property
operating income is derived from our real estate owned assets. In 2011, property operating income represented approximately 24%, of our total revenue. The operation of a
portfolio of hotel properties that we own is seasonal with the majority of revenues earned in the first two quarters of the calendar year. No such income was recognized in 2010 and 2009. 
        Additionally,
we derive operating revenues from other income that represents loan structuring and defeasance fees, and miscellaneous asset management fees associated with our loans and
investments
portfolio. Revenue from other income represented approximately 1% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
 Income or Loss from Equity Affiliates and Gain or Loss on Sale of Loans and Real Estate  
        We derive income or loss from equity affiliates relating to joint ventures that were formed with equity partners to acquire, develop
and/or sell real estate assets. These joint ventures are not majority owned or controlled by us, and are not consolidated in our financial statements. These investments are 
47



 
Table of Contents
recorded
under either the equity or cost method of accounting as appropriate. We record our share of net income and losses from the underlying properties of our equity method investments and any
other-than-temporary impairment of these investments on a single line item in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as income or loss from equity affiliates. In 2011, income from equity affiliates
was $3.7 million while in 2010 and 2009, loss from equity affiliates totaled $1.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively. 
        We
also may derive income or loss from the sale of loans and real estate. We may acquire real estate by foreclosure or through partial or full settlement of mortgage debt or for
investment in order to stabilize the property and dispose of it for a future anticipated return. We may also acquire real estate notes generally at a discount from lenders in situations where the
borrower wishes to restructure and reposition its short-term debt and the lender wishes to divest certain assets from its portfolio. In 2010, we sold a real estate
held-for-sale property acquired by a foreclosure sale to a third party for net proceeds of approximately $6.8 million and recorded a gain of $1.3 million. No such
gain or loss was recorded in 2011 or 2009. 
 Significant Accounting Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies  
        Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards
Codification™, the authoritative reference for accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
requires the use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A summary of our
significant accounting policies is presented in Note 2 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof. Set forth below is a summary of the accounting
policies that management believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Certain of the accounting policies used in the preparation of these
consolidated financial statements are particularly important for an understanding of the financial position and results of operations presented in the historical consolidated financial statements
included in this report and require the application of significant judgment by management and, as a result, are subject to a degree of uncertainty. 
 Loans, Investments and Securities  
        Loans held for investment are intended to be held to maturity and, accordingly, are carried at cost, net of unamortized loan
origination costs and fees, loan purchase discounts, and net of the allowance for loan losses when such loan or investment is deemed to be impaired. We invest in preferred equity interests that, in
some cases, allow us to participate in a percentage of the underlying property's cash flows from operations and proceeds from a sale or refinancing. At the inception of each such investment,
management must determine whether such investment should be accounted for as a loan, joint venture or as real estate. To date, management has determined that all such investments are properly
accounted for and reported as loans. 
        From
time to time, we may enter into an agreement to sell a loan. These loans are considered held-for-sale and are valued at the lower of the loan's carrying amount or fair value less
costs to sell. For the sale of loans, recognition occurs when ownership passes to the buyer. 
        At
the time of purchase, we designate a security as available-for-sale, held-to-maturity, or trading depending on our ability and intent
to hold it to maturity. We do not have any securities designated as trading as of December 31, 2011. Securities available-for-sale are reported at fair value with the
net unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, while securities held-to-maturity are reported at amortized cost.
Unrealized losses that are 
48



 
Table of Contents
determined
to be other-than-temporary are recognized in earnings up to their credit component. The determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a
subjective process requiring judgments and assumptions. The process may include, but is not limited to, assessment of recent market events and prospects for near-term recovery, assessment
of cash flows, internal review of the underlying assets securing the investments, credit of the issuer and the rating of the security, as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment to
maturity. Management closely monitors market conditions on which it bases such decisions. 
        We
also assess certain of our securities, other than those of high credit quality, to determine whether significant changes in estimated cash flows or unrealized losses on these
securities, if any, reflect a decline in value which is other-than-temporary and, accordingly, should be written down to their fair value against earnings. On a quarterly basis, we review these
changes in estimated cash flows, which could occur due to actual prepayment and credit loss experience, to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred. The determination
of other-than-temporary impairment is a subjective process requiring judgments and assumptions and is not necessarily intended to indicate a permanent decline in value. We
calculate a revised yield based on the current amortized cost of the investment, including any other-than-temporary impairments recognized to date, and the revised yield is
then applied prospectively to recognize interest income. 
 Impaired Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, Loss on Sale and Restructuring of Loans and Charge-offs  
        Loans are considered impaired when, based upon current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all
amounts due for both principal and interest according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. We evaluate each loan in our portfolio on a quarterly basis. Our loans are individually specific
and unique as it relates to product type, geographic location, and collateral type, as well as to the rights and remedies and the position in the capital structure our loans and investments have in
relation to the underlying collateral. We evaluate all of this information as well as general market trends related to specific classes of assets, collateral type and geographic locations, when
determining the appropriate assumptions such as capitalization and market discount rates, as well as the borrower's operating income and cash flows, in estimating the value of the underlying
collateral when determining if a loan is impaired. We utilize internally developed valuation models and techniques primarily consisting of discounted cash flow and direct capitalization models in
determining the fair value of the underlying collateral on an individual loan. We may also obtain a third party appraisal, which may value the collateral through an "as-is" or "stabilized
value" methodology. Such appraisals may be used as an additional source of valuation information only and no adjustments are made to appraisals. Included in the evaluation of the capitalization and
market discount rates, we consider not only assumptions specific to the collateral but also geographical and industry trends that could impact the collateral's value. 
        If
upon completion of the valuation, the fair value of the underlying collateral securing the impaired loan is less than the net carrying value of the loan, an allowance is created with
a corresponding charge to the provision for loan losses. The allowance for each loan is maintained at a level that is believed to be adequate by management to absorb probable losses. We had a $185.4
million allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2011 related to 24 loans in our portfolio with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $285.0 million, before loan loss reserves.
At December 31, 2010, we had a $205.5 million allowance for loan losses related to 30 loans in our portfolio with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $530.6 million,
before loan loss reserves. 
        Loan
terms may be modified if we determine that based on the individual circumstances of a loan and the underlying collateral, a modification would more likely increase the total
recovery of the combined principal and interest from the loan. Any loan modification is predicated upon a goal of maximizing the collection of the loan. Typical triggers for a modification would
include situations where the projected cash flow is insufficient to cover required debt service, when asset performance is lagging 
49



 
Table of Contents
the
initial projections, where there is a requirement for rebalancing, where there is an impending maturity of the loan, and where there is an actual loan default. Loan terms that have been modified
have included, but are not limited to interest rate, maturity date and in certain cases, principal amount. Length and amounts of each modification have varied based on individual circumstances and are
determined on a case by case basis. If the loan modification constitutes a concession whereas we do not receive ample consideration in return for the modification, and the borrower is experiencing
financial difficulties and cannot repay the loan under the current terms, then the modification is considered by us to be a troubled debt restructuring. If we receive a benefit, either monetary or
strategic, and the above criteria are not met, the modification is not considered to be a troubled debt restructuring. 
        We
record interest on modified loans on an accrual basis to the extent that the modified loan is contractually current. To date, we have not recorded interest income on a modified loan
where we have not subsequently received the cash. 
        Loss
on restructured loans are recorded when we grant a concession to a borrower in the form of principal forgiveness related to a payoff or the substitution or addition of a new debtor
for the original borrower or when we incur costs on behalf of the borrower related to the modification, payoff or the substitution or addition of a new debtor for the original borrower. When a loan is
restructured, we record the investment at net realizable value, taking into account the cost of all concessions at the date of restructuring. The reduction in the recorded investment is recorded as a
charge to the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period in which the loan is restructured. In addition, a gain or loss may be recorded upon the sale of a loan to a third party as a charge to
the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period in which the loan was sold. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, we recorded loss on sale and restructuring of loans of $5.7 million, $7.2 million and $57.6 million, respectively. 
        Charge-offs
to the allowance for loan losses occur when losses are confirmed through the receipt of cash or other consideration from the completion of a sale; when a
modification or restructuring takes place in which we grant a concession to a borrower or agree to a discount in full or partial satisfaction of the loan; when we take ownership and control of the
underlying collateral in full satisfaction of the loan; when loans are reclassified as other investments; or when significant collection efforts have ceased and it is highly likely that a loss has
been realized. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded charge-offs to the allowance for loan losses of $58.8 million, $194.9 million and
$41.3 million, respectively. 
 Real Estate Owned and Held-For-Sale  
        Real estate owned, shown net of accumulated depreciation and impairment charges, is comprised of real property acquired by foreclosure
or through partial or full settlement of mortgage debt. The real estate acquired is recorded at the estimated fair value at the time of acquisition. 
        Costs
incurred in connection with the foreclosure of the properties collateralizing the real estate loans are expensed as incurred and costs subsequently incurred to extend the life or
improve the assets subsequent to foreclosure are capitalized. 
        We
allocate the purchase price of operating properties to land, building, tenant improvements, deferred lease cost for the origination costs of the in-place leases,
intangibles for the value of the above or below market leases at fair value and to any other identified intangible assets or liabilities. We finalize the purchase price allocation on these assets
within one year of the acquisition date. We amortize the value allocated to the in-place leases over the remaining lease term. The value allocated to the above or below market leases are
amortized over the remaining lease term as an adjustment to rental income. 
50




 







 
Table of Contents 
        Real estate assets, including assets acquired by foreclosure or through partial or full settlement of mortgage debt that are operated for the production of income
are depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. Ordinary repairs and maintenance which are not reimbursed by the tenants are expensed as incurred. Major
replacements and betterments which improve or extend the life of the asset are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful life. 
        Our
properties are individually reviewed for impairment each quarter, if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. We
recognize impairment if the undiscounted estimated cash flows to be generated by the assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets. Measurement of impairment is based upon the estimated
fair value of the assets. Upon evaluating a property for impairment, many factors are considered, including estimated current and expected operating cash flows from the property during the projected
holding period, costs necessary to extend the life or improve the asset, expected capitalization rates, projected stabilized net operating income, selling costs, and the ability to hold and dispose of
such real estate owned in the ordinary course of business. Valuation adjustments may be necessary in the event that effective interest rates, rent-up periods, future economic conditions,
and other relevant factors vary significantly from those assumed in valuing the property. If future evaluations result in a diminution in the value of the property, the reduction will be recognized as
an impairment charge at that time. 
        Real
estate is classified as held-for-sale when management commits to a plan of sale, the asset is available for immediate sale, there is an active program to
locate a buyer, and it is probable the sale will be complete within one year. Properties classified as held-for-sale are not depreciated and the results of their operations are
shown in discontinued operations. Real estate assets that are expected to be disposed of are valued, on an individual asset basis, at the lower of their carrying amount or their fair value less costs
to sell. 
        We
recognize sales of real estate properties upon closing. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits. Profit on real estate sold is recognized upon
closing using the full accrual method when the collectability of the sale price is reasonably assured and we are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale. Profit may be deferred
in whole or in part until collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured and the earnings process is complete. 
 Revenue Recognition  
        Interest income.    Interest income is recognized on the accrual basis as it is earned from loans, investments and securities. In certain
instances, the
borrower pays an additional amount of interest at the time the loan is closed, an origination fee, a prepayment fee and/or deferred interest upon maturity. In some cases, interest income may also
include the amortization or accretion of premiums and discounts arising from the purchase or origination of the loan or security. This additional income, net of any direct loan origination costs
incurred, is deferred and accreted into interest income on an effective yield or "interest" method adjusted for actual prepayment activity over the life of the related loan or security as a yield
adjustment. Income recognition is suspended for loans when, in the opinion of management a full recovery of all contractual principal is not probable. Income recognition is resumed when the loan
becomes contractually current and performance is resumed. We record interest income on certain impaired loans to the extent cash is received, in which a loan loss reserve has been recorded, as the
borrower continue to make interest payments. We recorded loan loss reserves related to these loans as it was deemed that full recovery of principal and interest was not probable. 
        Several
of our loans provide for accrual of interest at specified rates, which differ from current payment terms. Interest is recognized on such loans at the accrual rate subject to
management's determination that accrued interest and outstanding principal are ultimately collectible, based on the underlying collateral and operations of the borrower. If management cannot make this
determination, interest income above the current pay rate is recognized only upon actual receipt. We currently have no 
51



 
Table of Contents
loans
in our portfolio accruing such interest. Therefore, interest income is recorded on all of our loans and investments only to the extent that the current pay rate is received. 
        Given
the transitional nature of some of our real estate loans, we may require funds to be placed into an interest reserve, based on contractual requirements, to cover debt service
costs. We will analyze these interest reserves on a periodic basis and determine if any additional interest reserves are needed. Recognition of income on loans with funded interest reserves are
accounted for in the same manner as loans without funded interest reserves. We will not recognize any interest income on loans in which the borrower has failed to make the contractual interest payment
due or has not replenished the interest reserve account. As of December 31, 2011, we had total interest reserves of $6.8 million on 34 loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of
$524.3 million and had three non-performing loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $38.4 million with a funded interest reserve of $0.1 million. Income
from non-performing loans is generally recognized on a cash basis only to the extent it is received. Full income recognition will resume when the loan becomes contractually current and
performance has recommenced. 
        Additionally,
interest income is recorded when earned from equity participation interests, referred to as equity kickers. These equity kickers have the potential to generate additional
revenues to us as a result of excess cash flow distributions and/or as appreciated properties are sold or refinanced. We did not record interest income on such investments for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. 
        Property operating income.    Property operating income represents income associated with the operation of commercial real estate
properties classified
as real estate owned. We recognize revenue for these activities when the fees are fixed or determinable, or are evidenced by an arrangement, collection is reasonably assured and the services under the
arrangement have been provided. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded approximately $24.2 million of property operating income relating to real estate owned properties. We
did not have property operating income in 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, we had two real estate owned properties. This was due to a portfolio of multifamily assets that was purchased
by us out of bankruptcy and a portfolio of hotel assets that was transferred to us by the owner, a creditor trust. Both of these portfolios were acquired in the first quarter of 2011. Additionally,
real estate investments were reclassified from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale in 2011, 2010 and 2009, resulting in the reclassification of all of the operating
activity from these properties from property operating income and expenses into discontinued operations for all prior periods. For more details see Note 6 of the "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof. 
 Stock-Based Compensation  
        We have granted certain of our employees, directors, and employees of ACM, restricted stock awards consisting of shares of our common
stock that vest immediately or annually over a multi-year period, subject to the recipient's continued service to us. We record stock-based compensation expense at the grant date fair
value of the related stock-based award with subsequent remeasurement for any unvested shares granted to non-employees. Such amounts are expensed against earnings, at the grant date (for
the portion that vests immediately) or ratably over the respective vesting periods. Dividends are paid on the restricted shares as dividends are paid on shares of our common stock whether or not they
are vested. Stock-based compensation is disclosed in our Consolidated Statement of Operations under "employee compensation and benefits" for employees and under "selling and administrative" expense
for non-employees. 
 Income Taxes  
        We are organized and conduct our operations to qualify as a REIT and to comply with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code with
respect thereto. A REIT is generally not subject to 
52



 
Table of Contents
federal
income tax on taxable income which is distributed to its stockholders, provided that at least 90% of its taxable income is distributed and provided that certain other requirements are met.
Certain REIT income may be subject to state and local income taxes. Our assets or operations that would not otherwise comply with the REIT requirements, are owned or conducted by our taxable REIT
subsidiaries, the income of which is subject to federal and state income tax. Under current federal tax law, the income and the tax on such income attributable to certain debt extinguishment
transactions realized in 2009 and 2010 have been deferred to future periods at our election. 
        Current
accounting guidance clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements. This guidance prescribes a recognition threshold
and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This guidance also provides clarity on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and disclosure. 
 Variable Interest Entities  
        We have evaluated our loans and investments, mortgage related securities, investments in equity affiliates, junior subordinated notes
and CDOs, in order to determine if they qualify as Variable Interest Entities ("VIEs") or as variable interests in VIEs. This evaluation resulted in our determination that our bridge loans, junior
participation loans, mezzanine loans, preferred equity investments, investments in equity affiliates, junior subordinated notes, CDOs, and investments in mortgage related securities are potential
VIEs. A VIE is defined as an entity in which equity investors (i) do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, and/or (ii) do not have sufficient equity at risk
for the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties. 
        A
VIE is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which is defined as the party that (i) has the power to control the activities that most significantly impact the
VIE's economic performance and (ii) has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could
potentially be significant to the VIE. 
        We
consolidate our three CDO subsidiaries, which qualify as VIEs, of which we are the primary beneficiary. These CDOs invest in real estate and real estate-related securities and are
financed by the issuance of CDO debt securities. We, or one of our affiliates, is named collateral manager, servicer, and special servicer for all CDO collateral assets which we believes gives us the
power to direct the most significant economic activities of the entity. We also have exposure to CDO losses to the extent of our equity interests and also have rights to waterfall payments in excess
of required payments to CDO bond investors. As a result of consolidation, equity interests in these CDOs have been eliminated, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects both the assets held and debt
issued by the CDOs to third parties. Our operating results and cash flows include the gross amounts related to CDO assets and liabilities as opposed to our net economic interests in the CDO entities. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, we have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of 47 VIEs in which we have a variable interest. These VIEs had an aggregate carrying amount of
$644.2 million and exposure to real estate debt of approximately $5.7 billion at December 31, 2011. For all other investments, we have determined they are not VIEs or variable
interests in VIEs. As such, we have continued to account for these loans and investments as a loan or joint venture, as appropriate. A summary of our identified VIEs or variable interests in VIEs is
presented in Note 9 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof. 
53



 
Table of Contents
 Derivatives and Hedging Activities  
        The carrying values of interest rate swaps and the underlying hedged liabilities are reflected at their fair value. Changes in the fair
value of these derivatives are either offset against the change in the fair value of the hedged liability through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is
recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings. Derivatives that do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment
are adjusted to fair value through earnings. 
        We
record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. Additionally, the accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use of the derivative,
whether a company has elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the criteria necessary to apply hedge
accounting. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as interest
rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions,
are considered cash flow hedges. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the
fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk in a fair value hedge or the earnings effect of the hedged forecasted transactions in a cash flow hedge. We may
enter into derivative contracts that are intended to economically hedge certain of our risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or we elect not to apply hedge accounting. 
        During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we entered into a LIBOR Cap with a notional value of approximately $73.3 million that was designated as a cash flow hedge and a
LIBOR Cap with a notional value of approximately $6.0 million that was not designated as a cash flow hedge. In addition, the notional value on four basis swaps decreased by approximately
$202.8 million pursuant to the contractual terms of the respective swap agreements, the notional value on two interest rate swaps decreased by approximately $14.2 million pursuant to the
contractual terms of the respective swap agreements, and six interest rate swaps matured with a combined notional value of approximately $111.3 million. During the year ended
December 31, 2010, we entered into two new interest rate swaps that qualify as cash flow hedges with a combined notional value of approximately $7.5 million and one LIBOR Cap with a
notional value of approximately $7.0 million that does not qualify as a cash flow hedge. In addition, the notional values on one basis swap decreased by approximately $4.9 million
pursuant to the contractual terms of the respective swap agreement, the notional value on two interest rate swaps decreased by approximately $43.2 million pursuant to the contractual terms of
the respective swap agreements, and six interest rate swaps matured with a combined notional value of approximately $34.9 million. We also recorded a loss of $8.7 million on the
termination of the interest rate swaps related to the restructured trust preferred securities directly to loss on terminated swaps in the second quarter of 2009 as the interest rate swaps were
determined to no longer be effective or necessary due to the modified interest payment structure of the newly issued unsecured junior subordinated notes. Refer to the section titled "Liquidity and
Capital Resources—Junior Subordinated Notes" below. Gains and losses on termination swaps are deferred and recognized in interest expense over the original life of the hedged item. The
fair value of our qualifying hedge portfolio has increased by
approximately $4.9 million from December 31, 2010 as a result of the maturities and amortized notional values of swaps, combined with a change in the projected LIBOR rates and credit
spreads of both parties. 
        Because
the valuations of our hedging activities are based on estimates, the fair value may change if our estimates are inaccurate. For the effect of hypothetical changes in market
interest rates on our interest rate swaps, see "Interest Rate Risk" in "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk", set forth in Item 7A hereof. 
54



 
Table of Contents
 Fair Value Measurements  
        Fair value is defined as the price at which an asset could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, willing
parties. A liability's fair value is defined as the amount that would be paid to transfer the liability to a new obligor, not the amount that would be paid to settle the liability with the creditor.
Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are
applied. These valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the
instruments' complexity. 
        Assets
and liabilities disclosed at fair value are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value. Hierarchical levels directly
related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs to fair valuation of these assets and liabilities, are as follows:


•Level 1—Inputs are unadjusted and quoted prices exist in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities at the measurement date. The types of assets and liabilities carried at Level 1 fair value generally are government and agency securities, equities listed in active markets,
investments in publicly traded mutual funds with quoted market prices and listed derivatives. 
•Level 2—Inputs (other than quoted prices included in Level 1) are either directly or indirectly
observable for the asset or liability through correlation with market data at the measurement date and for the duration of the instrument's anticipated life. Level 2 inputs include quoted
market prices in markets that are not active for an identical or similar asset or liability, and quoted market prices in active markets for a similar asset or liability. Fair valued assets and
liabilities that are generally included in this category are non-government securities, municipal bonds, certain hybrid financial instruments, certain mortgage and asset-backed securities,
certain corporate debt, certain commitments and guarantees, certain private equity investments and certain derivatives. 
•Level 3—Inputs reflect management's best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing the
asset or liability at the measurement date. These valuations are based on significant unobservable inputs that require a considerable amount of judgment and assumptions. Consideration is given to the
risk inherent in the valuation technique and the risk inherent in the inputs to the model. Generally, assets and liabilities carried at fair value and included in this category are certain mortgage
and asset-backed securities, certain corporate debt, certain private equity investments, certain municipal bonds, certain commitments and guarantees and certain derivatives. 

        Determining
which category an asset or liability falls within the hierarchy requires significant judgment and we evaluate our hierarchy disclosures each quarter. 
        At
December 31, 2011, we measured certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, including available-for-sale securities and derivative
financial instruments. The fair values of our available-for-sale securities are approximated based on current market quotes received from financial sources that trade such
securities. The fair values of certain CDO and CMBS securities are estimated by us using Level 3 inputs that require significant judgments, which include assumptions regarding capitalization
rates, leasing, creditworthiness of major tenants, occupancy rates, availability of financing, exit plan, loan sponsorship, actions of other lenders and other factors deemed necessary by management.
In addition, fair values of our derivative financial instruments are approximated based on current market data received from financial sources that trade such instruments and are based on prevailing
market data and derived from third party proprietary models based on well recognized financial principles and reasonable estimates about relevant future market conditions. These items are 
55



 
Table of Contents
included
in other assets and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We incorporate credit valuation adjustments in the fair values of our derivative financial instruments to reflect
counterparty nonperformance risk. 
        At
December 31, 2011, we measured certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including loans and real estate
held-for-sale investments. Loans held for investment are intended to be held to maturity and, accordingly, are carried at cost, net of unamortized loan origination costs and
fees, loan purchase discounts, and net of the allowance for loan losses when such loan or investment is deemed to be impaired. We consider a loan impaired when, based upon current information and
events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due for both principal and interest according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. We perform evaluations of our loans
to determine if the fair value of the underlying collateral securing the impaired loan is less than the net carrying value of the loan, which may result in an allowance and corresponding charge to the
provision for loan losses. These valuations require significant judgments, which include assumptions regarding capitalization rates, leasing, creditworthiness of major tenants, occupancy rates,
availability of financing, exit plan, loan sponsorship, actions of other lenders and other factors deemed necessary by management. In addition, real estate investments
held-for-sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. Measurement of fair value requires significant judgments, which include assumptions regarding
cash flows, capitalization rates, occupancy rates, availability of financing, exit plan, and other factors deemed necessary by management as well as discussions with active market participants. 
 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
        In December 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on disclosure about offsetting assets and liabilities which amends U.S. GAAP
to conform more to the disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"). This guidance is effective as of the first quarter of 2013 and we are currently evaluating the
impact it may have on our financial disclosure. 
        In
June 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on comprehensive income which amends U.S. GAAP to conform to IFRS disclosure requirements. The amendment eliminates the option to
present components of other comprehensive income as part of the Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity and requires a separate Statement of Comprehensive Income or two consecutive statements in
the Statement of Operations and in a separate Statement of Comprehensive Income. The guidance also requires the presentation of reclassification adjustments for each component of other comprehensive
income on the face of the financial statements rather than in the notes to the financial statements. This guidance is effective as of the first quarter of 2012, except for the disclosure of
reclassification adjustments which was postponed for re-deliberation by the FASB, and early adoption is permitted. We early adopted the guidance, with exception to the disclosure of
reclassification adjustments postponed for re-deliberation by the FASB. As the guidance only amends existing disclosure requirements, its adoption did not have a material effect on our
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
May 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on fair value measurement which amends U.S. GAAP to conform to IFRS measurement and disclosure requirements. The amendments change
the wording
used to describe the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value, changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances disclosure requirements. This guidance is effective as of
the first quarter of 2012, applied prospectively, and its adoption is not expected to have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
April 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on the transfer of financial assets which primarily removes certain criteria from the consideration of effective control over assets
subject to repurchase agreements when determining the recognition of a sale. The removal of these criteria will 
56



 
Table of Contents
generally
result in the assets transferred pursuant to the repurchase agreement being accounted for as a secured borrowing, with both the transferred asset and repurchase liability recorded on the
transferor's balance sheet. This guidance is effective as of the first quarter of 2012, applied prospectively to transactions which occur subsequent to the effective date, and its adoption is not
expected to have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
April 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on a creditor's determination of whether a restructuring will be a troubled debt restructuring, which establishes new guidelines in
evaluating whether a loan modification meets the criteria of a troubled debt restructuring. This guidance was effective as of the third quarter of 2011, applied retrospectively to the beginning of the
fiscal year as required, and its adoption did not have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
December 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance on business combinations, which clarifies that when pro forma financial information is required, it is to be presented as if the
business combination occurred at the beginning of the prior year. The guidance also requires a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly
attributable to the business combination. The guidance was effective for business combinations in fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010 and its adoption on January 1, 2011
did not have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
July 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance on disclosures about the credit quality of financing receivables and the allowance for credit losses which requires a greater level of
information disclosed about the credit quality of loans and allowance for loan losses, as well as additional information related to credit quality indicators, past due information, and information
related to loans modified in a troubled debt restructuring. This guidance was effective as of the fourth quarter of 2010, except for the information related to loans modified in a troubled debt
restructuring which was effective as of the third quarter of 2011. As the guidance only amends existing disclosure requirements, its adoption resulted in additional disclosures and did not have a
material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
January 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance on fair value measurements and disclosures, which requires disclosure of details of significant asset or liability transfers in and out
of Level 1 and Level 2 measurements within the fair value hierarchy and inclusion of gross purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the rollforward of assets and liabilities
valued using Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy. The guidance also clarifies and expands existing disclosure requirements related to the disaggregation of fair value disclosures and
inputs used in arriving at fair values for assets and liabilities using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy. This guidance was effective for interim and annual
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, and its adoption did not have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The gross presentation of the Level 3
rollforward was required for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010 and its adoption on January 1, 2011 did not have a material effect on our Consolidated
Financial Statements. 
 Changes in Financial Condition  
        Our loan and investment portfolio balance, including our available-for-sale and
held-to-maturity securities, at December 31, 2011 was $1.5 billion, with a weighted average current interest pay rate of 4.59% compared to $1.6 billion,
with a weighted average current interest pay rate of 4.44% at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, advances on our financing facilities totaled $1.3 billion, with a weighted
average funding cost of 3.20% as compared to $1.3 billion, with a weighted average funding cost of 3.55% at December 31, 2010. 
        In
2011, we originated 30 loans totaling $206.5 million that had an aggregate weighted average rate of interest of 7.41%, as well as purchased seven residential mortgage-backed
security ("RMBS") 
57



 
Table of Contents
investments
totaling $35.7 million that had an aggregate weighted average rate of interest of 6.28% and one commercial mortgage-backed security ("CMBS") investment for $0.7 million that
had a rate of interest of 2.95%. We received full satisfaction of 14 loans totaling $132.8 million that had an aggregate weighted average rate of interest of 4.50% and received partial
repayment on nine loans totaling $56.8 million. We also refinanced and/or modified 12 loans totaling $228.6 million which decreased the aggregate weighted average rate of interest on the
modified loans from 6.56% to 5.46%, and 26 loans totaling approximately $351.5 million were extended during the year, $119.2 million of which were in accordance with an extension option
of the corresponding loan agreement. We also sold a $30.0 million portion of a $67.0 million loan to a third party for $25.3 million. 
        Since
December 31, 2011, we have originated seven new loans for a total of $39.4 million as well as purchased four new RMBS investments for a total of $20.2 million
which were financed with $16.4 million of debt. We have also received $23.0 million for the repayment in full of three loans. 
        Cash
and cash equivalents decreased $45.9 million, or 45%, to $55.2 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $101.1 million at December 31, 2010. All
highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents. The decrease was primarily due to funding new loan originations, paying related party
payables, purchasing of our own CDO bonds and purchasing our stock in a stock repurchase plan which started in the second quarter of 2011 and was completed in the fourth quarter of 2011. This was
partially offset by loan payoffs and paydowns as well as proceeds from new financing facilities, loan participations, and the sale of a portion of a loan in 2011. 
        Restricted
cash increased $46.2 million to $67.3 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $21.1 million at December 31, 2010. Restricted cash is kept
on deposit with the trustees for our CDOs, and primarily represents proceeds from loan repayments which will be used to purchase replacement loans as collateral for the CDO that has not reached its
replenishment date and principal repayments for the CDOs that have reached their replenishment dates, as well as the sale of investment securities owned by the CDOs, unfunded loan commitments, and
interest payments received from loans. The increase was primarily due to loan payoffs and partial paydowns, net of originations and the transfer of loans into the CDOs. Our real estate owned assets
acquired in 2011 also have restricted cash balances totaling $2.0 million as of December 31, 2011 due to escrow requirements. 
        Securities
held-to-maturity increased to $29.9 million at December 31, 2011 as a result of purchasing seven RMBS investments in 2011, net of
paydowns received during the year ended December 31, 2011. See Note 4 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof for a further description
of these transactions. 
        Investment
in equity affiliates decreased by $5.4 million, or 8%, to $60.5 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $65.8 million at December 31, 2010
primarily due to the sale of a $5.7 million interest in a joint venture property and $0.3 million of losses from another of our equity affiliates recorded against the investment, net of
the investment in two new equity affiliates for a total of $0.8 million in 2011. See Note 5 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof for
a further description of these transactions. 
        Real
estate owned increased $105.6 million to $128.4 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $22.8 million at December 31, 2010. This was primarily
due to a portfolio of hotel assets that was transferred to us by the owner, a creditor trust, and a portfolio of multifamily assets that was purchased by us out of bankruptcy in the first quarter of
2011. See Note 6 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof for a further description of these transactions. 
        Real
estate held-for-sale increased $20.6 million, or 50% to $62.1 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $41.4 million at
December 31, 2010. In the third and fourth quarters of 2011, we entered into negotiations to sell two of our real estate owned investments to third parties. As a result, these 
58



 
Table of Contents
investments
were reclassified from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale at a value of $1.9 million, which was reduced to $1.2 million in the fourth
quarter of 2011, and $19.4 million, respectively, and property operating income and expenses as well as impairment loss for current and prior periods were reclassified to discontinued
operations. See Note 6 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof for a further description of these transactions. 
        Other
assets increased $4.9 million, or 12%, to $46.9 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $42.0 million at December 31, 2010. The increase was
primarily due to receiving $1.9 million of land and $1.2 million of funds held in escrow as partial payment of a loan, a $1.8 million increase in other assets held by our real
estate owned investments, a $1.7 million net increase in various other receivables and prepaid expenses and a $0.7 million increase in cash collateral posted against our interest rate
swaps, net of a $2.4 million decrease in deferred financing fees, which includes amortization. See Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for further
information relating to our derivatives. 
        Repurchase
agreements and credit facilities increased $75.1 million to $76.1 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $1.0 million at December 31, 2010
primarily due to the use of a warehousing facility beginning in the third quarter of 2011 with a balance of $50.0 million at December 31, 2011 as well as financing the purchase of seven
RMBS investments classified as securities held-to-maturity with a repurchase agreement beginning in the third quarter of 2011 which had a balance of $26.1 million at
December 31, 2011. See "Sources of Liquidity—Repurchase Agreements and Credit Facilities" below. 
        Collateralized
debt obligations decreased $68.2 million, or 6%, to approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to approximately $1.1 billion at
December 31, 2010 primarily due to $54.2 million of payments to investors due to runoff and amortization, as well as repurchases of Class B, C, D, E and F CDO bonds with a face
value of $21.3 million, partially offset by a $7.8 million increase in the revolving note facility of one of our CDOs. See "Sources of Liquidity—CDOs" below. 
        Notes
payable increased $34.0 million, or 66%, to $85.5 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $51.5 million at December 31, 2010 due to entering
into a non-recourse junior loan
participation of $32.0 million on a $50.0 million mezzanine loan as well as a non-recourse junior loan participation of $2.0 million on an $11.8 million
mezzanine loan in the second quarter of 2011. See "Sources of Liquidity—Notes Payable" below. 
        Mortgage
notes payable—real estate owned increased $33.0 million to $53.8 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $20.8 million at
December 31, 2010 due to our assumption of a $55.4 million interest-only first lien mortgage in connection with the acquisition of real property pursuant to the bankruptcy
proceedings of a portfolio of multifamily assets in the first quarter of 2011. In the second quarter of 2011, one of the properties in the portfolio was sold to a third party for $1.6 million
and the proceeds were used to pay down the first lien mortgage to a balance of $53.8 million at December 31, 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we entered into negotiations to sell a
real estate owned investment to a third party. As a result, the investment was reclassified from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale and its
interest-only first lien mortgage for $20.8 million was also reclassified from mortgage notes payable—real estate owned to mortgage notes
payable—held-for-sale. See "Sources of Liquidity—Mortgage Notes Payable—Real Estate Owned" below for further details. 
        Mortgage
notes payable—held-for-sale increased $20.8 million, or 50%, to $62.2 million at December 31, 2011 compared to
$41.4 million at December 31, 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we entered into negotiations to sell a real estate owned investment to a third party. As a result, the investment was
reclassified from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale and its interest-only first lien mortgage for $20.8 million was also reclassified from
mortgage notes payable—real estate owned to 
59



 
Table of Contents
mortgage
notes payable—held-for-sale. See "Sources of Liquidity—Mortgage Notes Payable—Held-For-Sale" below for
further details. 
        Due
to related party decreased $14.7 million, or 84%, to $2.7 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $17.4 million at December 31, 2010. The decrease
was due to our payment in 2011 of the incentive management fee for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2010 of $18.8 million, net of a $3.6 million related party
receivable, and 2010 base management fees of $2.3 million due to ACM, net of $2.7 million of base management fees due to ACM at December 31, 2011. See "Contractual
Commitments—Management Agreement" below for further details. 
        Other
liabilities decreased $1.8 million, or 2%, to $82.6 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $84.4 million at December 31, 2010. The decrease was
primarily due to a $5.7 million reversal of unearned revenue due to the sale of an interest in a joint venture property, a $4.8 million decrease in accrued interest payable, use of
$4.1 million of deposits on the transfer of a loan to real estate owned, and payment of a $1.1 million payable to a lender as a result of a loan modification in 2010, net of a
$7.3 million increase in accrued expenses, $5.1 million of effective yield amortization on our junior subordinated notes, and a $1.5 million increase in various other deposits and
deferred fees. 
        On
December 12, 2011, we issued an aggregate of 250,000 shares of restricted common stock under the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in 2009 (the "Plan") to
certain of our and ACM employees. The 250,000 common shares underlying the restricted stock awards granted were fully vested as of the date of grant and we recorded approximately $0.4 million
to employee compensation and benefits and approximately $0.5 million to selling and administrative expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31,
2011. On July 22, 2011, we issued an aggregate of 105,000 shares of restricted common stock under the Plan to the non-management members of the Board of Directors. The 105,000
common shares underlying the restricted stock awards granted were fully vested as of the date of grant and we recorded approximately $0.5 million to selling and administrative expense in our
Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
        In
June 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan that enabled us to buy up to 1.5 million shares of our common stock. At management's discretion, shares
could be acquired from time to time on the open market, through privately negotiated transactions or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. A Rule 10b5-1 plan permits us
to repurchase shares at times when we might otherwise be prevented from doing so. As of December 31, 2011, we repurchased all of the 1.5 million shares of our common stock under this
stock repurchase plan at a total cost of $5.7 million and an average cost of $3.83 per share. In December 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan that enables us to buy
up to 0.5 million shares of our common stock beginning January 3, 2012. At management's discretion, shares may be acquired from time to time on the open market, through privately
negotiated transactions or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that will be repurchased by us, the program may be terminated at
any time, and will expire on July 3, 2012. As of March 1, 2012, we repurchased 170,170 shares of our common stock under this stock repurchase plan at a total cost of $0.7 million
and an average cost of $4.02 per share. 
        We
issued 666,927 shares of common stock in the first quarter of 2011 to ACM for the portion of the incentive management fee for the twelve month period ending December 31, 2010
that was paid in common stock. 
60



 
Table of Contents
 Comparison of Results of Operations for Year Ended 2011 and 2010  
        The following table sets forth our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010: 






















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 
Increase/(Decrease) 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
Amount 
 
Percent 
 


 Interest income
 
$
73,867,556
 
$
95,487,325
 
$
(21,619,769
)
 
(23
)%


 Interest expense
 
 
51,651,933
 
 
62,979,036
 
 
(11,327,103
)
 
(18
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net interest income
 
 
22,215,623
 
 
32,508,289
 
 
(10,292,666
)
 
(32
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other revenue:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property operating income
 
 
24,168,370
 
 
—
 
 
24,168,370
 
 
nm
 


 Other income
 
 
188,485
 
 
1,069,454
 
 
(880,969
)
 
(82
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other revenue
 
 
24,356,855
 
 
1,069,454
 
 
23,287,401
 
 
nm
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Employee compensation and benefits
 
 
11,195,663
 
 
8,059,364
 
 
3,136,299
 
 
39
%


 Selling and administrative
 
 
7,325,801
 
 
6,996,190
 
 
329,611
 
 
5
%


 Property operating expenses
 
 
22,131,787
 
 
—
 
 
22,131,787
 
 
nm
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
5,189,357
 
 
—
 
 
5,189,357
 
 
nm
 


 Other-than-temporary impairment
 
 
—
 
 
7,004,800
 
 
(7,004,800
)
 
(100
)%


 Provision for loan losses (net of recoveries)
 
 
38,542,888
 
 
82,811,753
 
 
(44,268,865
)
 
(53
)%


 Loss on sale and restructuring of loans
 
 
5,710,000
 
 
7,214,481
 
 
(1,504,481
)
 
(21
)%


 Management fee—related party
 
 
8,300,000
 
 
26,365,448
 
 
(18,065,448
)
 
(69
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other expenses
 
 
98,395,496
 
 
138,452,036
 
 
(40,056,540
)
 
(29
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from continuing operations before gain on extinguishment of debt, loss on sale of securities, net, income (loss) from equity affiliates and
provision for income taxes
 
 
(51,823,018
)
 
(104,874,293
)
 
53,051,275
 
 
(51
)%


 Gain on extinguishment of debt
 
 
10,878,218
 
 
229,321,130
 
 
(218,442,912
)
 
(95
)%


 Loss on sale of securities, net
 
 
—
 
 
(6,989,583
)
 
6,989,583
 
 
(100
)%


 Income (loss) from equity affiliates
 
 
3,671,386
 
 
(1,259,767
)
 
4,931,153
 
 
nm
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income before provision for income taxes
 
 
(37,273,414
)
 
116,197,487
 
 
(153,470,901
)
 
nm
 


 Provision for income taxes
 
 
—
 
 
(2,560,000
)
 
2,560,000
 
 
(100
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations
 
 
(37,273,414
)
 
113,637,487
 
 
(150,910,901
)
 
nm
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss on impairment of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
(1,450,000
)
 
—
 
 
(1,450,000
)
 
nm
 


 Gain on sale of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
—
 
 
1,331,436
 
 
(1,331,436
)
 
(100
)%


 Loss on operations of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
(1,372,643
)
 
(1,842,969
)
 
470,326
 
 
(26
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(2,822,643
)
 
(511,533
)
 
(2,311,110
)
 
nm
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
 
(40,096,057
)
 
113,125,954
 
 
(153,222,011
)
 
nm
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
215,656
 
 
215,743
 
 
(87
)
 
nm
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(40,311,713
)
$
112,910,211
 
$
(153,221,924
)
 
nm
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





nm—not
meaningful 

61



 
Table of Contents
 Net Interest Income  
        Interest income decreased $21.6 million, or 23%, to $73.9 million in 2011 from $95.5 million in 2010. This
decrease was primarily due to a 16% decrease in average loans and investments from $1.9 billion for 2010 to $1.6 billion for 2011 due to payoffs, paydowns, modifications and the
reclassification of loans to real estate owned, as well as an 8% decrease in the average yield on assets from 4.98% in 2010 to 4.60% in 2011. This decrease in yield was the result of the suspension of
interest on our non-performing loans and lower rates on refinanced and modified loans, along with a decrease in average LIBOR over the same period, partially offset by the reversal of
$1.2 million of accrued exit fees in the first quarter of 2010. Interest income from cash equivalents
decreased $0.1 million to $0.7 million in 2011 compared to $0.8 million in 2010 as a result of a decrease in interest rates from 2010 to 2011, net of an increase in average cash
balances. 
        Interest
expense decreased $11.3 million, or 18%, to $51.7 million in 2011 from $63.0 million in 2010. The decrease was primarily due to a 13% decrease in the
average balance of our debt facilities from $1.5 billion for 2010 to $1.3 billion for 2011. The decrease in the average balance was primarily due to the closing on a discounted payoff
agreement with Wachovia Bank in the second quarter of 2010 as well as the repayment of certain debt resulting from loan payoffs and paydowns and the transfer of assets into our CDO vehicles. The
decrease in interest expense was also due to a 6% decrease in the average cost of these borrowings from 4.22% for 2010 to 3.97% for 2011 due to closing on the discounted payoff agreement with Wachovia
Bank on June 30, 2010, which carried a higher rate of interest than our other debt financing. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Notes Payable" below for further details. The
decrease was also net of recording a $3.2 million non-cash charge in the second quarter of 2011 related to the amortization of a discount on a loan that was participated out to a
subordinate lender. 
 Other Revenue  
        Property operating income was $24.2 million in 2011. This was due to the operations of two real estate investments recorded as
real estate owned as of December 31, 2011. There was no such income in 2010. 
        Other
income decreased $0.9 million, or 82%, to $0.2 million in 2011 from $1.1 million in 2010. This is primarily due to fees received in 2010 related to a loan that
was classified as held-for-sale and was sold during the second quarter of 2010. 
 Other Expenses  
        Employee compensation and benefits expense increased $3.1 million, or 39%, to $11.2 million in 2011 from
$8.1 million in 2010. These expenses represent salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation for those employed by us during these periods. The increase was primarily
due to an increase in compensation expense as a result of the restructuring of certain of our loans and investments as well as stock-based compensation for certain of our employees in 2011. 
        Selling
and administrative expense increased $0.3 million, or 5%, to $7.3 million in 2011 from $7.0 million in 2010. These costs include, but are not limited to,
professional and consulting fees, marketing costs, insurance expense, travel and placement fees, director's fees, licensing fees, and stock-based compensation relating to our directors and certain
employees of our manager. This increase was primarily due to grants of fully vested restricted stock awards to certain employees of our manager in the fourth quarter of 2011 and to our
non-management directors in the third quarter of 2011, as compared to grants of fully vested restricted stock awards to our independent directors in the second quarter of 2010, net of a
decrease in professional fees in 2011. 
62



 
Table of Contents
        Property
operating expenses were $22.1 million in 2011. This was due to the operations of two real estate investments recorded as real estate owned as of December 31, 2011.
There were no such expenses in 2010. 
        Depreciation
and amortization expense was $5.2 million in 2011. This was due to depreciation expense associated with two real estate investments recorded as real estate owned as
of December 31, 2011. There was no such expense in 2010. 
        Other-than-temporary
impairment charges of $7.0 million that were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2010 represent the recognition of
additional impairments to the fair market value of our available-for-sale securities that were considered other-than-temporarily impaired. GAAP
accounting guidance requires that investments are evaluated periodically to determine whether a decline in their value is other-than-temporary, though it is not intended to
indicate a permanent decline in value. There were no other-than-temporary impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2011. See Note 4 of the "Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof for further details. 
        Provision
for loan losses (net of recoveries) totaled $38.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and $82.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we performed an evaluation of our loan portfolio and determined that the fair value of the underlying collateral securing 11 impaired loans with
an aggregate carrying value of $109.5 million was less than the net carrying value of the loans, resulting in us recording an additional $44.8 million provision for loan losses. We also
recorded net recoveries of $6.3 million related to 12 loans in our portfolio in 2011, which were recorded in provision for loan losses on the Consolidated Statement of Operations netting the
provision to $38.5 million. At December 31, 2011 we had an allowance for loan losses of $185.4 million relating to 24 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss
reserves, of approximately $285.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we performed an evaluation of our loan portfolio and determined that the fair value of the underlying
collateral securing 27 impaired loans with an aggregate carrying value of $455.4 million was less than the net carrying value of the
loans, resulting in us recording an additional $100.9 million provision for loan losses. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we received $15.2 million in cash recoveries
related to three loans which were previously fully reserved, as well as $2.9 million of recoveries related to two loans in which the underlying properties were sold and we provided financing to
the new operators. These recoveries were recorded in provision for loan losses on the Consolidated Statement of Operations netting the provision to $82.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, we had an allowance for loan losses of $205.5 million relating to 30 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of
approximately $530.6 million. 
        Loss
on sale and restructuring of loans decreased $1.5 million, or 21%, to $5.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $7.2 million for the year
ended December 31, 2010. The loss of $5.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 represents $4.7 million from the sale of a $30.0 million portion of a
$67.0 million loan to a third party for $25.3 million, as well as $1.0 million from the execution of a forbearance agreement in the first quarter of 2011 for a loan modified in
the second quarter of 2011. The loss of $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 represents $3.8 million for the write-down of four bridge loans, which
includes $1.1 million of transaction costs incurred in modifying a loan and having it transferred to a new borrower, and $3.4 million for the settlement of six loans and investments. 
        Management
fees decreased $18.1 million, or 69%, to $8.3 million in 2011 from $26.4 million in 2010 primarily due to an incentive management fee of
$18.8 million incurred for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2010 as compared to no incentive management fee earned in 2011. As more fully described in "Liquidity and Capital
Resources—Notes Payable" below, on June 30, 2010, we closed on the discounted payoff agreement with Wachovia and retired all of our debt with Wachovia at 
63



 
Table of Contents
the
discount described. The gain recognized as a result of the completion of the retirement of the Wachovia debt was a significant contributor to an incentive fee for our manager in 2010. Management
fees represent compensation in the form of base management fees, on a cost reimbursement basis, and incentive management fees as provided for in the management agreement with our manager. Our base
management fees amounted to $8.3 million and $7.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The management agreement also provides for "success-based"
payments to be paid to our manager upon the completion of specified corporate objectives in addition to the standard base management fee. No success-based management fees were earned for the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Refer to "Contractual Commitments—Management Agreement" below for further details including information related to our amended management agreement
with ACM. 
        Gain
on extinguishment of debt decreased $218.4 million, or 95%, to $10.9 million in 2011 from $229.3 million in 2010. During the year ended December 31,
2011, we purchased, at a discount, approximately $21.3 million of investment grade rated Class B, C, D, E and F notes originally issued by
our three CDO issuing entities from third party investors and recorded a net gain on early extinguishment of debt of $10.9 million related to these transactions. On June 30, 2010 we
closed on a discounted payoff agreement with Wachovia and in doing so, recorded a $158.4 million gain to our Consolidated Statement of Operations, net of $0.4 million of warrant expense
and $0.6 million of other various expenses and commissions. Estimated state income taxes were approximately $0.9 million and were recorded in provision for income taxes resulting in a
net gain of approximately $157.5 million. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Notes Payable" below for further details. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we also
purchased, at a discount, approximately $67.7 million of investment grade rated Class A2, B, C, D, E, F and G notes originally issued by our three CDO issuing entities for a price of
$22.8 million and recorded a net gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $44.8 million related to these transactions. We also recorded a $26.3 million gain on the partial
settlement of our junior subordinated notes in February 2010. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Junior Subordinated Notes" below for further details. 
        Loss
on sale of securities, net was $7.0 million in 2010 as a result of selling three investment grade CDO bonds, with an aggregate face value of $44.7 million and an
amortized cost of $40.4 million, for $29.9 million, resulting in a realized loss of $10.5 million, and four CMBS investments, with an aggregate face value of $21.5 million
and an amortized cost of $17.4 million, for $20.9 million, resulting in a realized gain of $3.5 million. See Note 4 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements"
set forth in Item 8 hereof for a further description of these transactions. There were no gains or losses on sale of securities in 2011. 
        Income
from equity affiliates was $3.7 million in 2011 and loss from equity affiliates was $1.3 million in 2010. Income from equity affiliates in 2011 includes a
$3.9 million gain recognized on the sale of an interest in a property held by one of our equity affiliates, net of $0.3 million of losses from another of our equity affiliates recorded
against the investment. Loss from equity affiliates in 2010 includes a $1.1 million impairment charge on an investment in an equity affiliate related to an office building that was considered
other-than-temporarily impaired. GAAP accounting guidance requires that investments are evaluated periodically to determine whether a decline in their value is
other-than-temporary, though it is not intended to indicate a permanent decline in value. Income and loss from equity affiliates also reflects a portion of the income and
losses from our other equity affiliates. See Note 5 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof for further details. 
 Provision for Income Taxes  
        We are organized and conduct our operations to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, we are generally not
subject to federal income tax on our REIT—taxable income that we distribute to our stockholders, provided that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT—taxable 
64



 
Table of Contents
income
and meet certain other requirements. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we were in compliance with all REIT requirements and, therefore, have not recorded a provision for income taxes on
our REIT—taxable income for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 with the exception of $0.9 million of estimated state taxes for the year ended December 31, 2010
incurred in those states that do not adopt the federal tax law that allows us to elect to defer income generated from certain debt extinguishment transactions, as well as recording a deferred tax
provision of $1.7 million. While the gain on the Wachovia transaction results in taxable income, under current federal tax law, the gain and the tax on the gain have been deferred to future
periods at our election. See Note 18 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof for further details. 
        Certain
of our assets that produce non-qualifying income are owned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries, the income of which is subject to federal and state income taxes. During
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we did not record any provision for income taxes from these taxable REIT subsidiaries. 
 Loss from Discontinued Operations  
        During the fourth quarter of 2011, we entered into negotiations to sell one of our real estate owned investments to a third party at
which time it was determined that the property met the held-for-sale requirements pursuant to the accounting guidance. As a result, this investment was reclassified from real
estate owned to real estate held-for-sale at a value of $19.4 million and property operating income and expenses, which netted to a loss of $0.7 million and
$0.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were reclassified to discontinued operations. During the third quarter of 2011, we entered into negotiations to
sell another of our real estate owned investments to a third party at which time it was determined that the property met the held-for-sale requirements pursuant to the
accounting guidance. As a result, this investment was reclassified from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale at a value of $1.9 million, which was reduced to
$1.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, and property operating income and expenses, which netted to a loss of $0.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, were reclassified to discontinued operations. Impairment loss on real estate held-for-sale of $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011
resulted from our determination of impairment based on the analysis of one of our real estate owned investments in the second and fourth quarters of 2011. No such impairment loss was recorded for the
year ended December 31, 2010. During the third quarter of 2010, we agreed to sell one of our real estate owned investments to a third party. As a result, this investment was reclassified from
real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale at a fair value of $5.5 million and property operating income and expenses, which netted to a loss of $0.3 million
for the year ended December 31, 2010, were reclassified to discontinued operations. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we sold the property and recorded a gain of $1.3 million. 
 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest  
        Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest totaled $0.2 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing the portion
of income allocated to a third party's interest in a consolidated subsidiary, which holds an investment in operating partnership units that are accruing interest and dividend income, as well as a note
payable that is accruing interest expense. See Note 8 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof. 
65




 







 
Table of Contents 
 Comparison of Results of Operations for Year Ended 2010 and 2009  
        The following table sets forth our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: 






















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 
Increase/(Decrease) 
 


 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
Amount 
 
Percent 
 


 Interest income
 
$
95,487,325
 
$
117,262,129
 
$
(21,774,804
)
 
(19
)%


 Interest expense
 
 
62,979,036
 
 
80,102,075
 
 
(17,123,039
)
 
(21
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net interest income
 
 
32,508,289
 
 
37,160,054
 
 
(4,651,765
)
 
(13
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other revenue:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other income
 
 
1,069,454
 
 
809,808
 
 
259,646
 
 
32
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Employee compensation and benefits
 
 
8,059,364
 
 
10,154,276
 
 
(2,094,912
)
 
(21
)%


 Selling and administrative
 
 
6,996,190
 
 
10,505,013
 
 
(3,508,823
)
 
(33
)%


 Other-than-temporary impairment
 
 
7,004,800
 
 
10,260,555
 
 
(3,255,755
)
 
(32
)%


 Provision for loan losses (net of recoveries)
 
 
82,811,753
 
 
241,328,039
 
 
(158,516,286
)
 
(66
)%


 Loss on sale and restructuring of loans
 
 
7,214,481
 
 
57,579,561
 
 
(50,365,080
)
 
(87
)%


 Management fee—related party
 
 
26,365,448
 
 
15,136,170
 
 
11,229,278
 
 
74
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other expenses
 
 
138,452,036
 
 
344,963,614
 
 
(206,511,578
)
 
(60
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from continuing operations before gain on exchange of profits interest, gain on extinguishment of debt, loss on sale of securities, net, loss on
termination of swaps, loss from equity affiliates and provision for income taxes
 
 
(104,874,293
)
 
(306,993,752
)
 
202,119,459
 
 
(66
)%


 Gain on exchange of profits interest
 
 
—
 
 
55,988,411
 
 
(55,988,411
)
 
(100
)%


 Gain on extinguishment of debt
 
 
229,321,130
 
 
54,080,118
 
 
175,241,012
 
 
nm
 


 Loss on sale of securities, net
 
 
(6,989,583
)
 
—
 
 
(6,989,583
)
 
nm
 


 Loss on termination of swaps
 
 
—
 
 
(8,729,408
)
 
8,729,408
 
 
(100
)%


 Loss from equity affiliates
 
 
(1,259,767
)
 
(438,507
)
 
(821,260
)
 
187
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes
 
 
116,197,487
 
 
(206,093,138
)
 
322,290,625
 
 
nm
 


 Provision for income taxes
 
 
(2,560,000
)
 
—
 
 
(2,560,000
)
 
nm
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
 
113,637,487
 
 
(206,093,138
)
 
319,730,625
 
 
nm
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss on impairment of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
—
 
 
(4,898,295
)
 
4,898,295
 
 
(100
)%


 Gain on sale of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
1,331,436
 
 
—
 
 
1,331,436
 
 
nm
 


 Loss on operations of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
(1,842,969
)
 
(966,868
)
 
(876,101
)
 
91
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(511,533
)
 
(5,865,163
)
 
5,353,630
 
 
(91
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
113,125,954
 
 
(211,958,301
)
 
325,084,255
 
 
nm
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
215,743
 
 
18,672,855
 
 
(18,457,112
)
 
(99
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss) attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
112,910,211
 
$
(230,631,156
)
$
343,541,367
 
 
nm
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



nm—not
meaningful 

66



 
Table of Contents
 Net Interest Income  
        Interest income decreased $21.8 million, or 19%, to $95.5 million in 2010 from $117.3 million in 2009. This
decrease was primarily due to a 17% decrease in average loans and investments from $2.3 billion for 2009 to $1.9 billion for 2010 due to payoffs, paydowns and modifications, as well as a 2%
decrease in the average yield on assets from 5.08% in 2009 to 4.98% in 2010. This decrease in yield was the result of a decrease in average LIBOR over the same period, along with the suspension of
interest on our non-performing loans, the suspension of accrued interest on certain of our loans and lower rates on refinanced and modified loans. Interest income from cash equivalents
increased $0.1 million to $0.8 million in 2010 compared to $0.7 million in 2009 as a result of an increase in average cash balances, net of a decrease in interest rates from 2009 to
2010. 
        Interest
expense decreased $17.1 million, or 21%, to $63.0 million in 2010 from $80.1 million in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to a 20% decrease in the
average balance of our debt facilities from $1.9 billion for 2009 to $1.5 billion for 2010. The decrease in average balance was related to decreased leverage on our portfolio due to the
repayment of certain debt resulting from the retirement of our debt at a discount with Wachovia on June 30, 2010 as well as loan payoffs and paydowns, along with the transfer of assets into our
CDO vehicles. The decrease was also due to a 1% decrease in the average cost of these borrowings from 4.27% for 2009 to 4.22% for 2010 due to a $4.5 million increase in the market value of
certain interest rate swaps deemed ineffective for hedge accounting purposes, which is recorded as a reduction of interest expense, and a decrease in average LIBOR, partially offset by an increase in
interest rates resulting from the restructuring of our term and working capital facilities with Wachovia in the third quarter of 2009. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Notes Payable"
below for further details. 
 Other Revenue  
        Other income increased $0.3 million, or 32%, to $1.1 million in 2010 from $0.8 million in 2009. This is primarily
due to fees received in 2010 related to a loan that was classified as held-for-sale and was sold during the second quarter of 2010. 
 Other Expenses  
        Employee compensation and benefits expense decreased $2.1 million, or 21%, to $8.1 million in 2010 from
$10.2 million in 2009. This decrease was primarily due to stock-based compensation expense and the accelerated vesting of all remaining shares of restricted stock granted to our employees in
the second quarter of 2009. No stock-based compensation expense for employees was recorded in 2010. Employee compensation and benefits expense represents salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation
related to employees, and incentive compensation for those employed by us during these periods. 
        Selling
and administrative expense decreased $3.5 million, or 33%, to $7.0 million in 2010 from $10.5 million in 2009. This decrease was primarily due to lower legal
costs associated with the foreclosure process on certain of our loans. The decrease was also due to grants of fully vested restricted stock awards to our independent directors in the second quarter of
2010 as compared to grants of restricted stock awards to all of our directors and certain employees of our manager and the acceleration of all previously unvested restricted stock in the second
quarter of 2009. These costs include, but are not limited to, professional and consulting fees, marketing costs, insurance expense, travel and placement fees, director's fees, licensing fees, and
stock-based compensation relating to the cost of restricted stock granted to our directors and certain employees of our manager. 
        Other-than-temporary
impairment charges of $7.0 million and $10.3 million that were recorded during the years ended December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively, represent the recognition of additional impairments to the fair market value of our available-for-sale securities that were considered
other-than-temporarily impaired. GAAP accounting guidance requires that investments are evaluated 
67



 
Table of Contents
periodically
to determine whether a decline in their value is other-than-temporary, though it is not intended to indicate a permanent decline in value. See Note 4 of the
"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof for further details. 
        Provision
for loan losses (net of recoveries) totaled $82.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and $241.3 million for the year ended December 31,
2009. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we performed an evaluation of our loan portfolio and determined that the fair value of the underlying collateral securing 27 impaired loans with
an aggregate carrying value of $455.4 million was less than the net carrying value of the loans, resulting in us recording an additional $100.9 million provision for loan losses. During
the year ended December 31, 2010, we received $15.2 million in recoveries related to three loans which were previously fully reserved, as well as $2.9 million of net recoveries
related to two loans in which the underlying properties were sold and we provided financing to the new operators. These recoveries were recorded in provision for loan losses on the Consolidated
Statement of Operations netting the provision to $82.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, we had an allowance for loan losses of
$205.5 million relating to 30 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of approximately $530.6 million. The provision of $241.3 million recorded in 2009
related to 34 loans with an aggregate carrying value of $693.7 million, before loan loss reserves, that were impaired. At December 31, 2009, we had an allowance for loan losses of
$326.3 million relating to 31 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of $693.7 million. 
        Loss
on sale and restructuring of loans decreased $50.4 million, or 87%, to $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from $57.6 million for the year
ended December 31, 2009. The loss of $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 represents $3.8 million for the write-down of four bridge loans, which
includes $1.1 million of transaction costs incurred in modifying a loan and having it transferred to a new borrower, and $3.4 million for the settlement of six loans and investments.
Loss on sale and restructuring of loans of $57.6 million in 2009 represents $31.1 million for the write-down of four loans and investments, $23.8 million for the
settlement of a bridge loan and $2.7 million for the settlement of a junior participation loan. 
        Management
fees increased $11.2 million, or 74%, to $26.4 million in 2010 from $15.1 million in 2009 due to an incentive management fee of $18.8 million
incurred for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2010 as compared to no incentive management fee earned in 2009 due to a significant increase in income in 2010. As more fully described
in "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Notes Payable" below, on June 30, 2010, we closed on the discounted payoff agreement with Wachovia and retired all of our debt with Wachovia at
the discount described. The gain recognized as a result of the completion of the retirement of the Wachovia debt was a significant contributor to an incentive fee for our manager in 2010. Management
fees represent compensation in the form of base management fees and incentive management fees as provided for in the management agreement with our manager. In August 2009 our management agreement was
amended to a cost reimbursement basis for our base management fees, which amounted to $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The amended management agreement also provides
for "success-based" payments
to be paid to our manager upon the completion of specified corporate objectives in addition to the standard base management fee. Refer to "Contractual Commitments—Management Agreement"
below for further details including information related to our amended management agreement with ACM. The base management fee expense was $15.1 million in 2009, which contained base management
fees for cost reimbursement of $8.0 million, success-based payments for the trust preferred and Wachovia debt restructurings of $4.1 million and $3.0 million of retroactive costs
representing consideration for 2008. 
        Gain
on exchange of profits interest of $56.0 million in 2009 was due to the recognition of income attributable to the exchange of our Prime Outlets Member, LLC ("POM")
profits interest in March 2009. See Note 5 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof 
68



 
Table of Contents
for
further details on the POM transaction recorded in 2009. There were no gains on exchange of profits interest in 2010. 
        Gain
on extinguishment of debt increased $175.2 million to approximately $229.3 million in 2010 from $54.1 million in 2009. On June 30, 2010 we closed on our
discounted payoff agreement with Wachovia and in doing so, recorded a $158.4 million gain to our Consolidated Statement of Operations, net of $0.4 million of warrant expense and
$0.6 million of other various expenses and commissions. Estimated state income taxes were approximately $0.9 million and recorded in provision for income taxes resulting in a net gain of
approximately $157.5 million. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Notes Payable" below for further details. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we also purchased, at a
discount, approximately $67.7 million of investment grade rated Class A2, B, C, D, E, F and G notes originally issued by our three CDO issuing entities for a price of $22.8 million and
recorded a net gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $44.8 million related to these transactions. We also recorded a $26.3 million gain on the partial settlement of our junior
subordinated notes in February 2010. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Junior Subordinated Notes" below for further details. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we
purchased, at a discount, approximately $42.8 million of investment grade rated Class B, C, F, G and H notes originally issued by our three CDO issuing entities. In addition, we
purchased, at a discount, approximately $9.4 million of junior subordinated notes originally issued by a wholly-owned subsidiary of our operating partnership. We recorded a total net gain on
early extinguishment of debt of $39.1 million related to these transactions. Also, during the second quarter of 2009, we settled a debt repurchase facility resulting in a gain on early
extinguishment of the debt of $15.0 million. 
        Loss
on sale of securities, net was $7.0 million in 2010 as a result of selling three investment grade CDO bonds, with an aggregate face value of $44.7 million and an
amortized cost of $40.4 million, for $29.9 million, resulting in a realized loss of $10.5 million, and four CMBS investments, with an aggregate face value of $21.5 million
and an amortized cost of $17.4 million, for $20.9 million, resulting in a realized gain of $3.5 million. See Note 4 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements"
set forth in
Item 8 hereof for a further description of these transactions. There were no gains or losses on sale of securities in 2009. 
        Loss
on termination of swaps of $8.7 million in 2009 resulted from the exchange of our outstanding trust preferred securities for newly issued unsecured junior subordinated notes
in the second quarter of 2009. Refer to "Sources of Liquidity—Junior Subordinated Notes" below. In connection with the original issuance of the trust preferred securities, we had entered
into various interest rate swap agreements. Due to the modified interest payment structure of the newly issued unsecured junior subordinated notes, the swaps were determined to no longer be effective
or necessary and were subsequently terminated, resulting in a loss of $8.7 million. There was no loss on termination of swaps in 2010. 
        Loss
from equity affiliates increased $0.8 million to $1.3 million in 2010 from $0.4 million in 2009. Loss from equity affiliates in 2010 includes a
$1.1 million impairment charge on an investment in an equity affiliate related to an office building that was considered other-than-temporarily impaired. GAAP accounting
guidance requires that investments are evaluated periodically to determine whether a decline in their value is other-than-temporary, though it is not intended to indicate a
permanent decline in value. Loss from equity affiliates in 2009 includes a $13.6 million impairment charge on two investments in equity affiliates that were considered
other-than-temporarily impaired. The impairment charge in 2009 was netted with income of $10.7 million from the August 2009 exchange of our remaining 7.5% equity
interest in POM in exchange for preferred and common operating partnership units of Lightstone Value Plus REIT L.P. which includes cash consideration of $2.2 million related to this
transaction. We owned the 7.5% interest through a 50% non-controlling interest in an unconsolidated joint venture, which had a 15% interest in Prime Outlets. Loss from equity affiliates
also included $0.1 million of losses and $2.5 million of income recorded during 2010 and 2009, 
69



 
Table of Contents
respectively,
which reflects a portion of the loss and income from our equity investments. See Note 5 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof
for further details. 
 Provision for Income Taxes  
        We are organized and conduct our operations to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, we are generally not
subject to federal income tax on our REIT—taxable income that we distribute to our stockholders, provided that we distribute
at least 90% of our REIT—taxable income and meet certain other requirements. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we were in compliance with all REIT requirements and, therefore, have
not recorded a provision for income taxes on our REIT—taxable income for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 with the exception of $0.9 million of estimated state
taxes for the year ended December 31, 2010 incurred in those states that do not adopt the federal tax law that allows us to elect to defer income generated from certain debt extinguishment
transactions, as well as recording a deferred tax provision of $1.7 million. While the gain on the Wachovia transaction results in taxable income, under current federal tax law, the gain and
the tax on the gain have been deferred to future periods at our election. 
        Certain
of our assets that produce non-qualifying income are owned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries, the income of which is subject to federal and state income taxes. During
the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we did not record any provision for income taxes from these taxable REIT subsidiaries. 
 Loss from Discontinued Operations  
        During the fourth quarter of 2011, we entered into negotiations to sell one of our real estate owned investments to a third party at
which time it was determined that the property met the held-for-sale requirements pursuant to the accounting guidance. As a result, property operating income and expenses,
which netted to a loss of $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 were reclassified to discontinued operations. We did not own this property in 2009. During the third quarter
of 2011, we entered into negotiations to sell another of our real estate owned investments to a third party. As a result, property operating income and expenses, which netted to a loss of
$0.7 million and $0.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were reclassified to discontinued operations. During the third quarter of 2010, we
agreed to sell another of our real estate owned investments to a third party. As a result, this investment was reclassified from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale
at a fair value of $5.5 million and property operating income and expenses, which netted to a loss of $0.3 million and less than $0.1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were reclassified to discontinued operations. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we sold the property and recorded a gain of $1.3 million. During
the third quarter of 2009, we mutually agreed with a first mortgage lender to appoint a receiver to operate another of our real estate owned investments. As a result, this investment was reclassified
from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale at a fair value of $41.4 million and property operating income and expenses, which netted to a loss of
$0.4 million in 2009, were reclassified to discontinued operations, and an impairment loss of $4.9 million was recorded to write down the investment to its fair value. Also in the third
quarter of 2009, we stopped recording interest expense related to the note payable for the real estate investment, as the interest expense is non-recourse and we are in the process of
cooperating with the receiver and the first lien holder in order for the first lien holder to take title to the office building subject to the $41.4 million first mortgage. For the year ended
December 31, 2010, the receiver's issued financial statements reported net income for this investment. We believe these amounts are not realizable at this time and, as such, did not record any
income from discontinued operations on this held-for-sale investment. See Note 6 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8
hereof for further details. 
70




 







 
Table of Contents 
 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest  
        Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest totaled $0.2 million in 2010 representing the portion of income allocated to
a third party's interest in a consolidated subsidiary, which holds an investment in operating partnership units that are accruing interest and dividend income, as well as a note payable that is
accruing interest expense. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest totaled $18.7 million in 2009, primarily as a result of the $56.0 million gain recorded from the exchange of
our profits interest in POM during the first quarter of 2009 allocated to the third party's interest in a consolidated subsidiary. See Note 8 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof. 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  
 Sources of Liquidity  
        Liquidity is a measurement of the ability to meet potential cash requirements. Our short-term and long-term
liquidity needs include ongoing commitments to repay borrowings, fund future loans and investments, fund additional cash collateral from potential declines in the value of a portion of our interest
rate swaps, fund operating costs and distributions to our stockholders as well as other general business needs. Our primary sources of funds for liquidity consist of proceeds from equity offerings,
debt facilities and cash flows from our operations. Our equity sources, depending on market conditions, consist of proceeds from capital market transactions including the future issuance of common,
convertible and/or preferred equity securities. Our debt facilities include the issuance of floating rate notes resulting from our CDOs, the issuance of junior subordinated notes and borrowings under
credit agreements. Net cash flows from operations include interest income from our loan and investment portfolio reduced by interest expense on our debt facilities, cash from other investments reduced
by expenses, repayments of outstanding loans and investments and funds from junior loan participation arrangements. 
        We
believe our existing sources of funds will be adequate for purposes of meeting our short-term and long-term liquidity needs. A majority of our loans and
investments are financed under existing debt obligations and their credit status is continuously monitored; therefore, these loans and investments are expected to generate a generally stable return.
Our ability to meet our long-term liquidity and capital resource requirements is subject to obtaining additional debt and equity financing. Any decision by our lenders and investors to
enter into such transactions with us will depend upon a number of factors, such as our financial performance, compliance with the terms of our existing credit arrangements, industry or market trends,
the general availability of and rates applicable to financing transactions, such lenders' and investors' resources and policies concerning the terms under which they make such capital commitments and
the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. 
        Current
conditions in the capital and credit markets have made certain forms of financing less attractive and, in certain cases, less available. Therefore, we will continue to rely on
cash flows provided by operating and investing activities for working capital. 
        To
maintain our status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT—taxable income. These distribution requirements limit
our ability to retain earnings and thereby replenish or increase capital for operations. However, we believe that our capital resources and access to financing will provide us with financial
flexibility and market responsiveness at levels sufficient to meet current and anticipated capital requirements. Under current IRS guidance, a listed REIT may offer shareholders elective stock
dividends, which are paid in a combination of cash and common stock with at least 10% of the total distribution paid in cash, to satisfy future dividend requirements. 
71



 
Table of Contents
 Cash Flows  
        As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $55.2 million and $101.1 million, respectively. The
following table shows our cash flow components (in thousands): 
















 
 
Twelve Months Ended
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Net cash (used in) / provided by operating activities
 
$
(390
)
$
20,376
 


 Net cash (used in) / provided by investing activities
 
 
(40,349
)
 
238,340
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(5,149
)
 
(222,215
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(45,888
)
 
36,501
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
 
 
101,125
 
 
64,624
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
 
$
55,237
 
$
101,125
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Our
cash flows from operating activities decreased by $20.8 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to the comparable period in 2010 primarily due to
an $11.7 million payment of a related party payable as well as a $10.6 million decrease in net interest income, net of a $1.5 million net increase in other assets and liabilities. 
        Cash
flows from investing activities decreased by $278.7 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to the comparable period in 2010 primarily due to a
$172.4 million increase in the origination of loans, a $29.9 million increase in the purchase of investments, a $50.7 million decrease in the sale of securities and a
$25.0 million decrease in payoffs and paydowns in 2011, as compared to 2010. 
        Cash
used in financing activities decreased by $217.1 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to the comparable period in 2010 mainly due to
$185.3 million for the closing of the discounted payoff agreement with Wachovia and $10.5 million for paydowns of our junior subordinated notes in 2010, as well as $84.8 million
increase of proceeds from loan participations, a repurchase agreement and a credit facility and $5.0 million from the repayment of a junior loan participation in 2011, and is net of a
$52.3 million increase in the use of restricted cash, a $9.4 million increase in the purchase of our own CDO bonds and the purchase of treasury stock for $5.7 million in 2011. 
 Equity Offerings  
        Our authorized capital provides for the issuance of up to 500 million shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and
100 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. 
        We
paid an incentive management fee for the twelve month period ending December 31, 2010 to ACM in a combination of cash and shares of common stock during the first quarter of
2011. We issued 666,927 shares of common stock in March 2011 for the portion of the incentive management fee paid in common stock. 
        In
June 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC under the 1933 Act with respect to an aggregate of $500.0 million of debt
securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants, that may be sold by us from time to time pursuant to Rule 415 of the 1933 Act. On June 23, 2010, the SEC
declared this shelf registration statement effective. 
        At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had 24,298,140 and 24,776,213 common shares outstanding, respectively. 
72



 
Table of Contents
 Debt Facilities  
        We also maintain liquidity through a repurchase agreement, a warehousing credit facility, a note payable and three junior loan
participations with six different financial institutions or companies. In addition, we have issued three collateralized debt obligations or CDOs and nine separate junior subordinated notes. London
inter-bank offered rate, or LIBOR, refers to one-month LIBOR unless specifically stated. As of December 31, 2011, these facilities had aggregate borrowings of
approximately $1.3 billion. 
        The
following is a summary of our debt facilities as of December 31, 2011: 






















 
 
At December 31, 2011 
 


Debt Facilities




 
Commitment 
 
Debt Carrying
Value 
 
Available 
 
Maturity
Dates 
 


 Repurchase agreements and credit facilities. Interest is variable based on pricing over LIBOR
 
$
76,105,000
 
$
76,105,000
 
$
—
 
 
2012 - 2013
 


 Collateralized debt obligations. Interest is variable based on pricing over three-month LIBOR(1)
 
 
1,002,615,393
 
 
1,002,615,393
 
 
—
 
 
2013 - 2014
 


 Junior subordinated notes. Interest is at a fixed rate(2)
 
 
158,261,468
 
 
158,261,468
 
 
—
 
 
2034 - 2037
 


 Notes payable. Interest is at a fixed rate and variable based on pricing over LIBOR
 
 
85,457,708
 
 
85,457,708
 
 
—
 
 
2012 - 2016
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,322,439,569
 
$
1,322,439,569
 
$
—
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Maturity
dates represent the weighted average remaining maturity based on the underlying collateral as of December 31, 2011.
(2)Represents
a total face amount of $175.9 million less a total deferred amount of $17.6 million. 

        These
debt facilities are described in further detail in Note 7 of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" set forth in Item 8 hereof. 
 Repurchase Agreements and Credit Facilities  
        Repurchase obligation financings provide us with a revolving component to our debt structure. Repurchase agreements provide stand alone
financing for certain assets and interim, or warehouse financing, for assets that we plan to contribute to our CDOs. 
        During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we financed the purchase of seven RMBS investments with a repurchase agreement with a financial institution for a total of
$30.0 million. During 2011, we paid down the debt by a total of $3.9 million due to principal paydowns received on the RMBS investments, reducing the total debt amount to
$26.1 million at December 31, 2011. The facility finances 80% to 90% of the value of each individual investment, has a rolling monthly term, and bears interest at a rate of 125 to 150
basis points over LIBOR. The facility also includes a minimum net worth covenant of $100.0 million and the outstanding balance reflects the seven investments currently financed in the facility. 
        In
July 2011, we entered into a two year, $50.0 million warehouse facility with a financial institution to finance first mortgage loans on multifamily properties. The facility
bears interest at a rate of 275 basis points over LIBOR, required a 1.00% commitment fee upon closing, matures in July 2013 with a one year extension option that requires two 5% paydowns and has
warehousing and non-use fees. The facility also has a maximum advance rate of 75% and contains several restrictions including 
73



 
Table of Contents
full
repayment of an advance if a loan becomes 60 days past due, is in default or is written down by us. The facility also includes various financial covenants including a minimum liquidity
requirement of $20.0 million, minimum tangible net worth which includes junior subordinated notes as equity of $150.0 million, maximum total liabilities less subordinate debt of $2.0 billion,
as well as certain other debt service coverage ratios and debt to equity ratios. The facility also has a compensating balance requirement of $50.0 million to be maintained by us and our
affiliates. At December 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of this facility was $50.0 million. 
        We
also had a repurchase agreement with a financial institution that bore interest at 250 basis points over LIBOR and had a term expiring in June 2011. This facility did not have
financial covenants and had a committed amount of $0.7 million at March 2011, reflecting the one asset that was financed. In June 2011, we repaid the facility in full. 
 CDOs  
        We completed the formation of three separate CDO entities since 2005 by issuing to third party investors, tranches of investment grade
collateralized debt obligations through newly-formed wholly-owned subsidiaries (the "Issuers"). The Issuers hold assets, consisting primarily of real-estate related assets and cash which
serve as collateral for the CDOs. The assets pledged as collateral for the CDOs were contributed from our portfolio of assets. By contributing these real estate assets to the various CDOs, these
transactions resulted in a decreased cost of funds relating to the corresponding CDO assets and created capacity in our debt facilities. 
        The
Issuers issued tranches of investment grade floating-rate notes of approximately $305.0 million, $356.0 million and $447.5 million for CDO I, CDO II
and CDO III, respectively. CDO III also has a $100.0 million revolving note which was not drawn upon at the time of issuance. The revolving note facility has a commitment fee of 0.22% per annum
on the undrawn portion of the facility. The tranches were issued with floating rate coupons based on three-month LIBOR plus pricing of 0.44% - 0.77%. Proceeds from the sale of the investment grade
tranches issued in CDO I, CDO II and CDO III of $267.0 million, $301.0 million and $317.1 million, respectively, were used to repay higher
costing outstanding debt under our repurchase agreements and notes payable. The CDOs could be replenished with substitute collateral for loans that are repaid during the first four years for CDO I and
the first five years for CDO II and CDO III, subject to certain customary provisions. Thereafter, the outstanding debt balance will be reduced as loans are repaid. Proceeds from the repayment of
assets which serve as collateral for the CDOs must be retained in its structure as restricted cash until such collateral can be replaced and therefore are not available to fund current cash needs. If
such cash is not used to replenish collateral, it could have a negative impact on our anticipated returns. As of April 15, 2011, CDO II reached the end of its replenishment date and will no
longer make quarterly amortization payments of $1.2 million to investors as a reduction of the CDO liability and as of April 15, 2009, CDO I reached the end of its replenishment date and
will no longer make quarterly amortization payments of $2.0 million to investors. As of January 15, 2012, CDO III has reached the end of its replenishment date. Investor capital will be
repaid quarterly from proceeds received from loan repayments held as collateral in accordance with the terms of the CDO. Proceeds distributed will be recorded as a reduction of the CDO liability. Our
CDO vehicles are VIEs for which we are the primary beneficiary and are consolidated in our Financial Statements. 
        During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased, at a discount, approximately $21.3 million of investment grade rated Class B, C, D, E and F notes originally issued
by our three CDO issuing entities for a price of $10.4 million from third party investors and recorded a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $10.9 million from these transactions in
our 2011 Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
74



 
Table of Contents
        During
the year ended December 31, 2010, we purchased, at a discount, approximately $67.7 million of investment grade rated Class A2, B, C, D, E, F and G notes originally issued
by our three CDO issuing entities for a price of $22.8 million from third party investors except for a $15.0 million Class B note which was purchased from our manager, ACM, for a price
of approximately $6.2 million. In 2010, ACM purchased this note from a third party investor for approximately $6.2 million. We recorded a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $44.8 million
from these transactions in our 2010 Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
        In
February 2010, we re-issued our own CDO bonds we had acquired throughout 2009 with an aggregate face amount of $42.8 million, as well as CDO bonds from other
issuers acquired in the second quarter of 2008 with an aggregate face amount of $25.0 million and a carrying value of $0.4 million, and $10.5 million in cash, as part of an exchange for
the retirement of $114.1 million of our junior subordinated notes. During 2009, our purchase of the approximately $42.8 million of investment grade rated Class B, C, F, G and H
notes originally issued by our three CDO issuing entities resulted in a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $31.0 million recorded in our 2009 Consolidated Statement of Operations. The
exchange transaction resulted in the recording of $65.2 million of additional CDO debt, of which $42.3 million represents the portion of our CDO bonds that were exchanged and
$22.9 million represents the estimated interest due on the reissued bonds through their maturity, of which $21.6 million remains at December 31, 2011. See "Liquidity and Capital
Resources—Junior Subordinated Notes" below. 
        The
following table sets forth the face amount and gain on extinguishment of our CDO bonds repurchased in the following periods by bond class: 




























 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


Class:



 
Face
Amount 
 
Gain 
 
Face
Amount 
 
Gain 
 
Face
Amount(1) 
 
Gain 
 


 A2
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
7,375,000
 
$
4,683,125
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 B
 
 
5,654,540
 
 
2,086,799
 
 
35,500,000
 
 
20,182,344
 
 
4,590,000
 
 
3,373,650
 


 C
 
 
7,005,291
 
 
3,502,815
 
 
12,350,132
 
 
9,823,405
 
 
12,821,021
 
 
10,415,770
 


 D
 
 
2,433,912
 
 
1,428,950
 
 
822,216
 
 
680,384
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 E
 
 
2,291,855
 
 
1,403,761
 
 
1,636,457
 
 
1,374,624
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 F
 
 
3,918,343
 
 
2,455,892
 
 
5,936,662
 
 
4,828,921
 
 
5,598,331
 
 
4,951,998
 


 G
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,030,552
 
 
3,254,671
 
 
6,846,155
 
 
4,813,078
 


 H
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
12,921,463
 
 
7,471,703
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
21,303,941
 
$
10,878,217
 
$
67,651,019
 
$
44,827,474
 
$
42,776,970
 
$
31,026,199
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)The
CDO bonds acquired during 2009 were re-issued in February 2010 as part of an exchange for the retirement of junior subordinated notes. 

        At
December 31, 2011, the outstanding note balance under CDO I, CDO II and CDO III was $166.5 million, $292.1 million and $544.0 million, respectively. 
        The
economic difficulties over the last several years in the structured finance markets has negatively impacted the credit markets generally, and, as a result, investor demand for
commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations has been substantially curtailed. In recent years, we have relied to a substantial extent on CDO financings to obtain match funded financing for
our investments. Until the market for commercial real estate CDOs recovers, we may be unable to utilize CDOs to finance our future investments and we may need to utilize less favorable sources of
financing to finance our investments on a long-term basis. There can be no assurance as to when demand for commercial real estate CDOs will return or the terms of such securities investors
will demand or whether we will be able to issue CDOs to finance our investments on terms beneficial to us. 
75




 







 
Table of Contents 
        The following table outlines borrowings and the corresponding collateral under our collateralized debt obligations as of December 31, 2011: 





































 
 
 
 
 
 
Collateral 
 
 
 


 
 
Debt 
 
Loans 
 
Securities 
 
Cash 
 
 
 


(Amounts in thousands)
 
Face
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Unpaid
Principal(1) 
 
Carrying
Value(1) 
 
Face
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Fair
Value(2) 
 
Restricted
Cash(3) 
 
Collateral
At-Risk(4) 
 


 CDO I—Issued four investment grade tranches January 19, 2005. Reinvestment period through April 2009. Stated maturity date of February 2040.
Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 4.49%
 
$
160,435,201
 
$
166,513,982
 
$
329,771,834
 
$
267,636,713
 
$
734,969
 
$
742,602
 
$
737,423
 
$
22,136
 
$
152,303,041
 


 CDO II—Issued nine investment grade tranches January 11, 2006. Reinvestment period through April 2011. Stated maturity date of
April 2038. Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 2.83%
 
 

285,827,267
 
 

292,073,302
 
 

443,418,527
 
 

380,782,546
 
 

10,000,000
 
 

2,000,000
 
 

2,000,000
 
 

17,136,397
 
 

131,932,659
 


 CDO III—Issued ten investment grade tranches December 14, 2006. Reinvestment period through January 2012. Stated maturity date of
January 2042. Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 1.24%
 
 

534,791,657
 
 

544,028,109
 
 

579,343,579
 
 

531,123,295
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

24,795,495
 
 

171,427,137
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total CDOs
 
$
981,054,125
 
$
1,002,615,393
 
$
1,352,533,940
 
$
1,179,542,554
 
$
10,734,969
 
$
2,742,602
 
$
2,737,423
 
$
41,954,028
 
$
455,662,837
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The following table outlines borrowings and the corresponding collateral under our collateralized debt obligations as of December 31, 2010: 





































 
 
 
 
 
 
Collateral 
 
 
 


 
 
Debt 
 
Loans 
 
Securities 
 
Cash 
 
 
 


(Amounts in thousands)
 
Face
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Unpaid
Principal(1) 
 
Carrying
Value(1) 
 
Face
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Fair
Value(2) 
 
Restricted
Cash(3) 
 
Collateral
At-Risk(4) 
 


 CDO I—Issued four investment grade tranches January 19, 2005. Reinvestment period through April 2009. Stated maturity date of February 2040.
Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 4.52%
 
$
220,475,564
 
$
226,770,198
 
$
413,724,169
 
$
337,901,200
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
474,669
 
$
171,330,710
 


 CDO II—Issued nine investment grade tranches January 11, 2006. Reinvestment period through April 2011. Stated maturity date of
April 2038. Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 2.77%
 
 

295,530,671
 
 

301,999,004
 
 

446,125,317
 
 

404,475,017
 
 

10,000,000
 
 

1,000,000
 
 

1,000,000
 
 

1,529,307
 
 

141,439,540
 


 CDO III—Issued ten investment grade tranches December 14, 2006. Reinvestment period through January 2012. Stated maturity date of
January 2042. Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 1.77%
 
 

532,540,000
 
 

542,083,353
 
 

609,849,262
 
 

561,766,846
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

49,810
 
 

174,133,105
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total CDOs
 
$
1,048,546,235
 
$
1,070,852,555
 
$
1,469,698,748
 
$
1,304,143,063
 
$
10,000,000
 
$
1,000,000
 
$
1,000,000
 
$
2,053,786
 
$
486,903,355
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Amounts
include loans to real estate assets consolidated by us that were reclassified to real estate owned and held-for-sale, net on
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(2)The
security with a fair value of $737,423 was rated AAA at December 31, 2011 by Standard & Poor's. The security with a fair value of
$2,000,000 was rated CCC- at December 31, 2011 and BB- at December 31, 2010 by Standard & Poor's.
(3)Represents
restricted cash held for reinvestment and/or principal repayments in the CDOs. Does not include restricted cash related to interest payments,
delayed fundings and expenses.
(4)Amounts
represent the face value of collateral in default, as defined by the CDO indenture, as well as assets deemed to be "credit risk". Credit risk assets
are reported by each of the CDOs and are generally defined as one that, in the CDO collateral manager's reasonable business judgment, has a significant risk of declining in credit quality or, with a
passage of time, becoming a defaulted asset. 

76



 
Table of Contents
        Our CDO vehicles contain interest coverage and asset over collateralization covenants that must be met as of the waterfall distribution date in
order for us to receive such payments. If we fail these covenants in any of our CDOs, all cash flows from the applicable CDO would be diverted to repay principal and interest on the outstanding CDO
bonds and we would not receive any residual payments until that CDO regained compliance with such tests. Our CDOs were in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31, 2011 as well as
on the most recent determination date in January 2012. In the event of a breach of the CDO covenants that could not be cured in the near-term, we would be required to fund our
non-CDO expenses, including management fees and employee costs, distributions required to maintain REIT status, debt costs, and other expenses with (i) cash on hand,
(ii) income from any CDO not in breach of a covenant test, (iii) income from real property and loan assets, (iv) sale of assets, (v) or accessing the equity or debt capital
markets, if available. We have the right to cure covenant breaches which would resume normal residual payments to us by purchasing non-performing loans out of the CDOs. However, we may not
have sufficient liquidity available to do so at such time. 
        The
chart below is a summary of our CDO compliance tests as of the most recent distribution date in January 2012: 



















Cash Flow Triggers



 
CDO I 
 
CDO II 
 
CDO III 
 


 Overcollateralization(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current
 
 

211.18
%
 

179.31
%
 

107.59
%


 Limit
 
 

184.00
%
 

169.50
%
 

105.60
%


 Pass / Fail
 
 

Pass
 
 

Pass
 
 

Pass
 


 Interest Coverage(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current
 
 

307.53
%
 

468.97
%
 

421.46
%


 Limit
 
 

160.00
%
 

147.30
%
 

105.60
%


 Pass / Fail
 
 

Pass
 
 

Pass
 
 

Pass
 








(1)The
overcollateralization ratio divides the total principal balance of all collateral in the CDO by the total principal balance of the bonds associated with
the applicable ratio. To the extent an asset is considered a defaulted security, the asset's principal balance for purposes of the overcollateralization test, is the lesser of the asset's market value
or the principal balance of the defaulted asset multiplied by the asset's recovery rate which is determined by the rating agencies. Rating downgrades of CDO collateral will generally not have a direct
impact on the principal balance of a CDO asset for purposes of calculating the CDO's overcollateralization test unless the rating downgrade is below a significantly low threshold
(e.g. CCC-) as defined in each CDO vehicle.
(2)The
interest coverage ratio divides interest income by interest expense for the classes senior to those retained by us. 

        As
of the determination dates in January 2012, October 2011, July 2011, April 2011 and January 2011, our overcollateralization ratios were 211.18%, 207.53%, 196.92%, 185.59% and 185.88%,
respectively, for CDO I; 179.31%, 181.78%, 181.74%, 181.74% and 171.81%, respectively, for CDO II; and 107.59%, 108.47%, 109.50%, 109.89% and 109.50%, respectively, for CDO III. The ratio will
fluctuate based on the performance of the underlying assets, transfers of assets into the CDOs prior to the expiration of their respective replenishment dates, purchase or disposal of other
investments, and loan payoffs. 
77



 
Table of Contents
 Junior Subordinated Notes  
        In February 2010, we retired $114.1 million of our junior subordinated notes, with a carrying value of $102.1 million in
exchange for the re-issuance of our own CDO bonds we had acquired throughout 2009 with an aggregate face amount of $42.8 million, CDO bonds from other issuers acquired in the second
quarter of 2008 with an aggregate face amount of $25.0 million and a carrying value of $0.4 million, and $10.5 million in cash. This transaction resulted in recording
$65.2 million of additional CDO debt, of which $42.3 million represents the portion of our CDO bonds that were exchanged and $22.9 million represents the estimated interest due on
the bonds through their maturity, a reduction to securities available-for-sale of $0.4 million representing the fair value of CDO bonds of other issuers, and a gain on
extinguishment of debt of approximately $26.3 million, or $1.03 per basic and diluted common share, in the first quarter of 2010. 
        In
May 2009, we retired $265.8 million of our then outstanding trust preferred securities, primarily consisting of $258.4 million of junior subordinated notes issued to
third party investors and $7.4 million of common equity issued to us in exchange for $289.4 million of newly issued unsecured junior subordinated notes, representing 112% of the original
face amount. The notes bear a fixed interest rate of 0.50% per annum until March 31, 2012 or April 30, 2012 (the "Modification Period"), and then interest is to be paid at the rates set
forth in the existing trust agreements until maturity, equal to a weighted average three month LIBOR plus 2.90%, which was reduced to 2.77% after the exchange in February 2010 mentioned above. The 12%
increase to the face amount due upon maturity, which had a balance of $17.6 million at December 31, 2011, is being amortized into interest expense over the life of the notes. We also
paid transaction fees of approximately $1.3 million to the issuers of the junior subordinated notes related to this restructuring which is being amortized over the life of the notes. 
        During
the Modification Period, we will be permitted to make distributions of up to 100% of taxable income to common shareholders. We have agreed that such distributions will be paid in
the form of our stock to the maximum extent permissible under the Internal Revenue Service rules and regulations in effect at the time of such distribution, with the balance payable in cash. This
requirement regarding
distributions in stock can be terminated by us at any time, provided that we pay the note holders the original rate of interest from the time of such termination. 
        The
junior subordinated notes are unsecured, have maturities of 25 to 28 years, pay interest quarterly at a fixed rate or floating rate of interest based on three-month LIBOR and,
absent the occurrence of special events, are not redeemable during the first two years. In connection with the issuance of the original variable rate junior subordinated notes, we had entered into
various interest rate swap agreements which were subsequently terminated upon the exchange discussed above. As a result, in 2009, we recorded a loss of $8.7 million, which was recorded to loss
on termination of swaps on our Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for further information relating to our
derivatives. 
        Also
in 2009, we purchased, at a discount, approximately $9.4 million of investment grade rated junior subordinated notes originally issued by a wholly-owned subsidiary of our
operating partnership for $1.3 million. We recorded a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $8.1 million and a reduction of outstanding debt totaling $9.4 million from this
transaction in our first quarter 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with this transaction, during the second quarter of 2009, we retired approximately $0.3 million of common
equity related to these junior subordinated notes. 
        At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate carrying value under these facilities was $158.3 million and $157.8 million, respectively, with a current weighted
average pay rate of 0.50%, however, based upon the accounting treatment for the restructure mentioned above, the effective rate was 3.85% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
78



 
Table of Contents
 Notes Payable  
        At December 31, 2011, notes payable consisted of one note payable and three junior loan participations. The aggregate
outstanding balance under these facilities was $85.5 million. 
        We
have a $50.2 million non-recourse note payable at December 31, 2011 related to a prior year exchange of profits interest transaction. During 2008, we
recorded a $49.5 million note payable related to the exchange of our POM profits interest for operating partnership units in
Lightstone Value Plus REIT, L.P. The note was initially secured by our interest in POM, matures in July 2016 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.06% with payment deferred until the closing
of the transaction. Upon the closing of the POM transaction in March 2009, the note balance was increased to $50.2 million and is secured by our investment in common and preferred operating
partnership units in Lightstone Value Plus REIT, L.P. 
        In
April 2011, we entered into a non-recourse junior loan participation in the amount of $32.0 million on a $50.0 million mezzanine loan. The loan was
participated out to a subordinate lender at a discount and we received $28.8 million of proceeds. The subordinate lender will receive its proportionate share of the interest received from the
loan which has a variable rate of LIBOR plus 4.35% and a maturity of July 2012. We also have the right to sell our $18.0 million senior participation to the subordinate lender, at face value,
in the event of default or if the loan is not repaid by July 9, 2012. The outstanding balance of this junior loan participation was $32.0 million at December 31, 2011. In June
2011, we entered into a non-recourse junior loan participation in the amount of $2.0 million on an $11.8 million mezzanine loan. The participation has a 0% rate of interest
and a maturity of August 2012. The outstanding balance of this junior loan participation was $2.0 million at December 31, 2011. We also have a third junior loan participation with an
outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 of $1.3 million on a $1.3 million bridge loan. Interest expense is based on a portion of the interest received from the loans.
Participations have a maturity date equal to the corresponding mortgage loan and are secured by the participant's interest in the mortgage loan. Interest expense is based on the portion of the
interest received from the loan that is paid to the junior participant. Our obligation to pay interest on participations is based on the performance of the related loan. 
        In
the first quarter of 2010, we entered into an agreement with Wachovia whereby we could retire all of our $335.6 million of debt outstanding at the time the parties began to
negotiate the agreement for a discounted payoff amount of $176.2 million, representing 52.5% of the face amount of the debt. The $335.6 million of indebtedness was comprised of
$286.1 million of term debt and a $49.5 million working capital facility. Upon closing on the discounted payoff agreement on June 30, 2010, we recorded a $158.4 million
gain to our Consolidated Statement of Operations, net of $0.4 million of stock warrant expense and $0.6 million of other various expenses and commissions. Estimated state income taxes
were approximately $0.9 million and recorded in provision for income taxes resulting in a net gain of approximately $157.5 million. In June 2010, we entered into a new
$26.0 million term financing agreement with a different financial institution collateralized by two multi-family loans. The maturity date of the facility was in December 2010 and the facility
bore an Interest rate of LIBOR plus 500 basis points or Prime plus 500 basis points. We paid a 1% commitment fee upon closing. In October 2010, we repaid the $26.0 million facility. In July
2009, we had amended and restructured our term credit agreements, revolving credit agreement and working capital facility (the "Amended Agreements") with Wachovia. Pursuant to the Amended Agreements,
the interest rate for the term loan facility was changed to LIBOR plus 350 basis points from LIBOR plus approximately 200 basis points and the interest rate on the working capital facility was changed
to LIBOR plus 800 basis points from LIBOR plus 500 basis points. We had also agreed to pay a commitment fee of 1.00% payable over three years and issued Wachovia 1.0 million warrants at an
average strike price of $4.00. All of the warrants expire on July 23, 2015 and no warrants have been exercised to date. The warrants were valued at approximately $0.6 million upon
issuance using the Black-Scholes method and were partially amortized into interest expense in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations as of the 
79



 
Table of Contents
second
quarter of 2010. The remaining portion totaling $0.4 million was expensed as part of the Wachovia discounted payoff gain described above. 
        Also,
during the second quarter of 2009, we settled a debt repurchase facility resulting in a gain on early extinguishment of the debt of $15.0 million. 
 Mortgage Note Payable—Real Estate Owned  
        During 2011, we assumed a $55.4 million interest-only first lien mortgage in connection with the acquisition of real
property pursuant to bankruptcy proceedings for an entity in which we had a $29.8 million loan secured by a portfolio of multifamily assets. The real estate investment was classified as real
estate owned in our Consolidated Balance Sheet in March 2011. The mortgage bears interest at a variable rate of one-month LIBOR plus 1.23% and has a maturity date of March 2014 with a one
year and three month extension option. In June 2011, one of the properties in the portfolio was sold to a third party for $1.6 million and the proceeds were used to pay down the first lien
mortgage. The outstanding balance of this mortgage was $53.8 million at December 31, 2011. 
 Mortgage Note Payable—Held-For-Sale  
        During 2010, we assumed a $20.8 million interest-only first lien mortgage related to a deed in lieu of foreclosure
agreement for an entity in which we had a $5.6 million junior participation loan secured by an apartment building. The real estate investment was originally classified as real estate owned and
was reclassified as real estate held-for-sale in December 2011. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.23% and has a maturity date of December 2013 with a five year
extension option. The outstanding balance of this mortgage was $20.8 million at December 31, 2011. 
        During
2008, we assumed a $41.4 million first lien mortgage related to the foreclosure of an entity in which we had a $5.0 million mezzanine loan. The real estate
investment was originally classified as real estate owned and was reclassified as real estate held-for-sale in
September 2009. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.13% and has a maturity date of June 2012. The outstanding balance of this mortgage was $41.4 million at December 31,
2011. 
 Restrictive Covenants  
        Our debt facilities contain various financial covenants and restrictions, including minimum net worth, minimum liquidity and maximum
debt balance requirements, as well as certain other debt service coverage ratios and debt to equity ratios. We were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions at December 31,
2011. 
        No
payment due under the Junior Subordinated Indentures may be paid if there is a default under any senior debt and the senior lender has sent notice to the trustee. The Junior
Subordinated Indentures are also cross-defaulted with each other. 
 Cash Flow From Operations  
        We continually monitor our cash position to determine the best use of funds to both maximize our return on funds and maintain an
appropriate level of liquidity. Historically, in order to maximize the return on our funds, cash generated from operations has generally been used to temporarily pay down borrowings under credit
facilities whose primary purpose is to fund our new loans and investments. Consequently, when making distributions in the past, we have borrowed the required funds by drawing on credit capacity
available under our credit facilities. Since we have substantially reduced our short-term debt, we may have to maintain adequate liquidity from operations to make any future distributions. 
80



 
Table of Contents
 Share Repurchase  
        In June 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan that enabled us to buy up to 1.5 million shares of our
common stock. At management's discretion, shares could be acquired from time to time on the open market, through privately negotiated transactions or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
A Rule 10b5-1 plan permits us to repurchase shares at times when we might otherwise be prevented from doing so. As of December 31, 2011, we repurchased all of the
1.5 million shares of our common stock under this stock repurchase plan at a total cost of $5.7 million and an average cost of $3.83 per share. In December 2011, the Board of Directors
authorized a stock repurchase plan that enables us to buy up to 0.5 million shares of our common stock beginning January 3, 2012. At management's discretion, shares may be acquired from
time to time on the open market, through privately negotiated transactions or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that will be
repurchased by us, the program may be terminated at any time, and will expire on July 3, 2012. As of March 1, 2012, we repurchased 170,170 shares of our common stock under this stock
repurchase plan at a total cost of $0.7 million and an average cost of $4.02 per share. 
        In
December 2010, ACM surrendered 701,197 shares of our common stock to us in payment of $3.6 million, or a 50% portion of a $7.3 million related party receivable due for
partial payment by December 31, 2010. The related party receivable of $7.3 million resulted from our prepayment of a management fee in August 2008 that was not earned due to a net loss
for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2009. In accordance with our management agreement amended in August 2009, at least 25% of the related party receivable was due to be repaid by
December 31, 2010 and 50% of the total repayment could be in our common stock. This acquisition of our common stock was recorded as treasury stock and was not part of a publicly announced plan
or program. 
 Contractual Commitments  
        As of December 31, 2011, we had the following material contractual obligations (payments in thousands): 































 
 
Payments Due by Period(1) 
 


Contractual Obligations




 
2012 
 
2013 
 
2014 
 
2015 
 
2016 
 
Thereafter 
 
Total 
 


 Repurchase agreements and credit facilities
 
$
26,105
 
$
50,000
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
76,105
 


 Collateralized debt obligations(2)
 
 
240,908
 
 
150,990
 
 
202,561
 
 
82,310
 
 
208,567
 
 
117,279
 
 
1,002,615
 


 Junior subordinated notes(3)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
175,858
 
 
175,858
 


 Notes payable
 
 
35,300
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
50,158
 
 
—
 
 
85,458
 


 Mortgage note payable—real estate owned(4)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
53,751
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
53,751
 


 Mortgage note payable—held-for-sale(5)
 
 
41,440
 
 
20,750
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
62,190
 


 Outstanding unfunded commitments(6)
 
 
10,568
 
 
4,393
 
 
2,405
 
 
1,831
 
 
744
 
 
22
 
 
19,963
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Totals
 
$
354,321
 
$
226,133
 
$
258,717
 
$
84,141
 
$
259,469
 
$
293,159
 
$
1,475,940
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Represents
principal amounts due based on contractual maturities. Does not include total projected interest payments on our debt obligations of
$30.4 million in 2012, $23.8 million in 2013, $19.6 million in 2014, $14.8 million in 2015, $12.0 million in 2016 and $101.6 million thereafter based on
current LIBOR rates.
(2)Comprised
of $166.5 million of CDO I debt, $292.1 million of CDO II debt and $544.0 million of CDO III debt with a weighted average
remaining maturity of 1.47, 2.85 and 2.48 years, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. The balance of estimated interest due through maturity on 

81



 
Table of Contents


CDO
bonds reissued in 2010, which is included in the carrying values of the CDOs, totaled $21.6 million at December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we
repurchased, at a discount, $21.3 million of investment grade notes originally issued by our CDO I, CDO II and CDO III issuers and recorded a reduction of the outstanding debt balance of
$21.3 million.  


(3)Represents
the face amount due upon maturity. The carrying value is $158.3 million, which is net of a deferred amount of $17.6 million at
December 31, 2011.
(4)Represents
a $55.4 million mortgage note payable with a contractual maturity in 2014, related to a real estate investment purchased out of bankruptcy
in March 2011, which was paid down in the second quarter of 2011 and had a balance of $53.8 million at December 31, 2011.
(5)Represents
a $41.4 million mortgage note payable with a contractual maturity in 2012, related to a real estate investment
held-for-sale that is expected to be transferred to the first mortgage lender in the second quarter of 2012 and a $20.8 million mortgage note payable with a contractual
maturity in 2013, related to a real estate investment acquired through deed in lieu of foreclosure in April 2010.
(6)In
accordance with certain loans and investments, we have outstanding unfunded commitments of $20.0 million as of December 31, 2011, that we
are obligated to fund as the borrowers meet certain requirements. Specific requirements include, but are not limited to, property renovations, building construction, and building conversions based on
criteria met by the borrower in accordance with the loan agreements. In relation to the $20.0 million outstanding balance at December 31, 2011, our restricted cash balance and CDO III
revolver capacity contained approximately $15.6 million available to fund the portion of the unfunded commitments for loans financed by our CDO vehicles. 

 Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements  
        At December 31, 2011, we did not have any off-balance-sheet arrangements. 
 Management Agreement  
        We, ARLP and Arbor Realty SR, Inc. have a management agreement with ACM, pursuant to which ACM provides certain services and we
pay ACM a base management fee and under certain circumstances, an annual incentive fee. 
        On
August 6, 2009, we amended our management agreement with ACM effective as of January 1, 2009. The amendment was negotiated by a special committee of our Board of
Directors, consisting solely of independent directors and was approved unanimously by all of the independent directors. 
        The
base management fee is an arrangement whereby we reimburse ACM for its actual costs incurred in managing our business based on the parties' agreement in advance on an annual budget
with subsequent quarterly true-ups to actual costs. The 2011, 2010 and 2009 base management fees were $8.3 million, $7.6 million and $8.0 million, respectively, and
the 2012 base management fee is estimated to be approximately $9.7 million. All origination fees on investments are now retained by us. 
        The
incentive fee is calculated as (1) 25% of the amount by which (a) our funds from operations per share, adjusted for certain gains and losses including gains from the
retirement and restructuring of debt and 60% of any loan loss reserve recoveries (spread over a three year period), exceeds (b) the product of (x) 9.5% per annum or the Ten Year U.S.
Treasury Rate plus 3.5%, whichever is greater, and (y) the greater of $10.00 or the weighted average of book value of the net assets contributed by ACM to ARLP per ARLP partnership unit, the
offering price per share of our common equity in the private offering on July 1, 2003 and subsequent offerings and the issue price per ARLP partnership unit for subsequent contributions to
ARLP, multiplied by (2) the weighted average of our outstanding shares. 
82




 







 
Table of Contents 
        The minimum return, or incentive fee hurdle, to be reached before an incentive fee is earned, is a percentage applied on a per share basis to the greater of
$10.00 or the average gross proceeds per share. In addition, 60% of any loan loss and other reserve recoveries are eligible to be included in the incentive fee calculation, which recoveries are spread
over a three year period. 
        The
management agreement also allows us to consider, from time to time, the payment of additional "success-based" fees to ACM for accomplishing certain specified corporate objectives;
has a termination fee of $10.0 million; and is renewable automatically for successive one-year terms, unless terminated with six months prior written notice. 
        We
incurred $8.3 million and $7.6 million of base management fees for services rendered in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $15.1 million, or $0.60 per basic and
diluted common share, of base management fees for services rendered in 2009. The $15.1 million in 2009 consisted of $8.0 million in base management fees, a $3.0 million
retroactive payment for 2008 costs, and success-based payments which were paid for the trust preferred and Wachovia debt restructurings totaling $4.1 million. No "success-based" payments were
made for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        The
incentive fee is measured on an annual basis. However, when applicable, we pay the annual incentive fee in quarterly installments, each within 60 days of the end of each
fiscal quarter. The
calculation of each installment is based on results for the twelve months ending on the last day of the fiscal quarter for which the installment is payable. These installments of the annual incentive
fee are deemed to be an advance subject to potential reconciliation at the end of such fiscal year, and any overpayments are required to be repaid in accordance with the amended management agreement.
Subject to the ownership limitations in our charter, at least 25% of this incentive fee is payable to our manager in shares of our common stock having a value equal to the average closing price per
share for the last 20 days of the fiscal quarter for which the incentive fee is being paid. For the twelve month period ending December 31, 2010, ACM earned an incentive management fee
of $18.8 million, which was included in due to related party as of December 31, 2010. As provided for in the management agreement, we offset the balance of a 2008 prepaid management fee
receivable of $3.6 million as of December 31, 2010, and ACM elected to be paid the remaining incentive management fee in 666,927 shares of our common stock and $11.1 million in
cash, which was subsequently remitted in 2011. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, ACM did not earn an incentive management fee. 
        As
more fully described in "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Notes Payable" above, on June 30, 2010, we closed on the discounted payoff agreement with Wachovia and
retired all of our debt with Wachovia at the discount described. The successful completion of the retirement of the Wachovia debt was a significant contributor to an incentive fee for the manager in
2010. As indicated earlier, gains on the extinguishment of debt are included in the incentive fee calculation and the gain, net of fees, certain expenses, and taxes, attributable to the Wachovia
transaction was $157.5 million. 
        Additionally,
in 2007, ACM received an incentive fee installment totaling $19.0 million which was recorded as a prepaid management fee related to the incentive fee on
$77.1 million of deferred revenue recognized on the transfer of control of the 450 West 33rd Street property, one of our equity affiliates. 
        The
incentive fee is accrued as it is earned. The expense incurred for the incentive fee paid in common stock is determined using the valuation method described above and the quoted
market price of our common stock on the last day of each quarter. At December 31 of each year, we remeasure the incentive fee paid to ACM in the form of common stock in accordance with current
accounting guidance, which discusses how to determine the expense when certain terms are not known prior to the measurement date. Accordingly, any expense recorded for such common stock is adjusted to
reflect the fair value of the common stock on the measurement date when the final calculation of the total incentive fee is determined. In the event that the incentive fee for the full year is an
amount less than the total of the installment payments made to ACM for the year, ACM will refund the amount of such 
83



 
Table of Contents
overpayment
to us in cash regardless of whether such installments were paid in cash or common stock. In such a case, we would record a negative incentive fee expense in the quarter when such
overpayment is determined. 
 Inflation  
        Changes in the general level of interest rates prevailing in the economy in response to changes in the rate of inflation generally have
little effect on our income because the majority of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities have floating rates of interest. However, the significant decline in interest rates in
the past triggered LIBOR floors on certain of our variable rate interest-earning assets. This resulted in an increase in interest rate spreads on certain assets as the rates we pay on variable rate
interest-bearing liabilities declined at a greater pace than the rates we earned on our variable rate interest-earning assets. The number of loans impacted by LIBOR floors have significantly decreased
over this time as a majority of the loans with such floors were paid off, monetized, modified or restructured. Additionally, we have various fixed rate loans in our portfolio which are financed with
variable rate LIBOR borrowings. In connection with these loans, we have entered into various interest swaps to hedge our exposure to the interest rate risk on our variable rate LIBOR borrowings as it
relates to certain fixed rate loans in our portfolio. However, the value of our interest-earning assets, our ability to realize gains from the sale of assets, and the average life of our
interest-earning assets, among other things, may be affected. See Item 7A—"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." 
 Related Party Transactions  
        Due from related party was approximately $0.7 million and $0.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, and consisted primarily of escrows held by ACM and its affiliates related to real estate transactions. In December 2010, ACM surrendered 701,197 shares of our common stock in payment of
$3.6 million, or a 50% portion of the $7.3 million receivable related to the exchange of our POM profits interest. The remaining $3.6 million was offset against the 2010 incentive
management fee as of December 31, 2010, which is discussed below. 
        Due
to related party was $2.7 million at December 31, 2011and consisted primarily of base management fees due to ACM, which will be remitted by us in the first quarter of
2012. At December 31, 2010, due to related party was $17.4 million and consisted primarily of an incentive management fee for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2010 of
$18.8 million, offset by the $3.6 million receivable discussed above, and base management fees of $2.3 million due to ACM, all of which were remitted by us in the first quarter of 2011.
ACM elected to be paid the remaining incentive management fee in 666,927 shares of the Company's common stock and $11.1 million in cash. See "Management Agreement" above. 
        In
December 2011, we completed a restructuring of a $67.6 million preferred equity loan on the Lexford Portfolio ("Lexford"), which is a portfolio of multi-family assets. We,
along with a consortium of independent outside investors, made an additional preferred equity investment of $25.0 million in
Lexford, of which we held a $10.9 million interest at December 31, 2011. The original preferred equity investment now bears a fixed rate of interest of 2.36%, revised from an original
rate of LIBOR plus 5.00% (the loan was paying a modified rate of LIBOR plus 1.65% at the time of the new investment). The original preferred equity investment matures in June 2020. The new preferred
equity investment has a fixed interest rate of 12% and also matures in June 2020. We, along with the same outside investors, also made a $0.1 million equity investment into Lexford, of which we
hold a $44,000 noncontrolling interest, and do not have the power to control the significant activities of the entity. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded losses from the entity against the
equity investment, reducing the balance to zero at December 31, 2011. We record this investment under the equity method of accounting. In addition, under the terms of the restructuring,
Lexford's first mortgage lender 
84



 
Table of Contents
required
a change of property manager for the underlying assets. The new management company is an affiliate of Mr. Ivan Kaufman, and has a contract with the new entity for 7.5 years and
will be entitled to 4.75% of gross revenues of the underlying properties, along with the potential to share in the proceeds of a sale or refinancing of the debt should the management company remain
engaged by the new entity at the time of such capital event. 
        During
the second quarter of 2011, we originated a mortgage loan to a third party borrower secured by property purchased from ACM, our manager. The loan had an unpaid principal balance
of $6.2 million, a maturity date of May 2014 and a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 6.00%. Upon approving the transaction, the independent directors committee of the Board of Directors
required us to sell the loan in 90 days and ACM agreed to guarantee the loan until it was sold. In the third quarter of 2011, the loan was sold to an affiliated entity of Mr. Ivan
Kaufman for $6.2 million. Interest income recorded from this loan for the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $0.2 million. 
        During
the second quarter of 2011, we originated a loan to a third party borrower for a portfolio of properties with an unpaid principal balance of $24.4 million as of
December 31, 2011, of which, one property in the portfolio was previously financed with an $11.7 million loan that was purchased by ACM, our manager. The $11.7 million loan was
repaid as part of the $24.4 million loan on the portfolio. The new loan has a maturity date of May 2016 and a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 4.75%. Interest income recorded from this loan
for the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $0.8 million. 
        During
the first quarter of 2011, we originated four mortgage loans totaling $28.4 million to borrowers which were secured by property purchased from ACM, our manager, or its
affiliate. Two of the loans totaling $22.4 million have maturity dates of March 2014 and a combined weighted average variable interest rate of 6.28% as of December 31, 2011 and were
secured by the same property. The third was a $2.0 million bridge loan with a maturity date of February 2013 and an interest rate of one-month LIBOR plus 6.00%. The fourth was a
$4.0 million bridge loan with a maturity date in April 2013 and an
interest rate of one-month LIBOR plus 6.00%. Interest income recorded from these loans for the year ended December 31, 2011 totaled approximately $1.5 million. 
        In
October 2010, we purchased, at par, a $4.7 million bridge loan from ACM. The loan was originated by ACM in June 2010 to a joint venture that acquired a condo development
property in Brooklyn, New York. The loan bears interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 8% with a LIBOR floor of 0.5% and a LIBOR cap of 1.5% and has a maturity date of June 2012. In
addition, ACM contributed $0.9 million for a 50% non-controlling interest in an entity, which owns 28% of this joint venture. In the third quarter of 2011, ACM sold its investment
in this joint venture to an affiliated entity of Mr. Ivan Kaufman for $0.9 million. Interest income recorded from this loan for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was
approximately $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively. 
        In
March 2010, an affiliated entity of Mr. Ivan Kaufman contributed $1.1 million for a 50% non-controlling interest in an entity, which owns 31% of a joint venture that
acquired a condo development property in Brooklyn, New York. In addition, in March 2010, ACM originated a $3.0 million bridge loan to this joint venture. In May 2010, we purchased the loan at par. The
loan was paid down $2.2 million in September 2010 and the remaining balance was paid off in October 2010. The loan bore interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 10% and had a maturity
date of March 2013. Interest income recorded from this loan for 2010 was approximately $0.1 million. 
        During
the third quarter of 2010, we purchased a $15.0 million investment grade rated bond originally issued by our CDO II issuing entity for a price of $6.2 million
from ACM who had purchased it from a third party investor in the third quarter of 2010 for $6.2 million, and recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $8.9 million from
this transaction. During 2009, we purchased from ACM, approximately $20.0 million of investment grade rated bonds originally issued by two of our three CDO issuing entities and approximately
$9.4 million of junior subordinated notes originally issued 
85



 
Table of Contents
by
a wholly-owned subsidiary of our operating partnership for $9.1 million and recorded a net gain on early extinguishment of debt of $20.3 million. ACM had purchased the CDO notes from
third party investors for $8.2 million in 2008, and the junior subordinated notes from third party investors for $1.3 million in 2009. 
 Other Related Party Transactions  
        We and our operating partnership have entered into a management agreement with ACM, as amended in August 2009, pursuant to which ACM
has agreed to provide us with structured finance investment opportunities and loan servicing as well as other services necessary to operate our business. As discussed above in "Management Agreement,"
we have agreed to pay our manager a base management fee monthly, based on an annual budget, and an incentive management fee when earned. 
        Under
the terms of the management agreement, ACM has also granted us a right of first refusal with respect to all structured finance investment opportunities in the multi-family and
commercial real estate markets that are identified by ACM or its affiliates. 
        In
addition, Mr. Kaufman has entered into a non-competition agreement with us pursuant to which he has agreed not to pursue structured finance investment opportunities
in the multi-family and commercial real estate markets, except as approved by our Board of Directors. 
        We
are dependent upon our manager, ACM, with whom we have a conflict of interest, to provide services to us that are vital to our operations. Our chairman, chief executive officer and
president, Mr. Ivan Kaufman, is also the chief executive officer and president of our manager, and, our chief financial officer and treasurer, Mr. Paul Elenio, is the chief financial
officer of our manager. In addition, Mr. Kaufman and his affiliated entities (the "Kaufman Entities") together beneficially own approximately 92% of the outstanding membership interests of ACM
and certain of our employees and directors, also hold an ownership interest in ACM. Furthermore, one of our former directors is general counsel to ACM and another of our directors also serves as the
trustee of one of the Kaufman Entities that holds a majority of the outstanding membership interests in ACM and co-trustee of another Kaufman Entity that owns an equity interest in our
manager. ACM currently holds approximately 5.3 million of our common shares, representing 22.0% of the voting power of our outstanding stock as of December 31, 2011. 
        We
and our operating partnership have also entered into a services agreement with ACM pursuant to which our asset management group provides asset management services to ACM. In the event
the services provided by our asset management group pursuant to the agreement exceed by more than 15% per quarter the level of activity anticipated by our Board of Directors, we will negotiate in good
faith with our manager an adjustment to our manager's base management fee under the management agreement, to reflect the scope of the services, the quantity of serviced assets or the time required to
be devoted to the services by our asset management group. See "Management Agreement" above. 
 Non-GAAP Financial Measures  
 Funds from Operations  
        We are presenting funds from operations ("FFO") because we believe it to be an important supplemental measure of our operating
performance in that it is frequently used by analysts, investors and other parties in the evaluation of real estate investment trusts (REITs). The revised White Paper on FFO approved by the Board of
Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, in April 2002 defines FFO as net income (loss) attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. (computed in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP")), excluding gains (losses) from sales of depreciated real properties, plus impairments of depreciated real
properties and real estate related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments 
86



 
Table of Contents
for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We consider gains and losses on the sales of undepreciated real estate investments to be a normal part of our recurring operating activities in
accordance with GAAP and should not be excluded when calculating FFO. In accordance with the revised white paper, losses from discontinued operations are not excluded when calculating FFO. 
        FFO
is not intended to be an indication of our cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) or a measure of our liquidity, nor is it entirely indicative of
funding our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. Our calculation of FFO may be different from the calculation used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be
limited. 
        FFO
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows: 



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust Inc
 
$
(40,311,713
)
$
112,910,211
 
$
(230,631,156
)


 Subtract:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gain on sale of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
—
 
 
(1,331,436
)
 
—
 


 Add:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss on impairment of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
1,450,000
 
 
 
 
 
4,898,295
 


 Depreciation—real estate owned and held-for-sale(1)
 
 
5,951,525
 
 
570,154
 
 
755,704
 


 Depreciation—investment in equity affiliates
 
 
331,544
 
 
—
 
 
419,923
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Funds from operations ("FFO")
 
$
(32,578,644
)
$
112,148,929
 
$
(224,557,234
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted FFO per common share
 
$
(1.30
)
$
4.36
 
$
(8.87
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding
 
 
24,968,894
 
 
25,741,290
 
 
25,313,574
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Includes
discontinued operations. 

 Adjusted Book Value  
        We believe that adjusted book value per share is an additional appropriate measure given the magnitude and the deferral structure of
the 450 West 33rd Street transaction from 2007, as well as the changes in the fair value of certain derivative instruments. Adjusted book value per share currently reflects the future impact of
the 450 West 33rd Street transaction on our financial condition as well as the evaluation of our operating results without the effects of unrealized losses from certain of our derivative
instruments. We consider this non-GAAP financial measure to be an effective indicator of our financial performance for both us and our investors. We do not advocate that investors consider
this non-GAAP financial measure in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial measures
prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, GAAP book value per share and adjusted book value per share calculations do not take into account any dilution from the potential exercise of the
warrants issued to Wachovia as part of the 2009 debt restructuring. 
87



 
Table of Contents
        GAAP
book value per share and adjusted book value per share as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 



















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 GAAP Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. Stockholders' Equity
 
$
171,126,405
 
$
204,415,381
 
$
96,693,606
 


 Add: 450 West 33rd Street transaction—deferred revenue
 
 
77,123,133
 
 
77,123,133
 
 
77,123,133
 


           Unrealized loss on derivative instruments
 
 
45,888,654
 
 
50,802,533
 
 
47,372,213
 


 Subtract: 450 West 33rd Street transaction—prepaid management fee
 
 
(19,047,949
)
 
(19,047,949
)
 
(19,047,949
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Adjusted Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. Stockholders' Equity
 
$
275,090,243
 
$
313,293,098
 
$
202,141,003
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Adjusted book value per share
 
$
11.32
 
$
12.64
 
$
7.96
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 GAAP book value per share
 
$
7.04
 
$
8.25
 
$
3.81
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Common shares outstanding
 
 
24,298,140
 
 
24,776,213
 
 
25,387,410
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




88




 










Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     
        Market risk is the exposure to loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity
prices and real estate values. The primary market risks that we are exposed to are real estate risk and interest rate risk. 
 Market Conditions  
        We are subject to market changes in the debt and secondary mortgage markets. These markets have experienced disruptions, which have and
may in the future have an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. 
        Current
conditions in the debt markets include reduced liquidity and increased risk adjusted premiums. These conditions may increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt. We
attempt to mitigate the impact of debt market disruptions by obtaining adequate debt facilities from a variety of financing sources. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in
these efforts, that such debt facilities will be adequate or that the cost of such debt facilities will be at similar terms. 
        The
secondary mortgage markets are still experiencing disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for collateralized debt obligations and increased investor yield requirements for
these obligations. In light of these conditions, we currently expect to finance a majority of our loan and investment portfolio with our current capital and debt facilities. 
 Real Estate Risk  
        Commercial mortgage assets may be viewed as exposing an investor to greater risk of loss than residential mortgage assets since such
assets are typically secured by larger loans to fewer obligors than residential mortgage assets. Multi-family and commercial property values and net operating income derived from such properties are
subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events such as natural disasters including hurricanes and earthquakes, acts of war and/or
terrorism (such as the events of September 11, 2001) and others that may cause unanticipated and uninsured performance declines and/or losses to us or the owners and operators of the real
estate securing our investment; national, regional and local economic conditions (which may be adversely affected by industry slowdowns and other factors); local real estate conditions (such as an
oversupply of housing, retail, industrial, office or other commercial space); changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; construction quality, construction delays, construction cost,
age and design; demographic factors; retroactive changes to building or similar codes; and increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs). In the event net operating income decreases, a
borrower may have difficulty repaying our loans, which could result in losses to us. In addition, decreases in property values reducing the value of collateral, and a lack of liquidity in the market,
could reduce the potential proceeds available to a borrower to repay our loans, which could also cause us to suffer losses. Even when the net operating income is sufficient to cover the related
property's debt service, there can be no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. 
 Interest Rate Risk  
        Interest rate risk is highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international
economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. 
        Our
operating results will depend in large part on differences between the income from our loans and our borrowing costs. Most of our loans and borrowings are variable-rate
instruments, based on LIBOR. The objective of this strategy is to minimize the impact of interest rate changes on our net interest income. In addition, we have various fixed rate loans in our
portfolio, which are financed with variable rate LIBOR borrowings. We have entered into various interest swaps (as discussed below) to 
89



 
Table of Contents
hedge
our exposure to interest rate risk on our variable rate LIBOR borrowings as it relates to our fixed rate loans. Certain of these swaps are scheduled to mature on the original maturity dates of
their corresponding loans. However, loans are sometimes extended and, consequently, do not pay off on their original maturity dates. If a loan is extended, whether it is through an existing extension
option or a modification, our exposure to interest rate risk may be increased. In these instances, we could have a fixed rate loan in our portfolio financed with variable debt and, since the
corresponding interest swap already matured, a portion of our debt is no longer protected against interest rate risk. Some of our loans and borrowings are subject to various interest rate floors. As a
result, the impact of a change in interest rates may be different on our interest income than it is on our interest expense. 
        One
month LIBOR approximated 0.30% at December 31, 2011 and 0.26% at December 31, 2010. 
        Based
on our loans, securities available-for-sale, securities held-to-maturity and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, and assuming the balances of these loans, securities and
liabilities remain unchanged for the subsequent twelve months, a 0.25% increase in LIBOR would increase our annual net income and cash flows by approximately $0.3 million. This is primarily due to a
substantial portion of our portfolio having variable interest rates, partially offset by various interest rate floors that are in effect at a rate that is above a 0.25% increase in LIBOR which would
limit the effect of a 0.25% increase, and increased expense on variable rate debt, partially offset by our interest rate swaps that effectively convert a portion of the variable rate LIBOR based debt,
as it relates to certain fixed rate assets, to a fixed basis that is not subject to a 0.25% increase. Based on the loans, securities available-for-sale, securities
held-to-maturity and liabilities as of December 31, 2011, and assuming the balances of these loans, securities and liabilities remain unchanged for the subsequent twelve months, a 0.25%
decrease in LIBOR would increase our annual net income and cash flows by approximately $0.1 million. This is primarily due to various interest rate floors which limit the effect of a decrease on
interest income and decreased expense on variable rate debt, partially offset by our interest rate swaps that effectively converted a portion of the variable rate LIBOR based debt, as it relates to
certain fixed rate assets, to a fixed basis that is not subject to a 0.25% decrease. 
        Based
on our loans, securities available-for-sale and liabilities as of December 31, 2010, and assuming the balances of these loans, securities and
liabilities remain
unchanged for the subsequent twelve months, a 0.25% increase in LIBOR would increase our annual net income and cash flows by approximately $0.7 million. This is primarily due to a substantial portion
of our portfolio having variable interest rates, partially offset by various interest rate floors that are in effect at a rate that is above a 0.25% increase in LIBOR which would limit the effect of a
0.25% increase, and increased expense on variable rate debt, partially offset by our interest rate swaps that effectively convert a portion of the variable rate LIBOR based debt, as it relates to
certain fixed rate assets, to a fixed basis that is not subject to a 0.25% increase. Based on the loans, securities available-for-sale and liabilities as of December 31,
2010, and assuming the balances of these loans, securities and liabilities remain unchanged for the subsequent twelve months, a 0.25% decrease in LIBOR would decrease our annual net income and cash
flows by approximately $0.7 million. This is partially offset by various interest rate floors which limit the effect of a decrease on interest income and decreased expense on variable rate debt,
partially offset by our interest rate swaps that effectively converted a portion of the variable rate LIBOR based debt, as it relates to certain fixed rate assets, to a fixed basis that is not subject
to a 0.25% decrease. 
        In
the event of a significant rising interest rate environment and/or economic downturn, defaults could increase and result in credit losses to us, which could adversely affect our
liquidity and operating results. Further, such delinquencies or defaults could have an adverse effect on the spreads between interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. 
        In
connection with our CDOs described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," we entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge
the exposure to the risk of changes in the difference between three-month LIBOR and one-month LIBOR 
90



 
Table of Contents
interest
rates. These interest rate swaps became necessary due to the CDO investor's return being paid based on a three-month LIBOR index while the assets contributed to the CDOs are yielding interest
based on a one-month LIBOR index. 
        As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had nine of these interest rate swap agreements outstanding that had combined notional values of $0.9 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.
The market value of these interest rate swaps is dependent upon existing market interest rates and swap spreads, which change over time. If there were a 25 basis point increase in forward interest
rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, the value of these interest rate swaps would have decreased by less than $0.1 million for both periods. If there were a 25 basis point
decrease in forward interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, the value of these interest rate swaps would have increased by less than $0.1 million for both periods. 
        We
also have interest rate swap agreements outstanding to hedge current and outstanding LIBOR based debt relating to certain fixed rate loans within our portfolio. We had 24 of these
interest rate swap agreements outstanding that had a combined notional value of $515.3 million as of December 31, 2011 compared to 30 interest rate swap agreements outstanding with combined
notional values of $639.7 million as of December 31, 2010. The fair market value of these interest rate swaps is dependent upon existing market interest rates and swap spreads, which change
over time. If there had been a 25 basis point increase in forward interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, the fair market value of these interest rate swaps would have
increased by approximately $3.3 million and $4.6 million, respectively. If there were a 25 basis point decrease in forward interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, the
fair market value of these interest rate swaps would have decreased by approximately $3.3 million and $4.7 million, respectively. 
        We
also had three LIBOR Caps with a combined notional value of $86.3 million as of December 2011 compared to one LIBOR Cap with a notional value of $7.0 million as of December 2010. If
there were a 25 basis point increase in forward interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, the value of the LIBOR Caps would have increased by less than $0.1 million for
both periods. If there were a 25 basis point decrease in forward interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, the value of the LIBOR Caps would have decreased by less than
$0.1 million for both periods. 
        Certain
of our interest rate swaps, which are designed to hedge interest rate risk associated with a portion of our loans and investments, could require the funding of additional cash
collateral for changes in the market value of these swaps. Due to the prolonged volatility in the financial markets that began in 2007, the value of these interest rate swaps has declined
substantially. As a result, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, we funded approximately $21.9 million and $21.3 million, respectively, in cash related to these swaps. If we continue to experience
significant changes in the outlook of interest rates, these contracts could continue to decline in value, which would require additional cash to be funded. However, at maturity the value of these
contracts return to par and all cash will be recovered. If we do not have available cash to meet these requirements, this could result in the early termination of these interest rate swaps, leaving us
exposed to interest rate risk associated with these loans and investments, which could adversely impact our financial condition. 
        Our
hedging transactions using derivative instruments also involve certain additional risks such as counterparty credit risk, the enforceability of hedging contracts and the risk that
unanticipated and significant changes in interest rates will cause a significant loss of basis in the contract. The counterparties to our derivative arrangements are major financial institutions with
high credit ratings with which we and our affiliates may also have other financial relationships. As a result, we do not anticipate that any of these counterparties will fail to meet their
obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately protect against the foregoing risks and will ultimately realize an economic benefit that exceeds the related amounts incurred
in connection with engaging in such hedging strategies. 
        We
utilize interest rate swaps to limit interest rate risk. Derivatives are used for hedging purposes rather than speculation. We do not enter into financial instruments for trading
purposes. 
91




 










Table of Contents 
    ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     
    INDEX TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF  ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES     

 












 
 
Page 


 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 

93


 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010
 

94


 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and
2009
 

95


 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010,
and 2009
 

96


 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 

97


 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 

98


 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 

100


 Schedule IV—Loans and Other Lending
Investments
 

177





        All
other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto. 
92




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
        We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive (loss) income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included
the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits. 
        We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2011 and
2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein. 
        We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated March 2, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 











 
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP




New
York, New York
March 2, 2012 
93




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
55,236,479
 
$
101,124,564
 


 Restricted cash (includes $65,357,993 and $21,085,664 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
67,326,530
 
 
21,085,664
 


 Loans and investments, net (includes $1,093,893,014 and $1,301,435,584 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
1,302,440,660
 
 
1,414,225,388
 


 Available-for-sale securities, at fair value (includes $2,000,000 and $1,000,000 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
4,276,368
 
 
3,298,418
 


 Securities held-to-maturity, net (includes $742,602 and $0 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
29,942,108
 
 
—
 


 Investment in equity affiliates
 
 
60,450,064
 
 
65,838,885
 


 Real estate owned, net (includes $83,099,540 and $2,707,479 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
128,397,612
 
 
22,839,480
 


 Real estate held-for-sale, net (includes $2,550,000 and $0 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
62,084,412
 
 
41,440,000
 


 Due from related party (includes $1,217 and $335,048 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
656,290
 
 
335,048
 


 Prepaid management fee—related party
 
 
19,047,949
 
 
19,047,949
 


 Other assets (includes $11,696,071 and $13,645,594 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
46,855,858
 
 
41,972,532
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
1,776,714,330
 
$
1,731,207,928
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities and Equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Repurchase agreements and credit facilities
 
$
76,105,000
 
$
990,997
 


 Collateralized debt obligations (includes $1,002,615,393 and $1,070,852,555 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
1,002,615,393
 
 
1,070,852,555
 


 Junior subordinated notes to subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities
 
 
158,261,468
 
 
157,806,238
 


 Notes payable
 
 
85,457,708
 
 
51,457,708
 


 Mortgage note payable—real estate owned
 
 
53,751,004
 
 
20,750,000
 


 Mortgage note payable—held-for-sale
 
 
62,190,000
 
 
41,440,000
 


 Due to related party
 
 
2,728,819
 
 
17,436,986
 


 Due to borrowers (includes $740,809 and $1,155,095 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
2,825,636
 
 
2,559,388
 


 Deferred revenue
 
 
77,123,133
 
 
77,123,133
 


 Other liabilities (includes $27,839,757 and $34,940,192 from consolidated VIEs, respectively)
 
 
82,595,636
 
 
84,375,680
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
1,603,653,797
 
 
1,524,792,685
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commitments and contingencies
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. stockholders' equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred stock, $0.01 par value: 100,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued or outstanding. 
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Common stock, $0.01 par value: 500,000,000 shares authorized; 26,778,737 shares issued, 24,298,140 shares outstanding at December 31, 2011 and
25,756,810 shares issued, 24,776,213 shares outstanding at December 31, 2010
 
 
267,787
 
 
257,568
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
455,994,695
 
 
450,686,382
 


 Treasury stock, at cost—2,480,597 shares at December 31, 2011 and 980,597 shares at December 31, 2010
 
 
(16,416,152
)
 
(10,669,585
)


 Accumulated deficit
 
 
(221,015,880
)
 
(180,689,667
)


 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
(47,704,045
)
 
(55,169,317
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. stockholders' equity
 
 
171,126,405
 
 
204,415,381
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Noncontrolling interest in consolidated entity
 
 
1,934,128
 
 
1,999,862
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total equity
 
 
173,060,533
 
 
206,415,243
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and equity
 
$
1,776,714,330
 
$
1,731,207,928
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
94




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Interest income
 
$
73,867,556
 
$
95,487,325
 
$
117,262,129
 


 Interest expense
 
 
51,651,933
 
 
62,979,036
 
 
80,102,075
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net interest income
 
 
22,215,623
 
 
32,508,289
 
 
37,160,054
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other revenue:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property operating income
 
 
24,168,370
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Other income
 
 
188,485
 
 
1,069,454
 
 
809,808
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other revenue
 
 
24,356,855
 
 
1,069,454
 
 
809,808
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Employee compensation and benefits
 
 
11,195,663
 
 
8,059,364
 
 
10,154,276
 


 Selling and administrative
 
 
7,325,801
 
 
6,996,190
 
 
10,505,013
 


 Property operating expenses
 
 
22,131,787
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
5,189,357
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Other-than-temporary impairment
 
 
—
 
 
7,004,800
 
 
10,260,555
 


 Provision for loan losses (net of recoveries)
 
 
38,542,888
 
 
82,811,753
 
 
241,328,039
 


 Loss on sale and restructuring of loans
 
 
5,710,000
 
 
7,214,481
 
 
57,579,561
 


 Management fee—related party
 
 
8,300,000
 
 
26,365,448
 
 
15,136,170
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other expenses
 
 
98,395,496
 
 
138,452,036
 
 
344,963,614
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from continuing operations before gain on exchange of profits interest, gain on extinguishment of debt, loss on sale of securities, net, loss on
termination of swaps, income (loss) from equity affiliates and provision for income taxes
 
 
(51,823,018
)
 
(104,874,293
)
 
(306,993,752
)


 Gain on exchange of profits interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
55,988,411
 


 Gain on extinguishment of debt
 
 
10,878,218
 
 
229,321,130
 
 
54,080,118
 


 Loss on sale of securities, net
 
 
—
 
 
(6,989,583
)
 
—
 


 Loss on termination of swaps
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(8,729,408
)


 Income (loss) from equity affiliates
 
 
3,671,386
 
 
(1,259,767
)
 
(438,507
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income before provision for income taxes
 
 
(37,273,414
)
 
116,197,487
 
 
(206,093,138
)


 Provision for income taxes
 
 
—
 
 
(2,560,000
)
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations
 
 
(37,273,414
)
 
113,637,487
 
 
(206,093,138
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss on impairment of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
(1,450,000
)
 
—
 
 
(4,898,295
)


 Gain on sale of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
—
 
 
1,331,436
 
 
—
 


 Loss on operations of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
(1,372,643
)
 
(1,842,969
)
 
(966,868
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(2,822,643
)
 
(511,533
)
 
(5,865,163
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
 
(40,096,057
)
 
113,125,954
 
 
(211,958,301
)


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
215,656
 
 
215,743
 
 
18,672,855
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(40,311,713
)
$
112,910,211
 
$
(230,631,156
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic (loss) earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of noncontrolling interest
 
$
(1.50
)
$
4.46
 
$
(8.88
)


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(0.11
)
 
(0.02
)
 
(0.23
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(1.61
)
$
4.44
 
$
(9.11
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted (loss) earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of noncontrolling interest
 
$
(1.50
)
$
4.41
 
$
(8.88
)


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(0.11
)
 
(0.02
)
 
(0.23
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(1.61
)
$
4.39
 
$
(9.11
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
24,968,894
 
 
25,424,481
 
 
25,313,574
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted
 
 
24,968,894
 
 
25,741,290
 
 
25,313,574
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
95




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME  



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
$
(40,096,057
)
$
113,125,954
 
$
(211,958,301
)


 Unrealized gain on securities available-for-sale
 
 
1,000,000
 
 
117,579
 
 
—
 


 Unrealized (loss) gain on derivative financial instruments
 
 
(20,698,621
)
 
(32,904,534
)
 
4,929,124
 


 Reclassification of net realized loss on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges into earnings
 
 
27,163,893
 
 
30,948,743
 
 
38,346,443
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive (loss) income
 
 
(32,630,785
)
 
111,287,742
 
 
(168,682,734
)


 Less:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
215,656
 
 
215,743
 
 
18,672,855
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(32,846,441
)
$
111,071,999
 
$
(187,355,589
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
96




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
 FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009  








































 
 
Common
Stock
Shares 
 
Common
Stock
Par Value 
 
Additional
Paid-in
Capital 
 
Treasury
Stock
Shares 
 
Treasury
Stock 
 
Accumulated
Deficit 
 
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Loss 
 
Total Arbor
Realty
Trust, Inc.
Stockholders'
Equity 
 
Non-
controlling
Interest 
 
Total 
 


 Balance—December 31, 2008
 
 
25,421,810
 
$
254,218
 
$
447,321,186
 
 
(279,400
)
$
(7,023,361
)
$
(62,939,722
)
$
(96,606,672
)
$
281,005,649
 
$
(10,981
)
$
280,994,668
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
245,000
 
 
2,450
 
 
2,412,346
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2,414,796
 
 
 
 
 
2,414,796
 


 Issuance of warrants in conjunction with debt restructuring
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
643,250
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
643,250
 
 
 
 
 
643,250
 


 Distributions—preferred stock of private REIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(14,500
)
 
 
 
 
(14,500
)
 
 
 
 
(14,500
)


 Net (loss) income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(230,631,156
)
 
 
 
 
(230,631,156
)
 
18,672,855
 
 
(211,958,301
)


 Distribution to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(16,721,510
)
 
(16,721,510
)


 Unrealized gain on derivative financial instruments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4,929,124
 
 
4,929,124
 
 
 
 
 
4,929,124
 


 Reclassification of net realized loss on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges into earnings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38,346,443
 
 
38,346,443
 
 
 
 
 
38,346,443
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance—December 31, 2009
 
 
25,666,810
 
$
256,668
 
$
450,376,782
 
 
(279,400
)
$
(7,023,361
)
$
(293,585,378
)
$
(53,331,105
)
$
96,693,606
 
$
1,940,364
 
$
98,633,970
 


 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(701,197
)
 
(3,646,224
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3,646,224
)
 
 
 
 
(3,646,224
)


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
90,000
 
 
900
 
 
309,600
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
310,500
 
 
 
 
 
310,500
 


 Distributions—preferred stock of private REIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(14,500
)
 
 
 
 
(14,500
)
 
 
 
 
(14,500
)


 Net income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
112,910,211
 
 
 
 
 
112,910,211
 
 
215,743
 
 
113,125,954
 


 Distribution to noncontrolling interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(156,245
)
 
(156,245
)


 Unrealized gain on securities available-for-sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
117,579
 
 
117,579
 
 
 
 
 
117,579
 


 Unrealized loss on derivative financial instruments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(32,904,534
)
 
(32,904,534
)
 
 
 
 
(32,904,534
)


 Reclassification of net realized loss on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges into earnings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30,948,743
 
 
30,948,743
 
 
 
 
 
30,948,743
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance—December 31, 2010
 
 
25,756,810
 
$
257,568
 
$
450,686,382
 
 
(980,597
)
$
(10,669,585
)
$
(180,689,667
)
$
(55,169,317
)
$
204,415,381
 
$
1,999,862
 
$
206,415,243
 


 Issuance of common stock for management fee
 
 
666,927
 
 
6,669
 
 
3,968,213
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,974,882
 
 
 
 
 
3,974,882
 


 Purchase of treasury stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1,500,000
)
 
(5,746,567
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5,746,567
)
 
 
 
 
(5,746,567
)


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
355,000
 
 
3,550
 
 
1,340,100
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,343,650
 
 
 
 
 
1,343,650
 


 Distributions—preferred stock of private REIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(14,500
)
 
 
 
 
(14,500
)
 
 
 
 
(14,500
)


 Net (loss) income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(40,311,713
)
 
 
 
 
(40,311,713
)
 
215,656
 
 
(40,096,057
)


 Distribution to non-controlling interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(281,390
)
 
(281,390
)


 Unrealized gain on securities available-for-sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,000,000
 
 
1,000,000
 
 
 
 
 
1,000,000
 


 Unrealized loss on derivative financial instruments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(20,698,621
)
 
(20,698,621
)
 
 
 
 
(20,698,621
)


 Reclassification of net realized loss on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges into earnings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27,163,893
 
 
27,163,893
 
 
 
 
 
27,163,893
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance—December 31, 2011
 
 
26,778,737
 
$
267,787
 
$
455,994,695
 
 
(2,480,597
)
$
(16,416,152
)
$
(221,015,880
)
$
(47,704,045
)
$
171,126,405
 
$
1,934,128
 
$
173,060,533
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
97




 







 
Table of Contents 
 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
$
(40,096,057
)
$
113,125,954
 
$
(211,958,301
)


 Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) income to cash provided by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
5,951,525
 
 
570,154
 
 
755,703
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
1,407,700
 
 
310,500
 
 
2,414,796
 


 Other-than-temporary impairment
 
 
—
 
 
7,004,800
 
 
10,260,555
 


 Gain on exchange of profits interest
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(55,988,411
)


 Gain on extinguishment of debt
 
 
(10,878,218
)
 
(229,321,130
)
 
(54,080,118
)


 Loss on sale of securities
 
 
—
 
 
6,989,583
 
 
—
 


 Gain on sale of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
—
 
 
(1,331,436
)
 
—
 


 Provision for loan losses (net of recoveries)
 
 
38,542,888
 
 
82,811,753
 
 
241,328,039
 


 Loss on sale and restructuring of loans
 
 
4,710,000
 
 
7,214,481
 
 
57,579,561
 


 Loss on termination of swaps
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
8,729,408
 


 Loss on impairment of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
1,450,000
 
 
—
 
 
4,898,295
 


 Amortization and accretion of interest, fees and intangible asset, net
 
 
10,167,955
 
 
8,093,907
 
 
6,939,180
 


 Change in fair value of non-qualifying swaps
 
 
(246,284
)
 
684,368
 
 
5,190,704
 


 Incentive compensation to manager—related party
 
 
—
 
 
18,765,448
 
 
—
 


 Deferred tax asset
 
 
—
 
 
1,710,000
 
 
—
 


 (Income) loss from equity affiliates
 
 
(3,671,386
)
 
1,259,767
 
 
438,507
 


 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other assets
 
 
(964,199
)
 
491,761
 
 
26,596,827
 


 Distributions of operations from equity affiliates
 
 
96,991
 
 
67,628
 
 
9,879,000
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
3,324,496
 
 
985,871
 
 
(10,700,710
)


 Change in restricted cash
 
 
576,447
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Due to/from related party
 
 
(10,761,480
)
 
942,194
 
 
4,280,341
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
$
(389,622
)
$
20,375,603
 
$
46,563,376
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loans and investments funded, originated and purchased, net
 
 
(219,608,438
)
 
(33,098,973
)
 
(8,569,643
)


 Payoffs and paydowns of loans and investments
 
 
157,753,440
 
 
182,727,203
 
 
123,759,512
 


 Deposits received relating to loan held-for-sale
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
20,500,000
 


 Proceeds from sale of loans
 
 
45,590,400
 
 
39,500,000
 
 
32,050,000
 


 Due to borrowers and reserves
 
 
(1,397,413
)
 
(217,974
)
 
(8,574,898
)


 Change in restricted cash
 
 
(1,050,000
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Deferred fees
 
 
2,860,067
 
 
527,898
 
 
2,851,909
 


 Purchases of available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
 
 
(2,122,050
)
 
—
 


 Purchases of securities held-to-maturity, net
 
 
(36,464,628
)
 
(4,481,719
)
 
(12,412,500
)


 Principal collection on available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
 
 
172,267
 
 
—
 


 Principal collection on securities held-to-maturity, net
 
 
6,515,800
 
 
99,499
 
 
2,710,012
 


 Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale securities
 
 
—
 
 
36,308,162
 
 
—
 


 Proceeds from sale of securities held-to-maturity, net
 
 
—
 
 
14,370,469
 
 
—
 


 Investment in real estate, net
 
 
(1,388,695
)
 
12,070
 
 
(59,986
)


 Proceeds from investments in real estate, net
 
 
1,497,278
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Proceeds from sale of real estate, net
 
 
1,600,000
 
 
6,826,992
 
 
—
 


 Contributions to equity affiliates
 
 
(793,500
)
 
(2,720,040
)
 
(295,330
)


 Distributions from equity affiliates
 
 
4,536,716
 
 
435,939
 
 
2,614,710
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash (used in) / provided by investing activities
 
$
(40,348,973
)
$
238,339,743
 
$
154,573,786
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Proceeds from loan participations, repurchase agreements, credit facilities and notes payable
 
 
110,763,000
 
 
26,000,000
 
 
33,878,700
 


 Payoffs and paydowns of repurchase agreements and notes payable
 
 
(4,848,997
)
 
(192,010,077
)
 
(215,375,061
)


 Paydowns of mortgage notes payable—real estate owned
 
 
(1,600,000
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Payoff of junior subordinated notes to subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities
 
 
—
 
 
(10,500,122
)
 
(1,265,625
)


 Payoff of notes payable—related party
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(4,200,000
)


 Proceeds from collateralized debt obligations
 
 
7,800,000
 
 
5,500,000
 
 
500,000
 


 Payoffs and paydowns of collateralized debt obligations
 
 
(64,413,892
)
 
(55,040,288
)
 
(21,307,941
)


 Change in restricted cash
 
 
(45,425,223
)
 
6,849,806
 
 
65,283,663
 


 Payments on swaps to hedge counterparties
 
 
(15,930,000
)
 
(24,350,000
)
 
(70,320,588
)


 Receipts on swaps from hedge counterparties
 
 
15,280,000
 
 
21,960,000
 
 
80,345,000
 


 Purchases of treasury stock
 
 
(5,746,567
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Distributions paid to noncontrolling interest
 
 
(281,390
)
 
(156,245
)
 
(221,510
)


 Distributions paid on preferred stock of private REIT
 
 
(14,500
)
 
(14,500
)
 
(14,500
)


 Payment of deferred financing costs
 
 
(731,921
)
 
(453,631
)
 
(4,647,066
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
$
(5,149,490
)
$
(222,215,057
)
$
(137,344,928
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
98



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued) 



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
 
$
(45,888,085
)
$
36,500,289
 
$
63,792,234
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
 
 

101,124,564
 
 

64,624,275
 
 

832,041
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
 
$
55,236,479
 
$
101,124,564
 
$
64,624,275
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Supplemental cash flow information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash used to pay interest
 
$

41,559,813
 
$

51,625,067
 
$

58,428,622
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash used (refunded) for taxes
 
$
161,185
 
$
930,153
 
$
(354,279
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loans transferred to real estate owned, net
 
$

83,099,540
 
$

—
 
$

8,525,428
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment in real estate, net
 
$
55,351,004
 
$
20,750,000
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Assumption of mortgage notes payable—real estate owned
 
$
55,351,004
 
$
20,750,000
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of common stock for management incentive fee
 
$
3,974,882
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment transferred to real estate held-for-sale, net
 
$
22,094,412
 
$
5,537,501
 
$
41,440,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Acquisition of tangible asset through restructure of loan
 
$
1,885,284
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Extinguishment of notes payable
 
$
—
 
$
159,417,756
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Extinguishment of trust preferred securities
 
$
—
 
$
102,110,610
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Re-issuance of CDO debt
 
$
—
 
$
42,304,391
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accrual of interest on reissued collateralized debt obligations
 
$
—
 
$
22,941,851
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities exchanged
 
$
—
 
$
400,000
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investments transferred to available-for-sale securities, at fair value
 
$
—
 
$
35,814,344
 
$
400,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unearned discounts recorded on restructured loans
 
$
—
 
$
7,658,598
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Repayment of due from related party through acquisition of treasury stock
 
$
—
 
$
3,646,224
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Repayment of due from related party through reduction of due to related party
 
$
—
 
$
3,646,224
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loan origination
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
500,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Margin calls applied to repurchase agreements
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
4,845,810
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Termination of swaps
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
17,034,929
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Retirement of common equity in trust preferred securities
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
7,727,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Collateral on swaps to hedge counterparties
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
(3,500,000
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of warrants
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
643,250
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loan paydowns received by related party
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
6,990,698
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Reclassification from due to borrowers to loans
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
20,684,387
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
99




 










Table of Contents 
 
    ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS         December 31, 2011     
 Note 1—Description of Business / Form of Ownership  

        Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. (the "Company") is a Maryland corporation that was formed in June 2003 to invest in a diversified portfolio of multi-family and commercial real
estate-related assets, primarily consisting of bridge loans, mezzanine loans, junior participating interests in first mortgage loans, and preferred and direct equity. The Company may also directly
acquire real property and invest in real estate-related notes and certain mortgage-related securities. The Company conducts substantially all of its operations through its operating partnership, Arbor
Realty Limited Partnership ("ARLP"), and ARLP's wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company is externally managed and advised by Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC ("ACM"). 
        The
Company is organized and conducts its operations to qualify as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for federal income tax purposes. A REIT is generally not subject to federal
income tax on its REIT—taxable income that it distributes to its stockholders, provided that it distributes at least 90% of that income and meets certain other requirements for
qualification as a REIT. Additionally, the Internal Revenue Service has issued guidance that temporarily allows listed REITs to offer shareholders elective dividends which are paid in a combination of
cash and common stock, even
if the amount payable in cash is capped, so long as that cap is not less than 10% of the total dividend. Certain of the Company's assets or operations that would not otherwise comply with the REIT
requirements, are owned or conducted by its taxable REIT subsidiaries, the income of which is subject to federal and state income taxes. 
        The
Company's charter provides for the issuance of up to 500 million shares of common stock, with a par value of $0.01 per share, and 100 million shares of preferred stock,
with a par value of $0.01 per share. The Company was incorporated in June 2003 and was initially capitalized through the sale of 67 shares of common stock for $1,005. 
        On
July 1, 2003, ACM contributed $213.1 million of structured finance assets and $169.2 million of borrowings supported by $43.9 million of equity in exchange
for a commensurate equity ownership in ARLP. In addition, certain employees of ACM were transferred to ARLP. At that time, these assets, liabilities and employees represented a substantial portion of
ACM's structured finance business. The Company is externally managed and advised by ACM and pays ACM a management fee in accordance with a management agreement. ACM also sources originations, provides
underwriting services, and services all structured finance assets on behalf of ARLP, and its wholly owned subsidiaries. 
        On
July 1, 2003, the Company completed a private equity offering of 1,610,000 units (including an overallotment option), each consisting of five shares of common stock and one
warrant to purchase one share of common stock at $75.00 per unit. The Company sold 8,050,000 shares of common stock in the offering. Gross proceeds from the private equity offering totaled
$120.2 million. Gross proceeds from the private equity offering combined with the concurrent equity contribution by ACM totaled approximately $164.1 million in equity capital. The
Company paid and accrued offering expenses of $10.1 million resulting in Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. stockholders' equity and noncontrolling interest of $154.0 million as a result of
the private placement. 
        In
April 2004, the Company sold 6,750,000 shares of its common stock in a public offering at a price of $20.00 per share, for net proceeds of approximately $124.4 million after
deducting the underwriting discount and other estimated offering expenses. The Company used the proceeds to pay down its indebtedness. In May 2004, the underwriters exercised a portion of their
over-allotment 
100



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 1—Description of Business / Form of Ownership (Continued) 
option,
which resulted in the issuance of 524,200 additional shares. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $9.8 million after deducting the underwriting discount. In October 2004,
ARLP received proceeds of approximately $9.4 million from the exercise of warrants for 629,345 operating partnership units. Additionally, in 2004 and 2005, the Company issued 973,354 and
282,776 shares of common stock, respectively, from the exercise of warrants under its Warrant Agreement, dated July 1, 2003, and received net proceeds of $12.9 million and
$4.2 million, respectively. 
        In
June 2007, the Company completed a public offering in which it sold 2,700,000 shares of its common stock registered for $27.65 per share, and received net proceeds of approximately
$73.6 million after deducting the underwriting discount and the other estimated offering expenses. The Company used the proceeds to pay down debt and finance its loan and investment portfolio. 
        In
June 2008, the Company's external manager exercised its right to redeem its approximate 3.8 million operating partnership units in the Company's operating partnership for
shares of the Company's common stock on a one-for-one basis. In addition, the special voting preferred shares paired with each operating partnership unit, pursuant to a pairing
agreement, were redeemed simultaneously and cancelled by the Company. 
        In
June 2010, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the "1933 Act") with respect to an aggregate of $500.0 million of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants that may be sold by the Company from
time to time pursuant to Rule 415 of the 1933 Act. On June 23, 2010, the SEC declared this shelf registration statement effective. 
        The
Company had 24,298,140 shares outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 24,776,213 shares outstanding at December 31, 2010. 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
 Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation  
        The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries, and
partnerships or other joint ventures in which the Company owns a voting interest of greater than 50 percent, and Variable Interest Entities ("VIEs") of which the Company is the primary
beneficiary. VIEs are defined as entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to
finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. A VIE is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which is the party that (i) has the
power to control the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and (ii) has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that could potentially be significant to
the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Current accounting guidance requires the Company to present a) assets of a consolidated
VIE that can be used only to settle obligations of the consolidated VIE, and b) liabilities of a consolidated VIE for which creditors (or beneficial interest holders) do not have recourse to
the general credit of the primary beneficiary. As a result of this guidance, the Company has separately disclosed parenthetically the assets and liabilities of its three collateralized debt obligation
("CDO") subsidiaries on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. Entities in which the Company owns a voting interest of 20 percent to 50 percent are accounted for 
101



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
primarily
under the equity method. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. All significant inter-company transactions and
balances have been eliminated in consolidation. 
        The
preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification™, the
authoritative reference for accounting principles generally acceptable in the United States ("GAAP"), requires management to make estimates and assumptions in determining the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Further, in connection with preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company evaluated events subsequent to the balance sheet
date of December 31, 2011 through the issuance of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        Certain
prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, the Company reclassified two real estate
investments from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale, resulting in a reclassification of the operating activity from property operating income and expenses as well
as impairment loss to
discontinued operations for all prior periods presented. Also, comprehensive (loss) income has been presented in a separate Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income and is no longer presented on the
Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity. 
 Cash and Cash Equivalents  
        All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents. The Company
places its cash and cash equivalents in high quality financial institutions. The consolidated account balances at each institution periodically exceeds the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)
insurance coverage and the Company believes that this risk is not significant. 
 Restricted Cash  
        At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had restricted cash of $67.3 million and $21.1 million, respectively.
Restricted cash primarily represents proceeds from loan repayments on deposit with the trustees for the Company's CDOs which will be used to purchase replacement loans as collateral for the CDO that
has not reached its replenishment date, unfunded loan commitments, interest payments received from loans and principal repayments for the CDOs that have reached their replenishment dates and are
remitted quarterly to the bond holders and the Company in the month following the quarter. As of January 2012, all three of the CDOs have reached the end of their replenishment periods. See
Note 7—"Debt Obligations." The Company's real estate owned assets also have restricted cash balances totaling $2.0 million as of December 31, 2011 due to escrow
requirements. See Note 6—"Real Estate Owned and Held-For-Sale." 
102



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 Loans, Investments and Securities  
        At the time of purchase, the Company designates a security as available-for-sale,
held-to-maturity, or trading depending on the Company's ability and intent to hold it to maturity. The Company does not have any securities designated as trading as of
December 31, 2011. Securities available-for-sale are reported at fair value with the net unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income or loss, while securities held-to-maturity are reported at amortized cost. Unrealized losses that are determined to be
other-than-temporary are recognized in earnings up to their credit component. The determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a subjective
process requiring judgments and assumptions. The process may include, but is not limited to, assessment of recent market events and prospects for near-term recovery, assessment of cash
flows, internal review of the underlying assets securing the investments, credit of the issuer and the rating of the security, as well as the Company's ability and intent to hold the investment to
maturity. Management closely monitors market conditions on which it bases such decisions. 
        The
Company also assesses certain of its securities, other than those of high credit quality, to determine whether significant changes in estimated cash flows or unrealized losses on
these securities, if any, reflect a decline in value which is other-than-temporary and, accordingly, should be written down to their fair value against earnings. On a quarterly
basis, the Company reviews these changes in estimated cash flows, which could occur due to actual prepayment and credit loss experience, to determine if an other-than-temporary
impairment is deemed to have occurred. The determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a subjective process requiring judgments and assumptions and is not necessarily
intended to indicate a permanent decline in value. The Company calculates a revised yield based on the current amortized cost of the investment, including any
other-than-temporary impairments recognized to date, and the revised yield is then applied prospectively to recognize interest income. 
        Loans
held for investment are intended to be held to maturity and, accordingly, are carried at cost, net of unamortized loan origination costs and fees, loan purchase discounts, and net
of the allowance for loan losses when such loan or investment is deemed to be impaired. The Company invests in preferred equity interests that, in some cases, allow the Company to participate in a
percentage of the underlying property's cash flows from operations and proceeds from a sale or refinancing. At the inception of each such investment, management must determine whether such investment
should be accounted for as a loan, joint venture or as real estate. To date, management has determined that all such investments are properly accounted for and reported as loans. 
        From
time to time, the Company may enter into an agreement to sell a loan. These loans are considered held-for-sale and are valued at the lower of the loan's
carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. For the sale of loans, recognition occurs when ownership passes to the buyer. 
 Impaired Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, Loss on Sale and Restructuring of Loans and Charge-offs  
        The Company considers a loan impaired when, based upon current information and events, it is probable that it will be unable to collect
all amounts due for both principal and interest according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. The Company evaluates each loan in its portfolio on a quarterly basis. The Company's loans are
individually specific and unique as it relates to product type, 
103



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
geographic
location, and collateral type, as well as to the rights and remedies and the position in the capital structure the Company's loans and investments have in relation to the underlying
collateral. The Company evaluates all of this information as well as general market trends related to specific classes of assets, collateral type and geographic locations, when determining the
appropriate assumptions such as capitalization and market discount rates, as well as the borrower's operating income and cash flows, in estimating the value of the underlying collateral when
determining if a loan is impaired. The Company utilizes internally developed valuation models and techniques primarily consisting of discounted cash flow and direct capitalization models in
determining the fair value of the underlying collateral on an individual loan. The Company may also obtain a third party appraisal, which may value the collateral through an "as-is" or
"stabilized value" methodology. Such appraisals may be used as an additional source of valuation information only and no adjustments are made to appraisals. Included in the evaluation of the
capitalization and market discount rates, the Company considers not only assumptions specific to the collateral but also considers geographical and industry trends that could impact the collateral's
value. 
        If
upon completion of the valuation, the fair value of the underlying collateral securing the impaired loan is less than the net carrying value of the loan, an allowance is created with
a corresponding charge to the provision for loan losses. The allowance for each loan is maintained at a level that is believed to be adequate by management to absorb probable losses. The Company had
an allowance for loan losses of $185.4 million at December 31, 2011 relating to 24 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of approximately
$285.0 million. At December 31, 2010, the Company had an allowance for loan losses of $205.5 million relating to 30 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss
reserves, of approximately $530.6 million and at December 31, 2009, the Company had an allowance for loan losses of $326.3 million relating to 31 loans with an aggregate carrying
value, before loan loss reserves, of approximately $693.7 million. 
        Loan
terms may be modified if the Company determines that based on the individual circumstances of a loan and the underlying collateral, a modification would more likely increase the
total recovery of the combined principal and interest from the loan. Any loan modification is predicated upon a goal of maximizing the collection of the loan. Typical triggers for a modification would
include situations where the projected cash flow is insufficient to cover required debt service, when asset performance is lagging the initial projections, where there is a requirement for
rebalancing, where there is an impending maturity of the loan, and where there is an actual loan default. Loan terms that have been modified have included, but are not limited to interest rate,
maturity date and in certain cases, principal amount. Length and amounts of each modification have varied based on individual circumstances and are determined on a case by case basis. If the loan
modification constitutes a concession whereas the Company does not receive ample consideration in return for the modification, and the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties and cannot repay
the loan under the current terms, then the modification is considered by the Company to be a troubled debt restructuring. If the Company receives a benefit, either monetary or strategic, and the above
criteria are not met, the modification is not considered to be a troubled debt restructuring. 
        The
Company records interest on modified loans on an accrual basis to the extent that the modified loan is contractually current. To date, the Company has not recorded interest income on
a modified loan where the Company has not subsequently received the cash. 
104



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
        Loss
on restructured loans are recorded when the Company has granted a concession to the borrower in the form of principal forgiveness related to the payoff or the substitution or
addition of a new debtor for the original borrower or when the Company incurs costs on behalf of the borrower related to the modification, payoff or the substitution or addition of a new debtor for
the original borrower. When a loan is restructured, the Company records its investment at net realizable value, taking into account the cost of all concessions at the date of restructuring. The
reduction in the recorded investment is recorded as a charge to the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period in which the loan is restructured. In addition, a gain or loss may be recorded
upon the sale of a loan to a third party as a charge to the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period in which the loan was sold. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, the Company recorded loss on sale and restructuring of loans of $5.7 million, $7.2 million and $57.6 million, respectively. 
        Charge-offs
to the allowance for loan losses occur when losses are confirmed through the receipt of cash or other consideration from the completion of a sale; when a
modification or restructuring takes place in which the Company grants a concession to a borrower or agrees to a discount in full or partial satisfaction of the loan; when the Company takes ownership
and control of the underlying collateral in full satisfaction of the loan; when loans are reclassified as other investments; or when significant collection efforts have ceased and it is highly likely
that a loss has been realized. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded charge-offs to the allowance for loan losses of $58.8 million,
$194.9 million and $41.3 million, respectively. 
 Real Estate Owned and Held-For-Sale  
        Real estate owned, shown net of accumulated depreciation and impairment charges, is comprised of real property acquired by foreclosure
or through partial or full settlement of mortgage debt. The real estate acquired is recorded at the estimated fair value at the time of acquisition. 
        Costs
incurred in connection with the foreclosure of the properties collateralizing the real estate loans are expensed as incurred and costs subsequently incurred to extend the life or
improve the assets subsequent to foreclosure are capitalized. 
        The
Company allocates the purchase price of its operating properties to land, building, tenant improvements, deferred lease costs for the origination costs of the in-place
leases, intangibles for the value of the above or below market leases at fair value and to any other identified intangible assets or liabilities. The Company finalizes its purchase price allocation on
these assets within one year of the acquisition date. The Company amortizes the value allocated to the in-place leases over the remaining lease term. The value allocated to the above or
below market leases are amortized over the remaining lease term as an adjustment to rental income. 
        Real
estate assets, including assets acquired by foreclosure or through partial or full settlement of mortgage debt, that are operated for the production of income, are depreciated using
the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. Ordinary repairs and maintenance which are not reimbursed by the tenants are expensed as incurred. Major replacements and
betterments which improve or extend the life of the asset are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful life. 
        The
Company's properties are individually reviewed for impairment each quarter, if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of the assets may not be
recoverable. The 
105



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
Company
recognizes impairment if the undiscounted estimated cash flows to be generated by the assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets. Measurement of impairment is based upon the
estimated fair value of the asset. Upon evaluating a property for impairment, many factors are
considered, including estimated current and expected operating cash flows from the property during the projected holding period, costs necessary to extend the life or improve the asset, expected
capitalization rates, projected stabilized net operating income, selling costs, and the ability to hold and dispose of such real estate owned in the ordinary course of business. Valuation adjustments
may be necessary in the event that effective interest rates, rent-up periods, future economic conditions, and other relevant factors vary significantly from those assumed in valuing the
property. If future evaluations result in a diminution in the value of the property, the reduction will be recognized as an impairment charge at that time. 
        Real
estate is classified as held-for-sale when management commits to a plan of sale, the asset is available for immediate sale, there is an active program to
locate a buyer, and it is probable the sale will be completed within one year. Properties classified as held-for-sale are not depreciated and the results of their operations
are shown in discontinued operations. Real estate assets that are expected to be disposed of are valued, on an individual asset basis, at the lower of their carrying amount or their fair value less
costs to sell. 
        The
Company recognizes sales of real estate properties upon closing. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits. Profit on real estate sold is recognized
upon closing using the full accrual method when the collectability of the sale price is reasonably assured and the Company is not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale. Profit may
be deferred in whole or in part until collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured and the earnings process is complete. 
 Revenue Recognition  
        Interest income—Interest income is recognized on the accrual basis as it is earned from loans, investments and securities. In certain instances, the
borrower pays an additional amount of interest at the time the loan is closed, an origination fee, a prepayment fee and/or deferred interest upon maturity. In some cases, interest income may also
include the amortization or accretion of premiums and discounts arising from the purchase or origination of the loan or security. This additional income, net of any direct loan origination costs
incurred, is deferred and accreted into interest income on an effective yield or "interest" method adjusted for actual prepayment activity over the life of the related loan or security as a yield
adjustment. Income recognition is suspended for loans when, in the opinion of management, a full recovery of all contractual principal is not probable. Income recognition is resumed when the loan
becomes contractually current and performance is resumed. The Company records income on certain impaired loans to the extent cash is received, in which a loan loss reserve has been recorded, as the
borrower continues to make interest payments. The Company recorded loan loss reserves related to these loans as it was deemed that full recovery of principal and interest was not probable. 
        Several
of the Company's loans provide for accrual of interest at specified rates, which differ from current payment terms. Interest is recognized on such loans at the accrual rate
subject to management's determination that accrued interest and outstanding principal are ultimately collectible, based on the 
106



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
underlying
collateral and operations of the borrower. If management cannot make this determination, interest income above the current pay rate is recognized only upon actual receipt. The Company
currently has no loans in its portfolio accruing such interest. Therefore, interest income is recorded on all of the Company's loans and investments only to the extent that the current pay rate is
received. 
        Given
the transitional nature of some of the Company's real estate loans, the Company may require funds to be placed into an interest reserve, based on contractual requirements, to cover
debt service costs. The Company will analyze these interest reserves on a periodic basis and determine if any additional interest reserves are needed. Recognition of income on loans with funded
interest reserves are accounted for in the same manner as loans without funded interest reserves. The Company will not recognize any interest income on loans in which the borrower has failed to make
the contractual interest payment due or has not replenished the interest reserve account. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had total interest reserves of $6.8 million on 34 loans
with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $524.3 million and had three non-performing loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $38.4 million with a funded
interest reserve of $0.1 million. Income from non-performing loans is generally recognized on a cash basis only to the extent it is received. Full income recognition will resume
when the loan becomes contractually current and performance has recommenced. 
        Additionally,
interest income is recorded when earned from equity participation interests, referred to as equity kickers. These equity kickers have the potential to generate additional
revenues for the Company as a result of excess cash flow distributions and/or as appreciated properties are sold or refinanced. The Company did not record interest income from such investments for the
years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
         Property operating income—Property operating income represents income associated with the operations of commercial real estate properties classified
as real estate owned. The Company recognizes revenue for these activities when the fees are fixed or determinable, or are evidenced by an arrangement, collection is reasonably assured and the services
under the arrangement have been provided. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded approximately $24.2 million of property operating income relating to its real estate
owned properties. The Company did not have property operating income in 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had two real
estate owned properties. This was due to a portfolio of multifamily assets that was purchased by the Company out of bankruptcy and a portfolio of hotel assets that was transferred to the Company by
the owner, a creditor trust. Both of these portfolios were acquired in the first quarter of 2011. Additionally, real estate investments were reclassified from real estate owned to real estate
held-for-sale in 2011, 2010 and 2009, resulting in the reclassification of all of the operating activity from these properties from property operating income and expenses into
discontinued operations for all prior periods. See Note 6—"Real Estate Owned and Held-for-Sale" for further details. 
        Other income—Other income represents loan structuring, defeasance, and miscellaneous asset management fees associated with the Company's loans and
investments portfolio. The Company recognizes these forms of income when the fees are fixed or determinable, are evidenced by an arrangement, collection is reasonably assured and the services under
the arrangement have been provided. 
107




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)  
 Investment in Equity Affiliates  
        The Company invests in joint ventures that are formed to acquire, develop and/or sell real estate assets. These joint ventures are not
majority owned or controlled by the Company, or are VIEs for which the Company is not the primary beneficiary, and are not consolidated in its financial statements. These investments are recorded
under either the equity or cost method of accounting as deemed appropriate. The Company records its share of the net income and losses from the underlying properties of its equity method investments
and any other-than-temporary impairment on these investments on a single line item in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as income or losses from equity affiliates. 
 Stock-Based Compensation  
        The Company has granted certain of its employees, directors, and employees of ACM, restricted stock awards consisting of shares of the
Company's common stock that vest immediately or annually over a multi-year period, subject to the recipient's continued service to the Company. The Company records stock-based compensation
expense at the grant date fair value of the related stock-based award with subsequent remeasurement for any unvested shares granted to non-employees of the Company with such amounts
expensed against earnings, at the grant date (for the portion that vests immediately) or ratably over the respective vesting periods. Dividends are paid on the restricted shares as dividends are paid
on shares of the Company's common stock whether or not they are vested. Stock-based compensation is disclosed in the
Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations under "employee compensation and benefits" for employees and under "selling and administrative" expense for non-employees. 
 Income Taxes  
        The Company is organized and conducts its operations to qualify as a REIT and to comply with the provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code with respect thereto. A REIT is generally not subject to federal income tax on taxable income which is distributed to its stockholders, provided that the Company distributes at least 90% of its
taxable income and meets certain other requirements. Certain REIT income may be subject to state and local income taxes. The Company's assets or operations that would not otherwise comply with the
REIT requirements, are owned or conducted by the Company's taxable REIT subsidiaries, the income of which is subject to federal and state income tax. Under current federal tax law, the income and the
tax on such income attributable to certain debt extinguishment transactions realized in 2009 and 2010 have been deferred to future periods at the Company's election. 
        Current
accounting guidance clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements. This guidance prescribes a recognition threshold
and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This guidance also provides clarity on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and disclosure. 
 Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)  
        The Company divides comprehensive income or loss into net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss), which includes
unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. 
108



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
In
addition, to the extent the Company's derivative instruments qualify as hedges, net unrealized gains or losses are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). See
"Derivatives and Hedging Activities" below. At December 31, 2011, accumulated other comprehensive loss was $47.7 million and consisted of $48.8 million of net unrealized losses on
derivatives designated as
cash flow hedges and a $1.1 million unrealized gain related to available-for-sale securities. At December 31, 2010, accumulated other comprehensive loss was
$55.2 million and consisted of $55.3 million of net unrealized losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and a $0.1 million unrealized gain related to
available-for-sale securities. 
 Earnings (Loss) Per Share  
        The Company presents both basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share. Basic earnings (loss) per share excludes dilution and is
computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per share reflects the potential
dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock, where such exercise or conversion would result in a lower per share
amount. 
 Variable Interest Entities  
        The Company has evaluated its loans and investments, mortgage related securities, investments in equity affiliates, junior subordinated
notes and CDOs, in order to determine if they qualify as VIEs or as variable interests in VIEs. This evaluation resulted in the Company determining that its bridge loans, junior participation loans,
mezzanine loans, preferred equity investments, investments in equity affiliates, junior subordinated notes, CDOs, and investments in mortgage related securities were potential VIEs or variable
interests in VIEs. A VIE is defined as an entity in which equity investors (i) do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, and/or (ii) do not have sufficient
equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties. A VIE is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which is defined as
the party that (i) has the power to control the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and (ii) has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that
could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. See Note 9—"Variable Interest Entities"
for further details. 
 Derivatives and Hedging Activities  
        The Company recognizes all derivatives as either assets or liabilities at fair value and these amounts are recorded in other assets or
other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. Additionally, the fair value adjustments will affect either accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings, or net income (loss) depending on
whether the derivative instrument qualifies as a hedge for accounting purposes and, if so, the nature of the hedging activity. The Company utilizes quotations from a third party to assist in the
determination of these fair values. 
        The
Company records all derivatives on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use of the
derivative, whether the Company has elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge 
109



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
accounting
and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair
value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of
the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the
timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk in a fair
value hedge or the earnings effect of the hedged forecasted transactions in a cash flow hedge. The Company may enter into derivative contracts that are intended to economically hedge certain of its
risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the Company elects not to apply hedge accounting. 
        In
the normal course of business, the Company may use a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risk. These derivative financial instruments must
be effective in reducing its interest rate risk exposure in order to qualify for hedge accounting. When the terms of an underlying transaction are modified, or when the underlying hedged item ceases
to exist, all changes in the fair value of the instrument are marked-to-market with changes in value included in net income (loss) for each period until the derivative
instrument matures or is settled. In cases where a derivative financial instrument is terminated early, any gain or loss is generally amortized over the remaining life of the hedged item. Any
derivative instrument used for risk management that does not meet the hedging criteria is marked-to-market with the changes in value included in net income (loss). The Company
uses derivatives for hedging purposes rather than speculation. See Note 10—"Derivative Financial Instruments" for further details. 
 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
        In December 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on disclosure about offsetting assets and liabilities which amends U.S. GAAP
to conform more to the disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"). This guidance is effective as of the first quarter of 2013 and the Company is currently
evaluating the impact it may have on its financial disclosure. 
        In
June 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on comprehensive income which amends U.S. GAAP to conform to IFRS disclosure requirements. The amendment eliminates the option to
present components of other comprehensive income as part of the Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity and requires a separate Statement of Comprehensive Income or two consecutive statements in
the Statement of Operations and in a separate Statement of Comprehensive Income. The guidance also requires the presentation of reclassification adjustments for each component of other comprehensive
income on the face of the financial statements rather than in the notes to the financial statements. This guidance is effective as of the first quarter of 2012, except for the disclosure of
reclassification adjustments which was postponed for re-deliberation by the FASB, and early adoption is permitted. The Company early adopted the guidance, with exception to the disclosure
of reclassification adjustments postponed for re-deliberation by the FASB. As the guidance only amends existing disclosure requirements, its adoption did not have a material effect on the
Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
May 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on fair value measurement which amends U.S. GAAP to conform to IFRS measurement and disclosure requirements. The amendments change 
110



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
the
wording used to describe the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value, changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances disclosure requirements. This guidance is
effective as of the first quarter of 2012, applied prospectively, and its adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
April 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on the transfer of financial assets which primarily removes certain criteria from the consideration of effective control over assets
subject to repurchase agreements when determining the recognition of a sale. The removal of these criteria will generally result in the assets transferred pursuant to the repurchase agreement being
accounted for as a secured borrowing, with both the transferred asset and repurchase liability recorded on the transferor's balance sheet. This guidance is effective as of the first quarter of 2012,
applied prospectively to transactions
which occur subsequent to the effective date, and its adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
April 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on a creditor's determination of whether a restructuring will be a troubled debt restructuring, which establishes new guidelines in
evaluating whether a loan modification meets the criteria of a troubled debt restructuring. This guidance was effective as of the third quarter of 2011, applied retrospectively to the beginning of the
fiscal year as required, and its adoption did not have a material effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
December 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance on business combinations, which clarifies that when pro forma financial information is required, it is to be presented as if the
business combination occurred at the beginning of the prior year. The guidance also requires a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly
attributable to the business combination. The guidance was effective for business combinations in fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010 and the adoption of this guidance on
January 1, 2011 did not have a material effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
July 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance on disclosures about the credit quality of financing receivables and the allowance for credit losses which requires a greater level of
information disclosed about the credit quality of loans and allowance for loan losses, as well as additional information related to credit quality indicators, past due information, and information
related to loans modified in a troubled debt restructuring. This guidance was effective as of the fourth quarter of 2010, except for the information related to loans modified in a troubled debt
restructuring which was effective as of the third quarter of 2011. As the guidance only amends existing disclosure requirements, its adoption resulted in additional disclosures and did not have a
material effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        In
January 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance on fair value measurements and disclosures, which requires disclosure of details of significant asset or liability transfers in and out
of Level 1 and Level 2 measurements within the fair value hierarchy and inclusion of gross purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the rollforward of assets and liabilities
valued using Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy. The guidance also clarifies and expands existing disclosure requirements related to the disaggregation of fair value disclosures and
inputs used in arriving at fair values for assets and liabilities using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy. This guidance was effective for interim and annual
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, and its adoption did not have a 
111



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
material
effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. The gross presentation of the Level 3 rollforward was required for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2010 and its adoption on January 1, 2011 did not have a material effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Note 3—Loans and Investments  

        The following table sets forth the composition of the Company's loan and investment portfolio at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010: 































 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
Percent of
Total 
 
Loan
Count 
 
Wtd. Avg.
Pay Rate(1) 
 
Wtd. Avg.
Remaining
Months to
Maturity 
 
First
Dollar
LTV
Ratio(2) 
 
Last
Dollar
LTV
Ratio(3) 
 


 Bridge loans
 
$
933,033,598
 
 
62
%
 
66
 
 
4.88
%
 
29.6
 
 
0
%
 
80
%


 Mezzanine loans
 
 
187,663,976
 
 
12
%
 
27
 
 
4.25
%
 
31.7
 
 
79
%
 
96
%


 Junior participation loans
 
 
280,945,639
 
 
19
%
 
9
 
 
3.99
%
 
36.3
 
 
60
%
 
81
%


 Preferred equity investments
 
 
100,751,231
 
 
7
%
 
17
 
 
4.18
%
 
89.0
 
 
89
%
 
97
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
1,502,394,444
 
 
100
%
 
119
 
 
4.59
%
 
35.1
 
 
27
%
 
84
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unearned revenue
 
 
(14,571,929
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance for loan losses
 
 
(185,381,855
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,302,440,660
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 































 
 
December 31,
2010 
 
Percent of
Total 
 
Loan
Count 
 
Wtd. Avg.
Pay Rate(1) 
 
Wtd. Avg.
Remaining
Months to
Maturity 
 
First
Dollar
LTV
Ratio(2) 
 
Last
Dollar
LTV
Ratio(3) 
 


 Bridge loans
 
$
1,070,013,851
 
 
66
%
 
54
 
 
4.14
%
 
33.0
 
 
0
%
 
88
%


 Mezzanine loans
 
 
233,406,411
 
 
14
%
 
30
 
 
4.83
%
 
32.4
 
 
78
%
 
97
%


 Junior participation loans
 
 
240,971,047
 
 
15
%
 
12
 
 
5.15
%
 
41.5
 
 
61
%
 
86
%


 Preferred equity investments
 
 
89,472,959
 
 
5
%
 
17
 
 
5.68
%
 
72.3
 
 
90
%
 
98
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
1,633,864,268
 
 
100
%
 
113
 
 
4.47
%
 
36.3
 
 
30
%
 
89
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unearned revenue
 
 
(14,168,578
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance for loan losses
 
 
(205,470,302
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loans and investments, net
 
$
1,414,225,388
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)"Weighted
Average Pay Rate" is a weighted average, based on the unpaid principal balances of each loan in the Company's portfolio, of the interest rate that
is required to be paid monthly as stated in the individual loan agreements. Certain loans and investments that require an additional rate of interest "Accrual Rate" to be paid at the maturity are not
included in the weighted average pay rate as shown in the table. At December 31, 2011 and 2010 the Company had no such loans in its portfolio that were currently accruing such interest.
(2)The
"First Dollar LTV Ratio" is calculated by comparing the total of the Company's senior most dollar and all senior lien positions within the capital stack
to the fair value of the underlying collateral to determine the point at which the Company will absorb a total loss of its position. 

112



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 3—Loans and Investments (Continued) 


(3)The
"Last Dollar LTV Ratio" is calculated by comparing the total of the carrying value of the Company's loan and all senior lien positions within the
capital stack to the fair value of the underlying collateral to determine the point at which the Company will initially absorb a loss. 

        Bridge
loans are loans to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition of a property and are predominantly secured by
first mortgage liens on the property. 
        Mezzanine
loans and junior participating interests in senior debt are loans that are subordinate to a conventional first mortgage loan and senior to the borrower's equity in a
transaction. Mezzanine financing may take the form of loans secured by pledges of ownership interests in entities that directly or indirectly control the real property or subordinated loans secured by
second mortgage liens on the property. 
        A
preferred equity investment is another method of financing in which preferred equity investments in entities that directly or indirectly own real property are formed. In cases where
the terms of a first mortgage prohibit additional liens on the ownership entity, investments structured as preferred equity in the entity owning the property serve as viable financing substitutes.
With preferred equity investments, the Company typically becomes a member in the ownership entity. 
 Concentration of Credit Risk  
        The Company operates in one portfolio segment, commercial mortgage loans and investments. Commercial mortgage loans and investments can
potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk. The Company is subject to concentration risk in that the unpaid principal balance related to 21 loans with five different borrowers
represented approximately 26% of total assets as of December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2010, the unpaid principal balance related to 32 loans with five unrelated borrowers represented
approximately 32% of total assets. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had 119 and 113 loans and investments, respectively. 
        In
addition, in 2011 and 2010, no single loan or investment represented 10% of the Company's total assets. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company generated approximately 7%, 7% and 8%,
respectively, of revenue from the Chetrit Group L.L.C. 
        As
a result of the loan review process at December 31, 2011, the Company identified loans and investments that it considers higher-risk loans that had a carrying
value, before loan loss reserves, of approximately $281.1 million and a weighted average loan-to-value ("LTV") ratio of 97%, compared to lower-risk loans
with a carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of $1.2 billion and a weighted average LTV ratio of 81%. 
        The
Company measures its relative loss position for its mezzanine loans, junior participation loans, and preferred equity investments by determining the point where the Company will be
exposed to losses based on its position in the capital stack as compared to the fair value of the underlying collateral. The Company determines its loss position on both a first dollar LTV and a last
dollar LTV basis. First dollar LTV is calculated by comparing the total of the Company's senior most dollar and all senior lien positions within the capital stack to the fair value of the underlying
collateral to determine the point at
which the Company will absorb a total loss of its position. Last dollar LTV is calculated by comparing the total of the carrying value of the Company's loan and all senior lien positions within the
capital stack to the fair value of the underlying collateral to determine the point at which the Company will initially absorb a loss. 
113




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 3—Loans and Investments (Continued)  

        As a component of the Company's policies and procedures for loan valuation and risk assessment, each loan and investment is assigned a credit risk rating. Individual ratings range from
one to five, with one being the lowest risk and five being the highest. Each credit risk rating has benchmark guidelines which pertain to debt-service coverage ratios, LTV ratio, borrower
strength, asset quality, and funded cash reserves. Other factors such as guarantees, market strength, remaining loan term, and borrower equity are also reviewed and factored into determining the
credit risk rating assigned to each loan. This metric provides a helpful snapshot of portfolio quality and credit risk. Given the Company's asset management approach, however, the risk rating process
does not result in differing levels of diligence contingent upon credit rating. That is because all portfolio assets are subject to the level of scrutiny and ongoing analysis consistent with that of a
'high-risk" loan. All assets are subject to, at minimum, a thorough quarterly financial evaluation in which historical operating performance is reviewed, and forward-looking projections
are created. Generally speaking, given the Company's typical loan and investment profile, a risk rating of three suggests that the Company expects the loan to make both principal and interest payments
according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement, and is not considered impaired. A risk rating of four indicates the Company anticipates that the loan will require a modification of some
kind. A risk rating of five indicates the Company expects the loan to underperform over its term, and that there could be loss of interest and/or principal. Ratings of 3.5 and 4.5 generally indicate
loans that have characteristics of both the immediately higher and lower classifications. Further, while the above are the primary guidelines used in determining a certain risk rating, subjective
items such as borrower strength, condition of the market of the underlying collateral, additional collateral or other credit enhancements, or loan terms, may result in a rating that is higher or lower
than might be indicated by any risk rating matrix. 
        A
summary of the loan portfolio's weighted average internal risk ratings and LTV ratios by asset class as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 

























 
 
As of December 31, 2011 
 


Asset Class



 
Unpaid
Principal
Balance 
 
Percentage
of Portfolio 
 
Wtd. Avg.
Internal
Risk Rating 
 
First Dollar
LTV Ratio 
 
Last Dollar
LTV Ratio 
 


 Multi-family
 
$
673,570,720
 
 
44.8
%
 
3.4
 
 
21
%
 
82
%


 Office
 
 
497,422,786
 
 
33.1
%
 
3.2
 
 
39
%
 
83
%


 Land
 
 
136,110,014
 
 
9.1
%
 
4.2
 
 
0
%
 
96
%


 Hotel
 
 
135,839,357
 
 
9.0
%
 
3.8
 
 
46
%
 
87
%


 Commercial
 
 
23,751,567
 
 
1.6
%
 
3.0
 
 
0
%
 
95
%


 Retail
 
 
21,050,000
 
 
1.4
%
 
2.9
 
 
0
%
 
66
%


 Condo
 
 
14,650,000
 
 
1.0
%
 
3.9
 
 
64
%
 
87
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
1,502,394,444
 
 
100.0
%
 
3.4
 
 
27
%
 
84
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




114



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 3—Loans and Investments (Continued) 


























 
 
As of December 31, 2010 
 


Asset Class



 
Unpaid
Principal
Balance 
 
Percentage
of Portfolio 
 
Wtd. Avg.
Internal
Risk Rating 
 
First Dollar
LTV Ratio 
 
Last Dollar
LTV Ratio 
 


 Multi-family
 
$
615,788,256
 
 
37.7
%
 
3.6
 
 
26
%
 
87
%


 Office
 
 
563,914,007
 
 
34.5
%
 
3.3
 
 
47
%
 
87
%


 Hotel
 
 
220,277,021
 
 
13.5
%
 
3.9
 
 
25
%
 
95
%


 Land
 
 
164,161,755
 
 
10.0
%
 
4.1
 
 
0
%
 
94
%


 Commercial
 
 
55,073,229
 
 
3.4
%
 
3.6
 
 
0
%
 
92
%


 Condo
 
 
14,650,000
 
 
0.9
%
 
3.9
 
 
66
%
 
90
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
1,633,864,268
 
 
100.0
%
 
3.6
 
 
30
%
 
89
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Geographic Concentration Risk  
        As of December 31, 2011, 37%, 14%, and 7% of the outstanding balance of the Company's loans and investments portfolio had
underlying properties in New York, California and Florida, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, 38%, 15%, and 12% of the outstanding balance of the Company's loans and investments portfolio
had underlying properties in New York, California and Florida, respectively. 
 Impaired Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses  
        The Company performs evaluations of the loan portfolio quarterly to assess the performance of its loans and whether a reserve for
impairment should be recorded. The Company considers a loan impaired when, based upon current information and events, it is probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts due for both
principal and interest according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. 
        During
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company determined that the fair value of the underlying collateral securing 11 impaired loans with an aggregate carrying value of
$109.5 million was less than the net carrying value of the loans, resulting in a $44.8 million provision for loan losses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, the
Company recorded $6.3 million of net recoveries of previously recorded loan loss reserves. These recoveries were recorded in provision for loan losses on the Consolidated Statement of
Operations. The effect of the recoveries resulted in a provision for loan losses, net of recoveries, of $38.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Of the $44.8 million of
loan loss reserves recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011, $35.2 million was attributable to loans on which the Company had previously recorded reserves, while $9.6 million of
reserves related to other loans in the Company's portfolio. The Company recorded a $100.9 million provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2010 when it performed an
evaluation of its loan portfolio and determined that the fair value of the underlying collateral securing 27 impaired loans with an aggregate carrying value of $455.4 million were less than the
net carrying value of the loans. In addition, the Company recorded $18.1 million in net recoveries of previously recorded loan loss reserves, of which $2.9 million was related to two
loans in which the underlying properties were sold and the Company provided financing to the new operators. The effect of these recoveries resulted in a provision for loan losses, net of recoveries,
of $82.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company recorded a $241.3 million provision for loan losses during the year 
115



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 3—Loans and Investments (Continued) 
ended
December 31, 2009 when it performed an evaluation of its loan portfolio and determined that the fair value of the underlying collateral securing 33 impaired loans with an aggregate
carrying value of $693.7 million were less than the net carrying value of the loans. There were no loans for which the collateral securing the loan was less than the carrying value of the loan
for which the Company had not recorded a provision for loan loss as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
        At
December 31, 2011, the Company had a total of 24 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of $285.0 million for which impairment reserves have
been recorded. At December 31, 2010, the Company had a total of 30 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of $530.6 million for which impairment reserves have
been recorded. At December 31, 2009, the
Company had a total of 31 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of $693.7 million for which impairment reserves have been recorded. 
        A
summary of the changes in the allowance for loan losses is as follows: 
















 
 
For the Year
Ended
December 31, 2011 
 
For the Year
Ended
December 31, 2010 
 


 Allowance at beginning of the period
 
$
205,470,302
 
$
326,328,039
 


 Provision for loan losses
 
 
44,810,000
 
 
100,932,519
 


 Charge-offs
 
 
(27,062,564
)
 
(194,910,892
)


 Charge-offs on loans reclassified to real estate owned, net
 
 
(31,710,929
)
 
—
 


 Market value adjustments(1)
 
 
—
 
 
(8,758,598
)


 Recoveries of reserves
 
 
(6,124,954
)
 
(18,120,766
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance at end of the period
 
$
185,381,855
 
$
205,470,302
 


 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Market
value adjustments represent discounts to the face values of loans that were amended and transferred to third party borrowers at below market interest
rates. These discounts will be accreted into interest income using the effective yield or interest method over the life of the amended loan. 

116



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 3—Loans and Investments (Continued) 
        A
summary of charge-offs and recoveries is as follows: 
















 
 
For the Year Ended 
 


 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 Charge-offs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Multi-family
 
$
(38,308,816
)
$
(42,721,176
)


 Office
 
 
(7,114,677
)
 
—
 


 Land
 
 
—
 
 
(38,600,926
)


 Hotel
 
 
(13,350,000
)
 
(91,892,636
)


 Commercial
 
 
—
 
 
(13,297,087
)


 Retail
 
 
—
 
 
(2,969,737
)


 Condo
 
 
—
 
 
(5,429,330
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
(58,773,493
)
$
(194,910,892
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Recoveries:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Multi-family
 
$
(2,243,197
)
$
(3,630,226
)


 Office
 
 
(3,881,757
)
 
—
 


 Hotel
 
 
—
 
 
(14,107,364
)


 Commercial
 
 
—
 
 
(2,913
)


 Retail
 
 
—
 
 
(380,263
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
(6,124,954
)
$
(18,120,766
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net Charge-offs
 
$
(52,648,539
)
$
(176,790,126
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ratio of net charge-offs during the period to average loans and investments outstanding during the period
 
 
3.4
%
 
9.6
%


 
 
 
 
 
 




        A summary of the Company's impaired loans by asset class is as follows: 

























 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 


Asset Class



 
Unpaid
Principal Balance 
 
Carrying
Value(1) 
 
Allowance for
Loan Losses 
 
Average Recorded
Investment(2) 
 
Interest Income
Recognized 
 


 Multi-family
 
$
67,195,296
 
$
67,149,845
 
$
57,379,670
 
$
128,883,743
 
$
1,665,703
 


 Office
 
 
45,102,262
 
 
39,972,420
 
 
26,560,000
 
 
68,153,802
 
 
2,698,846
 


 Land
 
 
133,335,376
 
 
132,142,122
 
 
58,700,000
 
 
131,795,519
 
 
16,978
 


 Hotel
 
 
33,671,507
 
 
35,771,507
 
 
33,671,515
 
 
76,171,507
 
 
979,647
 


 Condo
 
 
10,000,000
 
 
10,000,000
 
 
9,070,670
 
 
10,000,000
 
 
310,142
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
289,304,441
 
$
285,035,894
 
$
185,381,855
 
$
415,004,571
 
$
5,671,316
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 

























 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 2010 
 


Asset Class



 
Unpaid
Principal Balance 
 
Carrying
Value(1) 
 
Allowance for
Loan Losses 
 
Average Recorded
Investment(2) 
 
Interest Income
Recognized 
 


 Multi-family
 
$
190,572,190
 
$
189,163,526
 
$
77,681,683
 
$
222,921,562
 
$
14,441,677
 


 Office
 
 
91,205,342
 
 
86,132,382
 
 
27,996,434
 
 
63,250,888
 
 
4,391,819
 


 Hotel
 
 
118,671,507
 
 
116,643,603
 
 
32,021,515
 
 
135,026,570
 
 
8,479,337
 


 Land
 
 
130,255,661
 
 
128,686,443
 
 
58,700,000
 
 
166,491,482
 
 
9,312,061
 


 Commercial
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
19,148,544
 
 
—
 


 Condo
 
 
10,000,000
 
 
10,000,000
 
 
9,070,670
 
 
12,934,614
 
 
330,175
 


 Retail
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,292,818
 
 
18,826
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
540,704,700
 
$
530,625,954
 
$
205,470,302
 
$
623,066,478
 
$
36,973,895
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Represents
the unpaid principal balance of impaired loans less unearned revenue and other holdbacks and adjustments by asset class.
(2)Represents
an average of the beginning and ending unpaid principal balance of each asset class. 

117



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 3—Loans and Investments (Continued) 
        During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company received $9.4 million in principal payoffs on five loans with a total carrying
value of $19.8 million, wrote down four loans with an aggregate carrying value of $61.2 million to $11.3 million, after principal paydowns of $40.3 million and sold a loan
to a third party with a carrying value of $7.0 million, which had been fully reserved in a prior period, for $0.2 million. The Company also entered into a $32.0 million
non-recourse junior loan participation for $28.8 million on a loan with an unpaid principal balance of $50.0 million and recorded a $2.9 million net
non-cash recovery of a previously recorded reserve as well as a
$3.2 million charge to interest expense as a result of the amortization of discount on the participation. See Note 7—"Debt Obligations—Notes Payable." The Company
recorded charge-offs to reserves of $27.1 million related to these transactions. The Company also charged-off $31.7 million of loan loss reserves related to two
loans with carrying values totaling approximately $77.2 million, net of reserves and assumed debt, on properties that were transferred to the Company by the owner, a creditor trust as well as
purchased by the Company out of bankruptcy and recorded to real estate owned, net on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet in the first quarter of 2011. See Note 6—"Real Estate
Owned and Held-For-Sale" for further details. Loss on sale and restructuring of loans of $5.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 represents
$4.7 million from the sale of a $30.0 million portion of a $67.0 million loan to a third party for $25.3 million as well as $1.0 million from the execution of a
forbearance agreement in the first quarter of 2011 on a loan modified in the second quarter of 2011. 
        During
the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company wrote down six loans with an aggregate carrying value of $122.7 million to $94.3 million, after principal
paydowns of $8.8 million, sold two loans with a carrying value of $108.7 million, at a discount, for approximately $60.0 million and received $45.3 million in principal
payoffs on eight loans with a total carrying value of $158.2 million. The Company also wrote off two loans with a carrying value of $30.3 million. The Company recorded
charge-offs to reserves of $194.9 million, market value adjustments of $8.8 million and loss on sale and restructuring of loans totaling $7.2 million related to these
transactions. 
        During
the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to sell one of its bridge loans for $35.0 million. The Company received $20.5 million in
non-refundable deposits from the purchaser during the fourth quarter of 2009, which was recorded in other liabilities on the Company's December 31, 2009 Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The remaining purchase price of $14.5 million was collected at the close of the transaction in April 2010. 
        In
2010, the Company also reclassified a $5.6 million loan loss reserve related to a junior participation loan on a property that was acquired through
deed-in-lieu of foreclosure and recorded to real estate owned, net, on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet in the second quarter of 2010, and then terminated the loan and
removed the reserve. See Note 6—"Real Estate Owned and Held-For-Sale" for further details. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, 12 loans with a net carrying value of approximately $15.3 million, net of related loan loss reserves of $42.6 million, were classified as
non-performing, of which one loan with a carrying value of $1.4 million did not have a loan loss reserve. Income from non-performing loans is recognized on a cash basis
only to the extent it is received. Full income recognition will resume when the loan becomes contractually current and performance has recommenced. Additionally, the Company has five loans with an
unpaid principal balance totaling approximately $105.8 million, which mature in March 2012, that are collateralized by a land development project. The loans do not contain a pay rate 
118



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 3—Loans and Investments (Continued) 
of
interest, but four of the loans with an unpaid principal balance totaling approximately $96.5 million entitle the Company to a weighted average accrual rate of interest of approximately
9.60%. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company suspended the recording of the accrual rate of interest on these loans, as these loans were impaired and management deemed the collection of this
interest to be doubtful. The company has recorded cumulative allowances for loan losses of $43.7 million related to these loans as of December 31, 2011. Additionally, these loans were
not classified as non-performing as the borrower is in compliance with all of the terms and conditions of the loans. As of December 31, 2010, nine loans with a net carrying value of
approximately $25.6 million, net of related loan loss reserves of $54.2 million, were classified as non-performing for which income recognition had been suspended and all
nine loans had loan loss reserves. As of December 31, 2009, 13 loans with a net carrying value of approximately $110.8 million, net of related loan loss reserves of
$115.0 million, were classified as non-performing. The Company had previously established loan loss reserves on all of these loans. 
        A
summary of the Company's non-performing loans by asset class as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 




























 
 
As of December 31, 2011 
 
As of December 31, 2010 
 


Asset Class



 
Carrying
Value 
 
Less Than
90 Days
Past Due 
 
Greater
Than
90 Days
Past Due 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Less Than
90 Days
Past Due 
 
Greater
Than
90 Days
Past Due 
 


 Multi-family
 
$
14,328,862
 
$
1,392,325
 
$
12,936,537
 
$
41,236,389
 
$
1,363,097
 
$
39,873,292
 


 Office
 
 
14,948,138
 
 
6,506,663
 
 
8,441,475
 
 
9,806,298
 
 
—
 
 
9,806,298
 


 Land
 
 
24,999,972
 
 
—
 
 
24,999,972
 
 
24,999,972
 
 
—
 
 
24,999,972
 


 Hotel
 
 
3,671,507
 
 
—
 
 
3,671,507
 
 
3,671,507
 
 
—
 
 
3,671,507
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
57,948,479
 
$
7,898,988
 
$
50,049,491
 
$
79,714,166
 
$
1,363,097
 
$
78,351,069
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




119



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 3—Loans and Investments (Continued) 
        At
December 31, 2011, the Company did not have any loans contractually past due 90 days or more that are still accruing interest. During the year ended
December 31, 2011, the Company refinanced and/or modified 12 loans totaling $228.6 million, of which five loans totaling $37.1 million were considered by the Company to be
troubled debt restructurings. In addition, the Company had unfunded commitments totaling $0.1 million on modified loans which were considered troubled debt restructurings. 
        A
summary of loan modifications that the Company considered to be troubled debt restructurings by asset class were as follows: 

























 
 
For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2011 
 


Asset Class



 
Number
of Loans 
 
Original
Unpaid
Principal
Balance 
 
Original
Weighted
Average
Rate of
Interest 
 
Modified
Unpaid
Principal
Balance 
 
Modified
Weighted
Average
Rate of
Interest 
 


 Multi-family
 
 
5
 
$
37,063,749
 
 
5.91
%
$
29,222,682
 
 
5.63
%


 Land
 
 
6
 
 
108,335,376
 
 
8.78
%
 
108,335,376
 
 
8.78
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
11
 
$
145,399,125
 
 
8.05
%
$
137,558,058
 
 
8.11
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        There
were no loans which the Company considered the modifications to be troubled debt restructurings that were subsequently considered non-performing as of
December 31, 2011 and no additional loans were considered to be impaired due to the Company's troubled debt restructuring analysis for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011. These
loans were modified to increase the total recovery of the combined principal and interest from the loan. Any loan modification is predicated upon a goal of maximizing the collection of the loan. Loan
terms that have been modified have included, but are not limited to interest rate, maturity date and in certain cases, principal amount. 
 Note 4—Securities  

        The following is a summary of the Company's securities classified as available-for-sale at December 31, 2011: 




























 
 
Face
Value 
 
Amortized
Cost 
 
Beginning
Carrying
Value 
 
Amortization
of Premium 
 
Unrealized
Gain / (Loss) 
 
Estimated
Fair Value 
 


 Common equity securities
 
$
—
 
$
58,789
 
$
176,368
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
176,368
 


 Collateralized debt obligation (CDO) bond
 
 
10,000,000
 
 
1,000,000
 
 
1,000,000
 
 
—
 
 
1,000,000
 
 
2,000,000
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed security (CMBS)
 
 
2,100,000
 
 
2,100,000
 
 
2,122,050
 
 
(22,050
)
 
—
 
 
2,100,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total available-for-sale securities
 
$
12,100,000
 
$
3,158,789
 
$
3,298,418
 
$
(22,050
)
$
1,000,000
 
$
4,276,368
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




120



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 4—Securities (Continued) 
        The
following is a summary of the Company's securities classified as available-for-sale at December 31, 2010: 




























 
 
Face
Value 
 
Amortized
Cost 
 
Beginning
Carrying
Value 
 
Other-Than-
Temporary
Impairment 
 
Unrealized
Gain / (Loss) 
 
Estimated
Fair Value 
 


 Common equity securities
 
$
—
 
$
88,184
 
$
88,184
 
$
(29,395
)
$
117,579
 
$
176,368
 


 Collateralized debt obligation (CDO) bond
 
 
10,000,000
 
 
7,975,405
 
 
7,975,405
 
 
(6,975,405
)
 
—
 
 
1,000,000
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed security (CMBS)
 
 
2,100,000
 
 
2,122,050
 
 
2,122,050
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,122,050
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total available-for-sale securities
 
$
12,100,000
 
$
10,185,639
 
$
10,185,639
 
$
(7,004,800
)
$
117,579
 
$
3,298,418
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
following is a summary of the underlying credit rating of the Company's CDO bond and CMBS investment classified as available-for-sale at
December 31, 2011 and 2010: 




























 
 
At December 31, 2011 
 
At December 31, 2010 
 


Rating(1)



 
# 
 
Amortized
Cost 
 
Percent
of Total 
 
# 
 
Amortized
Cost 
 
Percent
of Total 
 


 BB-
 
 
-
 
$
—
 
 
—
 
 
1
 
$
7,975,405
 
 
79
%


 CCC-
 
 
2
 
 
3,100,000
 
 
100
%
 
1
 
 
2,122,050
 
 
21
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
2
 
$
3,100,000
 
 
100
%
 
2
 
$
10,097,455
 
 
100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Based
on the rating published by Standard & Poor's for each security. 

        The
Company owns 2,939,465 shares of common stock of Realty Finance Corporation, formerly CBRE Realty Finance, Inc., a commercial real estate specialty finance
company, which it purchased in 2007 for $16.7 million, and which had a fair value of $0.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, a net
unrealized gain of $0.1 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to these securities. 
        The
Company owns a CDO bond security, purchased at a discount in 2008 for $7.5 million, which bears interest at a spread of 30 basis points over LIBOR, has a stated maturity of
40.3 years, but has an estimated remaining life of 4.3 years based on the maturities of the underlying assets. As of the second quarter of 2010, the Company is no longer accreting income
on the security which had $2.0 million of original discount and a fair value of $2.0 million at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, an unrealized gain of
$1.0 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this security. 
        The
Company owns a CMBS investment, purchased at a premium in 2010 for $2.1 million, which is collateralized by a portfolio of hotel properties. The Company currently has two
mezzanine loans with a total carrying value before loan loss reserves of $30.0 million related to this portfolio. The CMBS investment bears interest at a spread of 89 basis points over LIBOR,
has a stated maturity of 8.5 years, but has an estimated life of six months based on the extended maturity of the underlying asset and a fair value of $2.1 million at December 31,
2011. 
121




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 4—Securities (Continued)  

        Available-for-sale securities are carried at their estimated fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The
company does not intend to sell its investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investments before recovery of its amortized cost basis, which may be
at maturity. The Company evaluates these securities periodically to determine whether a decline in their value is other-than-temporary, though such a determination is not
intended to indicate a permanent decline in value. The Company's evaluation is based on its assessment of cash flows which is supplemented by third-party research reports, internal review of the
underlying assets securing the investments, levels of subordination and the ratings of the securities and the underlying collateral. The Company's estimation of cash flows expected to be generated by
the securities portfolio is based upon an internal review of the underlying mortgage loans securing the investments both on an absolute basis and compared to the Company's initial underwriting for
each investment and efforts are supplemented by third party research reports, third party market assessments and dialogue with market participants. Management closely monitors market conditions on
which it bases such decisions. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the CDO bond security available-for-sale has been in a loss position as compared to its original
purchase price for more than twelve months. Based on the Company's analysis in 2010, the Company concluded that this CDO bond investment was other-than-temporarily impaired and
recorded a $7.0 million impairment charge in 2010 to the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations which was reclassified from an unrealized loss recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive loss due to a reclassification of the security from held-to-maturity to available-for-sale in 2010. During 2009, an
other-than-temporary impairment of $9.8 million was recognized upon the reclassification of two securities from held-to-maturity to
available-for-sale. During 2010 and 2009, the Company also concluded that the common equity securities were other-than-temporarily impaired based on a market price decrease for
more than twelve months and recorded a less than $0.1 million and $0.4 million impairment charge to the 2010 and 2009 Consolidated Statements of Operations, respectively. No impairment
was recorded on the Company's available-for-sale securities for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
        In
2010, the Company sold three investment grade commercial real estate CDO bonds with an aggregate face value of $44.7 million and an amortized cost of $40.4 million, for
$29.9 million, and four
CMBS investments, with an aggregate face value of $21.5 million and an amortized cost of $17.3 million, for $20.8 million, and recorded a net loss on sale of securities of
$7.0 million in its 2010 Consolidated Statement of Operations. Upon the sale of these securities, the Company reclassified $11.6 million of an $18.6 million net unrealized loss recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive loss due to a reclassification of securities from held-to-maturity to available-for-sale in 2010, into loss on sale
of securities based on the specific amounts recorded for each investment. 
        For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company amortized less than $0.1 million of premium into interest income from its CMBS investment while no discount was accreted
from its CDO bond investment. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company accreted approximately $0.8 million of discount into interest income from its CDO bond investments,
representing accretion on approximately $7.5 million of total original discount, and approximately $0.1 million of discounts into interest income from its CMBS investments. 
122



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 4—Securities (Continued) 
        The
following is a summary of the Company's securities classified as held-to-maturity at December 31, 2011: 

























 
 
Face
Value 
 
Amortized
Cost 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Unrealized
Gain / (Loss) 
 
Estimated
Fair Value 
 


 Residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS)
 
$
29,192,262
 
$
29,199,506
 
$
29,199,506
 
$
57,285
 
$
29,256,791
 


 Commercial mortgage-backed security (CMBS)
 
 
734,969
 
 
742,602
 
 
742,602
 
 
(5,179
)
 
737,423
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total securities held-to-maturity
 
$
29,927,231
 
$
29,942,108
 
$
29,942,108
 
$
52,106
 
$
29,994,214
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
Company had no securities classified as held-to-maturity at December 31, 2010. 
        The
following is a summary of the underlying credit ratings of the Company's RMBS and CMBS investments held-to-maturity at December 31, 2011: 



















 
 
At December 31, 2011 
 


Rating(1)



 
# 
 
Amortized
Cost 
 
Percent
of Total 
 


 AAA
 
 
2
 
$
817,810
 
 
3
%


 BB-
 
 
2
 
 
1,462,483
 
 
5
%


 NR
 
 
4
 
 
27,661,815
 
 
92
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
8
 
$
29,942,108
 
 
100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Based
on the rating published by Standard & Poor's for each security. NR stands for "not rated". 

        In
2011, the Company purchased four RMBS investments, at par, for $10.0 million, $15.0 million, $5.0 million and $3.0 million, respectively,
and three RMBS investments, at a premium, for $1.6 million, $1.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively, which are collateralized by portfolios of residential properties. During the year
ended December 31, 2011, the Company received total principal paydowns of $6.5 million, reducing the total carrying value of the RMBS investments to $29.2 million at
December 31, 2011. The RMBS investments bear interest at a weighted average fixed rate of 6.28%, have a weighted average stated maturity of 36.8 years, but have weighted average
estimated lives of 2.1 years based on the estimated maturity of the RMBS investments with approximately $10.8 million, $4.8 million and $13.6 million maturing in 2012, 2014
and 2015, respectively, and have a total fair value of $29.3 million at December 31, 2011. The RMBS investments were financed with a repurchase agreement with a financial institution for
a total of $30.0 million which finances 80% to 90% of the value of each individual investment. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid down the debt by
$3.9 million due to the principal paydowns received on the RMBS investments, reducing the total debt amount to $26.1 million at December 31, 2011. See
Note 7—"Debt Obligations" for further details. 
        The
Company purchased a CMBS investment, at par, in the fourth quarter of 2011 for $0.7 million, which is collateralized by a portfolio of commercial properties. The CMBS investment
bears interest at a fixed rate of 2.95%, has a stated maturity of 15.9 years, but has an estimated life of 
123



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 4—Securities (Continued) 
3.8 years
based on the extended maturity of the underlying assets and a fair value of $0.7 million at December 31, 2011. 
        Securities
held-to-maturity are carried at cost, net of unamortized premiums and discounts. The Company does not intend to sell its investments and it is not more
likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investments before recovery of its cost basis, which may be at maturity. The Company evaluates these securities periodically to determine
whether a decline in their value is other-than-temporary, though such a determination is not intended to indicate a permanent decline in value. The Company's evaluation is
based on its assessment of cash flows which is supplemented by third-party research reports, internal review of the underlying assets securing the investments, levels of subordination and the ratings
of the securities and the underlying collateral. The Company's estimation of cash flows expected to be generated by the securities portfolio is based upon an internal review of the underlying mortgage
loans
securing the investments both on an absolute basis and compared to the Company's initial underwriting for each investment and efforts are supplemented by third party research reports, third party
market assessments and dialogue with market participants. Management closely monitors market conditions on which it bases such decisions. As of December 31, 2011 no impairment was recorded on
the Company's securities held-to-maturity. 
        For
the year ended December 31, 2011, less than $0.1 million of premium was amortized from the Company's RMBS investments. 
        The
weighted average yield on the Company's CDO bond, CMBS and RMBS investments based on their face values was 2.47%, including the amortization of premium, for the year ended
December 31, 2011 and 3.34%, including the accretion of discount, for the year ended December 31, 2010. 
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates  

        As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had approximately $60.8 million and $65.8 million of investments in equity affiliates, respectively, which are described
below: 



















 
 
Investment in Equity
Affiliates at 
 
Unpaid Principal
Balance to Equity
Affiliates at 
 


Equity Affiliates



 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 
December 31,
2011 
 


 930 Flushing & 80 Evergreen
 
$
229,476
 
$
554,476
 
$
23,751,567
 


 450 West 33rd Street
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
50,000,000
 


 1107 Broadway
 
 
—
 
 
5,720,000
 
 
—
 


 Alpine Meadows
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 St. John's Development
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
25,000,000
 


 Lightstone Value Plus REIT L.P
 
 
55,988,409
 
 
55,988,409
 
 
—
 


 JT Prime
 
 
851,000
 
 
851,000
 
 
—
 


 West Shore Café
 
 
2,053,079
 
 
2,147,000
 
 
5,000,000
 


 Ritz-Carlton Club
 
 
750,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Lexford Portfolio
 
 
100
 
 
—
 
 
78,549,600
 


 Issuers of Junior Subordinated Notes
 
 
578,000
 
 
578,000
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
60,450,064
 
$
65,838,885
 
$
182,301,167
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




124



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates (Continued) 
        The
Company accounts for the 450 West 33rd Street and Lightstone Value Plus REIT L.P. investments under the cost method of accounting and the remaining
investments under the equity method. 
 930 Flushing & 80 Evergreen  
        In June 2003, ACM invested approximately $0.8 million in exchange for a 12.5% preferred interest in a joint venture that owns
and operates two commercial properties. The Company purchased this investment from ACM in August 2003. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had contributed an additional $1.2 million to
this joint venture. 
        The
Company had a $4.8 million bridge loan and a $3.5 million mezzanine loan outstanding to affiliated entities of the joint venture. The loans required monthly interest
payments based on one month LIBOR and matured in November 2006 and June 2006, respectively. The bridge loan was extended for two one-year periods and during the second quarter of 2008, the
Company was repaid in full. In addition, in August 2005, the joint venture refinanced one of these properties with a $25.0 million amortizing bridge loan provided by the Company. The loan matures in
April 2016, has a fixed rate of 6.45%, and has an outstanding principal balance of $23.8 million at December 31, 2011. Proceeds from this loan were used to pay off senior debt as well as
the Company's $3.5 million mezzanine loan. Excess proceeds were distributed to each of the members in accordance with the operating agreement of which the Company received $1.3 million,
which was recorded as a return of capital in 2005. During 2008, the Company received a $0.2 million return of capital from contribution made in 2007. In addition, during 2010, the Company
contributed an additional $0.1 million of capital, resulting in a balance of $0.6 million at December 31, 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recorded
$0.3 million of losses from the entity against the equity investment, which was also recorded in loss from equity affiliates in the Company's 2011 Consolidated Statement of Operations, reducing
the balance of the investment to $0.2 million at December 31, 2011. 
 450 West 33rd Street  
        In May 2007, the Company, as part of an investor group for the 450 West 33rd Street partnership, transferred control of the
underlying property (an office building) to Broadway Partners for a value of approximately $664.0 million. The investor group, on a pro-rata basis, retained an approximate 2%
ownership interest in the property and 50% of the property's air rights which resulted in the Company retaining an investment in equity affiliates of approximately $1.1 million related to its
29% interest in the 2% retained ownership. In accordance with this transaction, the joint venture members agreed to guarantee $258.1 million of the $517.0 million of new debt outstanding
on the property. The guarantee expires at the earlier of maturity or prepayment of the debt and was allocated to the members in accordance with their ownership percentages. The guarantee is callable,
on a pro-rata basis, if the market value of the property declines below the $258.1 million of guaranteed debt. The Company's portion of the guarantee is $76.3 million. The
transaction was structured to provide for a tax deferral for an estimated period of seven years. The Company recorded deferred revenue of approximately $77.1 million as a result of the
guarantee on a portion of the new debt, and $19.0 million as prepaid management fees related to the incentive compensation management fee on the deferred revenue recognized on the transfer of
control of the 450 West 33rd Street property. See Note 17—"Management Agreement" for further details.
In July 2007, the Company purchased a $50.0 million mezzanine loan secured by this property which has a maturity of July 2012 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 4.35%. In 
125



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates (Continued) 
April
2011, the Company entered into a non-recourse junior loan participation in the amount of $32.0 million on the $50.0 million mezzanine loan. The loan was participated out to a
subordinate lender at a discount and the Company received $28.8 million of proceeds. The Company also has the right to sell its $18.0 million senior participation to the subordinate
lender, at face value, in the event of default or if the loan is not repaid by July 9, 2012. See Note 7—"Debt Obligations" for further details. Additionally, current
accounting guidance requires these investments to be evaluated periodically to determine whether a decline in their value is other-than-temporary, though it is not intended to
indicate a permanent decline in value. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of $1.1 million for the remaining amount of this investment in loss
from equity affiliates in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, reducing the balance of the investment to $0 as of December 31, 2010. 
 1107 Broadway  
        In 2005, the Company invested $10.0 million in exchange for a 20% ownership interest in 200 Fifth LLC, which owned two
properties in New York City. In May 2007, the Company, as part of an investor group in the 200 Fifth LLC holding partnership, sold the 200 Fifth Avenue property for net proceeds of
approximately $450.0 million and the investor group, on a pro-rata basis, retained an adjacent building located at 1107 Broadway. The partnership used the net proceeds from the sale
to repay the $402.5 million outstanding debt on both the 200 Fifth Avenue and the 1107 Broadway properties, and used the remaining proceeds as a return of invested capital to the partners. As a
result of the transaction, the Company received $9.5 million in proceeds as a return on invested capital and was repaid in full on its $137.0 million mezzanine debt, including all
applicable interest. 
        In
October 2007, the partnership sold 50% of its economic interest in the 1107 Broadway property. The partnership was recapitalized with financing of approximately $343.0 million,
of which approximately $203.0 million was funded with the unfunded portion to be used to develop the property. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $39.0 million from this
transaction as a return on invested capital. The investor group, on a pro-rata basis, retained a 50% economic interest in the property, representing approximately $29.0 million of
capital. The Company recorded a $5.7 million investment in equity affiliate, a deferred gain of $5.7 million and a $2.2 million deferred tax asset, related to its 10% retained
interest in the 1107 Broadway property. In 2010, the Company received a tax
refund of $0.3 million and recorded a $1.9 million valuation allowance against the remaining deferred tax asset. 
        In
September 2011, the partnership's interest in the property was sold by the partnership and the Company received $4.5 million related to its interest. As a result, the Company
eliminated the investment of $5.7 million as well as the $5.7 million deferred gain related to this asset, and recorded a gain in income from equity affiliates of $3.9 million as
well as other liabilities of $0.5 million for estimated additional costs to be incurred in connection with the closing of the transaction. As a result of the recognition of the deferred gain on
the sale, the deferred tax asset was recognized and the related valuation allowance was reversed. No deferred tax asset or valuation allowance remains at December 31, 2011 related to this
asset. 
 Alpine Meadows  
        In July 2007, the Company invested $13.2 million in exchange for a 39% profits interest with an 18% preferred return in the
Alpine Meadows ski resort, which consists of approximately 2,163 total 
126



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates (Continued) 
acres
in northwestern Lake Tahoe, California. The Company's invested capital represented 65% of the total equity of the transaction and the Company would be allocated 65% of the profits and losses.
The Company also provided a $30.5 million first mortgage loan which was extended during 2009 to September 2012 and bore a fixed rate of interest. For the years ended December 31, 2009
and 2008, the Company recorded net income of $1.6 million and $3.1 million in losses from this equity investment, respectively. This amount reflects Arbor's portion of the joint
venture's income and losses, net of depreciation expense, and was recorded in income (loss) from equity affiliates and as an increase or reduction to the Company's investment in equity affiliates on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Current accounting guidance requires these investments to be evaluated periodically to determine whether a decline in their value is
other-than-temporary, though it is not intended to indicate a permanent decline in value. In the second quarter of 2009, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment
of $11.7 million for the remaining amount of this investment in loss from equity affiliates in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, reducing the balance of the investment to $0
at December 31, 2009. As a result, no income or loss was recorded for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        In
the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company decreased the invested capital by $3.0 million to $10.2 million, as well as providing a $0.5 million revolver loan. As a result
of this modification, the Company's
profits interest was reduced from 39.0% to 35.4% and the invested capital and allocated percentage of profits and losses was reduced from 65.0% to 58.9%. The Company was not required to make
additional capital contributions or fund the losses of the entity. 
        In
the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company received approximately $28.3 million of net proceeds and the title to a parcel of land for the satisfaction of the Company's
$31.0 million Alpine Meadows loan and corresponding equity investment. The Company recorded the land at its estimated fair value of $1.9 million in other assets, other assets of
$1.2 million and other liabilities of $0.4 million. 
        Interest
income from the first mortgage loan amounted to $0.9 million, $1.1 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. 
 St. John's Development  
        In December 2006, the Company originated a $25.0 million bridge loan with a maturity date in September 2007 with two three-month
extensions that bore interest at a fixed rate of 12%. The loan is secured by 20.5 acres of usable land and 2.3 acres of submerged land located on the banks of the St. John's River in downtown
Jacksonville, Florida and is currently zoned for the development of up to 60 dwellings per acre. In October 2007, the borrower sold the property to an investor group, in which the Company has a 50%
non-controlling interest, for $25.0 million. The investor group assumed the $25.0 million mortgage with a new maturity date of October 2009 and had a change in interest rate
to LIBOR plus 6.48%, with a LIBOR floor of 4.50%. In connection with this transaction, the Company contributed $0.5 million to cover other operational costs of acquiring and maintaining the
property. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the mortgage loan was modified to extend the maturity date to January 2010 and modified to change the interest rate to LIBOR plus 6.48% with no LIBOR
floor. During the first quarter of 2010, the mortgage loan was modified to an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.00% and, as of June 2010, was in default. 
127




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates (Continued)  

        The managing member of the investor group is an experienced real estate developer who retains a 50% controlling interest in the partnership and funded a $2.9 million interest
reserve for the first year. The Company was required to contribute $2.9 million to fund the interest reserve for the second year and made an additional capital contribution of
$0.1 million during 2008. Interest received on the $25.0 million loan was recorded as a return of capital and reduction of the Company's equity investment and the loan has a
$15.0 million allowance for loan loss recorded against it at December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company received $1.6 million of such interest,
reducing the Company's investment to $1.9 million. Current accounting guidance requires the Company's investments in equity affiliates to be evaluated periodically to determine whether a
decline in their value is other-than-temporary, though it is not intended to indicate a permanent decline in value. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company recorded an
other-than-temporary impairment of $1.9 million for the remaining amount of the investment which was recorded in loss from equity affiliates in the Company's 2009
Consolidated Statement of Operations. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company was able to recover $0.6 million of the loss reducing the balance to $0.1 million at December 31,
2009. In the first quarter of 2010, the Company contributed $0.4 million to this investment and recovered $0.5 million reducing the balance of the investment to $0 at December 31,
2011. The Company is not required to make additional capital contributions or fund the losses of the entity and accounts for this investment under the equity method. 
 Lightstone Value Plus REIT L.P. / Prime Outlets / JT Prime  
        In December 2003, the Company invested approximately $2.1 million in exchange for a 50% non-controlling interest in
an unconsolidated joint venture, JT Prime, which owned 15% of Prime Outlets Member, LLC ("POM"), a real estate holding company that owns and operates a portfolio of factory outlet shopping
centers. The Company accounted for this investment under the equity method. Additionally, the Company owned a 16.67% carried profits interest through a consolidated entity which had a 25% interest in
POM with a third party member owning the remaining 8.33%. 
        In
2007, the Company received distributions from POM of $16.2 million as a result of excess proceeds from refinancing and sales activities on certain assets in the POM portfolio.
The excess proceeds were distributed to each of the partners in accordance with POM's operating agreement. The Company recorded $11.2 million as interest income, representing the portion
attributable to the 16.7% carried profits interest, and $5.0 million as income from equity affiliates, representing the portion attributable to the 7.5% equity interest. 
        In
June 2008, the Company entered into an agreement ("the agreement") to transfer its 16.67% interest in POM, at a value of approximately $36.7 million, in exchange for preferred
and common operating partnership units of Lightstone Value Plus REIT L.P. 
        In
connection with the agreement, the Company borrowed from Lightstone Value Plus Real Estate Investment Trust, Inc. approximately $33.0 million, which was initially
secured by its 16.67% interest in POM, has an eight year term, and bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.00% with payment of the interest deferred until the closing of the transaction. As a result,
during the second quarter of 2008, the Company recorded approximately $33.0 million of cash, $49.5 million of debt related to the proceeds received from the loan secured by the
consolidated entity's 25% interest in POM, which was recorded in notes payable, a $16.5 million receivable from the third party member share of the consolidated 
128



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates (Continued) 
entity's
25% interest, which was recorded in other assets, and a deferred expense related to the incentive management fee of approximately $7.3 million. 
        In
addition, the Company prepaid the $7.3 million in incentive management fees to its manager in 2008 related to this transaction, which was paid in 355,903 shares of Arbor Realty
Trust, Inc. common stock and $4.1 million in cash. In accordance with the amended management agreement, installments of the annual incentive fee are subject to potential reconciliation
at the end of the fiscal year. Since no incentive fee was earned for 2009, the prepaid management fee was to be paid back in installments of 25% due by December 31, 2010 and 75% due by
June 30, 2012, with an option to make payment in both cash and Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. common stock provided that at least 50% of the total payment was made in cash, and was to be
offset against any future incentive management fees or success-based payments earned by the Company's manager prior to June 30, 2012. On December 16, 2010, ACM surrendered 701,197 shares
of the Company's common stock in payment of $3.6 million, or a 50% portion of the $7.3 million related party receivable. The remaining $3.6 million was offset against the 2010
incentive management fee as of December 31, 2010. See Note 17—"Management Agreement" for further details. 
        In
the fourth quarter 2008, the Company received a $1.0 million distribution from POM related to its 24.17% equity and profits interest, the result of excess proceeds from the
operation of the business. Of the distribution received by the Company, $1.0 million was recorded as interest income, representing the distribution received from the 25% profits interest,
$0.3 million was recorded as net income attributable to noncontrolling interest relating to a third party member's 8.33% minority interest share of the profits interest and $0.3 million
was recorded as income netted in loss from equity affiliates, representing the portion received from the Company's 7.5% equity interest. In accordance with the agreement, $0.7 million of the
distribution relating to the 16.67% profits interest was used to pay down a portion of the $33.0 million debt and reduced the value of the Company's interest when exchanged for preferred and
common operating partnership units at closing, thereby reducing the Company's gain. 
        In
March 2009, the Company exchanged its 16.67% interest in POM for approximately $37.3 million of preferred and common operating partnership units in Lightstone Value Plus
REIT L.P. and the $33.4 million loan is now secured by these preferred and common operating partnership units. The Company accounts for its Lightstone Value Plus REIT L.P.
investment under the cost method. In June 2013, the preferred units may be redeemed by Lightstone Value Plus REIT L.P. for cash and the loan would become due upon such redemption. The preferred
operating partnership units yield 4.63% and the loan bears interest at a rate of 4.00%. The Company retained its 7.5% equity interest in POM. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, the Company recorded $2.7 million, $2.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively, of dividends from the preferred and common operating partnership units which were reflected
in interest income in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
        Through
the consolidated entity that owned the 16.67% interest, the Company recorded in its first quarter 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements an investment of approximately
$56.0 million for the preferred and common operating partnership units, gain on exchange of profits interest of approximately $56.0 million, net income attributable to noncontrolling
interest of approximately $18.7 million related to the third party member's portion of income recorded, noncontrolling interest 
129



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates (Continued) 
due
to the third party member of approximately $2.1 million and a reduction of a $16.5 million receivable from the third party member which was previously recorded in other assets. The
gain of $56.0 million reflects the fair value of the investment in preferred and operating partnership units received in exchange for the 16.67% profits interest. The Company's profits interest
had no cost basis at the time of the exchange. 
        The
Company recorded a less than $0.1 million noncontrolling interest in consolidated entity on its Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2008. Due to the POM
transaction in March 2009, the Company recorded an additional $18.7 million of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest holder and a distribution to the noncontrolling interest of
$16.6 million, resulting in a balance of noncontrolling interest in consolidated entity of $1.9 million on its Consolidated Balance Sheet at
December 31, 2009. Noncontrolling interest in consolidated entity was $1.9 million and $2.0 million on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively 
        In
August 2009, the Company exchanged its remaining 7.5% equity interest in POM for preferred and common operating partnership units of Lightstone Value Plus REIT L.P. JT Prime
received preferred and common operating units valued at approximately $17.0 million, as well as additional cash consideration of approximately $4.4 million. As there was no remaining
basis in the interest in POM held by the unconsolidated joint venture, the unconsolidated joint venture recorded a gain of $21.4 million equal to the value of the operating partnership units
and cash received. In connection with this transaction, JT Prime borrowed approximately $15.3 million from Lightstone Value Plus Real Estate Investment Trust, Inc., which is secured by
the preferred and common operating partnership units and has an eight-year term. In August 2014, the preferred units may be redeemed by Lightstone Value Plus REIT L.P. for cash and
the loan would become due upon such redemption. The preferred operating partnership units yield 4.63% and the loan bears interest at a rate of 4.00%. The unconsolidated joint venture recorded a
nominal amount of dividends from the preferred and common operating partnership units and interest expense related to the note. The Company accounts for its investment in JT Prime under the equity
method. As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded income from equity affiliates of $10.7 million, representing the Company's share of the net income recorded by the unconsolidated
joint venture, in its third quarter 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company received distributions totaling $9.9 million, representing its share of the proceeds from the note and
additional consideration received from Lightstone by the unconsolidated joint venture. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of the Company's investment in JT Prime was
$0.9 million. The Company has no continuing involvement with POM after the exchange. 
 West Shore Café  
        In August 2010, the Company invested approximately $2.1 million in exchange for a 50% non-controlling interest with
a 20% preferred return subject to certain conditions in the West Shore Café, a restaurant / inn on an approximate 12,463 square foot lakefront property in Lake Tahoe, California. The
Company also provided a $5.5 million first mortgage loan, $5.0 million of which was funded as of December 31, 2011, that matures in August 2013 and bears interest at a yield of
10.5%. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company received distributions of approximately $0.1 million related to the preferred return, which were recorded as a return of
investment. 
130



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates (Continued) 
 Ritz-Carlton Club  
        In October 2011, the Company invested approximately $0.8 million in exchange for a 19.93% non-controlling interest
with a 10.00% return subject to certain conditions in the Ritz-Carlton Club, a condominium project in Lake Tahoe, California. 
 Lexford Portfolio  
        In December 2011, the Company completed a restructuring of a $67.6 million preferred equity loan on the Lexford Portfolio
("Lexford"), which is a portfolio of multi-family assets. The Company, along with a consortium of independent outside investors, made an additional preferred equity investment of $25.0 million
in Lexford, of which the Company held a $10.9 million interest at December 31, 2011. The original preferred equity investment now bears a fixed rate of interest of 2.36%, revised from an
original rate of LIBOR plus 5.00% (the loan was paying a modified rate of LIBOR plus 1.65% at the time of the new investment). The original preferred equity investment matures in June 2020. The new
preferred equity investment has a fixed interest rate of 12% and also matures in June 2020. 
        The
Company, along with the same outside investors, also made a $0.1 million equity investment into Lexford, of which the Company holds a $44,000 noncontrolling interest, and does
not have the power to control the significant activities of the entity. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recorded losses from the entity against the equity investment, reducing the
balance to zero at December 31, 2011. The Company records this investment under the equity method of accounting. In addition, under the terms of the restructuring, Lexford's first mortgage
lender required a change of property manager for the underlying assets. The new management company is an affiliate of Mr. Ivan Kaufman, and has a contract with the new entity for
7.5 years and will be entitled to 4.75% of gross revenues of the underlying properties, along with the potential to share in the proceeds of a sale or refinancing of the debt should the
management company remain engaged by the new entity at the time of such capital event. 
 Issuance of Junior Subordinated Notes  
        At December 31, 2008, the Company had invested a total of $8.3 million for 100% of the common shares of nine affiliate
entities of the Company, which were formed to facilitate the issuance of $276.1 million of junior subordinated notes. These entities pay dividends on
both the common shares and preferred securities on a quarterly basis at fixed and variable rates based on three-month LIBOR. 
        In
March 2009, the Company purchased from its manager, ACM, approximately $9.4 million of junior subordinated notes originally issued by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company's
operating partnership for $1.3 million. In addition, in May 2009, the Company exchanged $247.1 million of its outstanding trust preferred securities, consisting of $239.7 million
of junior subordinated notes issued to third party investors and $7.4 million of common equity issued to the Company, which were recorded in investment in equity affiliates, in exchange for
$268.4 million of newly issued unsecured junior subordinated notes. As a result of these transactions, the Company retired its $7.7 million of common equity and corresponding trust
preferred securities reducing its investment in these entities to $0.6 million during the second quarter of 2009. In July 2009, the Company restructured its remaining 
131



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates (Continued) 
$18.7 million
of trust preferred securities that were not previously exchanged, however, the transaction did not retire the remaining common equity of $0.6 million, which remains as of
December 31, 2011. See Note 7—"Debt Obligations" for further information relating to these transactions. 
 Summarized Financial Information  
        The condensed combined balance sheets for the Company's unconsolidated investments in equity affiliates accounted for under the equity
method at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows (amounts in thousands): 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


Condensed Combined Balance Sheets



 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
1,832
 
$
4,061
 


 Real estate assets
 
 
706,130
 
 
351,111
 


 Other assets
 
 
39,807
 
 
15,060
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
747,769
 
$
370,232
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Notes payable
 
$
734,140
 
$
311,508
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
25,437
 
 
14,298
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
759,577
 
 
325,806
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Shareholders' equity Arbor(1)
 
 
3,884
 
 
9,272
 


 Shareholders' (deficit) equity
 
 
(15,692
)
 
35,154
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total shareholders' (deficit) equity
 
 
(11,808
)
 
44,426
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and deficit
 
$
747,769
 
$
370,232
 


 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Combined
with $56.0 million of cost method investments and $0.6 million of equity relating to the issuance of junior subordinated notes,
equals $60.5 million and $65.8 million of investment in equity affiliates, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 

132



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 5—Investment in Equity Affiliates (Continued) 
        The
condensed combined statements of operations for the Company's unconsolidated investments in equity affiliates accounted for under the equity method for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, are as follows (amounts in thousands): 



















 
 
For the Year Ended 
 


Statements of Operations:



 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Revenue:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Rental income
 
$
10,626
 
$
3,843
 
$
3,242
 


 Interest income
 
 
814
 
 
817
 
 
21,755
 


 Operating income
 
 
13,299
 
 
17,249
 
 
14,888
 


 Reimbursement income
 
 
461
 
 
47
 
 
32
 


 Other income
 
 
3,268
 
 
—
 
 
2
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total revenues
 
 
28,468
 
 
21,956
 
 
39,919
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
16,749
 
 
15,335
 
 
12,642
 


 Interest expense
 
 
6,944
 
 
4,118
 
 
3,577
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
2,725
 
 
3,697
 
 
4,801
 


 Other expenses
 
 
619
 
 
418
 
 
1,591
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
27,037
 
 
23,568
 
 
22,611
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
$
1,431
 
$
(1,612
)
$
17,308
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Arbor's Share of net income (loss)
 
$
(218
)(1)
$
(123
)(2)
$
(439
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Combined
with a $3.9 million gain on the sale of an equity method investment, equals $3.7 million of income from equity affiliates for the
year ended December 31, 2011.
(2)Combined
with a $1.1 million impairment of a cost method investment, equals $1.3 million of loss from equity affiliates for the year ended
December 31, 2010. 

 Note 6—Real Estate Owned and Held-For-Sale  
 Real Estate Owned  
        The Company had a $29.8 million loan secured by a portfolio of multifamily assets in various locations of the United States that
had a maturity date of June 2010 and a
weighted average interest rate of approximately 4.26%. In prior years, the Company established an $18.4 million provision for loan loss related to this portfolio reducing its carrying value to
$11.4 million as of December 31, 2010. In March 2011, the Company purchased the portfolio of multifamily assets (the "Multifamily Portfolio") securing this loan out of bankruptcy and
assumed a $55.4 million first mortgage loan secured by the portfolio of assets. As of the date of this transaction, as well as at December 31, 2010, the loan was past due and
non-performing. The Company recorded this transaction as real estate owned in its first quarter 2011 Consolidated Financial Statements at a fair value of $65.3 million and the
carrying value of the loan represented the fair value of the underlying collateral at the time of the transfer. For the first quarter of 2011, the Company did not record any property operating income
or 
133



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 6—Real Estate Owned and Held-For-Sale (Continued) 
expenses
from this portfolio because ownership did not pass to the Company until the end of the quarter and the Company believes that any operating activity that occurred was immaterial to the
Company's interim Consolidated Financial Statements. In the second quarter of 2011, one of the properties in the Multifamily Portfolio was sold to a third party for $1.6 million and the
proceeds were used to pay down the first lien mortgage. No gain or loss was recorded on the transaction as the asset was sold for its historical cost basis. For the year ended December 31,
2011, the Company recorded property operating income of $7.2 million, property operating expense of $7.1 million, which included $1.1 million of interest expense, and depreciation
of $2.4 million. At December 31, 2011, this investment's balance sheet was comprised of land, building and an intangible asset, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, totaling
approximately $62.5 million, cash of $0.5 million, restricted cash of $1.2 million due to a first mortgage escrow requirement, other liabilities of $1.1 million and a
mortgage note payable of $53.8 million. The Company will finalize the purchase price allocation within one year of the acquisition date. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, the Company's seven multifamily properties classified as real estate owned had weighted average occupancy rates of approximately 79%. 
        The
Company had an $85.0 million loan secured by a portfolio of six hotel assets in Florida that had a maturity date of July 2014 and a weighted average interest rate of
approximately 3.75%. During 2010, the Company established a $13.4 million provision for loan loss related to this portfolio reducing its carrying value to $71.6 million as of
December 31, 2010. In February 2011, the portfolio of hotel assets (the "Hotel Portfolio") securing this loan were transferred to the Company by the owner, a creditor trust. As of the date of
this transaction, as well as at December 31, 2010, the loan was contractually current. The Company recorded this transaction as real estate owned in its first quarter 2011 Consolidated
Financial Statements at a fair value of $67.3 million and the carrying value of the loan represented the fair value of the underlying collateral at the time of the transfer. For the year ended
December 31, 2011, the Company recorded property operating income of $16.9 million, property operating expense of $15.0 million, and depreciation of $2.8 million. The
operating results of the Hotel Portfolio are seasonal with the majority of revenues earned in the first two quarters of the calendar year. At December 31, 2011, this investment's balance sheet
was comprised of land, building, net of accumulated depreciation, totaling approximately $65.9 million, cash of $0.5 million, restricted cash of
$0.7 million due to an escrow requirement, other assets of $1.8 million, receivable from related party of $0.4 million and other liabilities of $3.3 million. The Company
will finalize the purchase price allocation within one year of the acquisition date. 
        For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company's six hotel properties classified as real estate owned had weighted average occupancy rates of approximately 46%. 
 Real Estate Held-For-Sale  
        The Company had a $5.6 million junior participating interest in a first mortgage loan secured by an apartment building in
Tucson, Arizona that had a maturity date of July 2012 and bore interest at a fixed rate of 10%. During 2009, the Company established a $5.6 million provision for loan loss related to this
property equal to the carrying value of the loan and in the second quarter of 2010, the Company purchased the property securing this loan by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure and
assumed the $20.8 million interest in a first mortgage loan. The Company recorded this transaction as real estate 
134



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 6—Real Estate Owned and Held-For-Sale (Continued) 
owned
in its Consolidated Financial Statements at a fair value of $20.8 million and the carrying value of the loan represented the fair value of the underlying collateral at the time of the
transfer. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company entered into negotiations to sell the property to a third party at which time it was determined that the property met the
held-for-sale requirements pursuant to the accounting guidance. The Company will continue to receive cash flows from this property until a sale is completed within one year. As
a result, the Company reclassified this investment from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale at a value of $19.4 million and reclassified property operating
income and expenses and impairment loss for current and prior periods to discontinued operations in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, discontinued operations have not been
segregated in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, loss from discontinued operations consisted of property operating income of
$2.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively, property operating expense of $2.4 million and $2.0 million, respectively, which included $1.3 million and $1.0 million,
respectively, of interest expense, and depreciation of $0.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011, this investment's balance sheet was comprised of land and
building, net of accumulated depreciation and allowances, totaling approximately $19.4 million, cash of $0.1 million, other assets of $0.6 million, mortgage note payable of
$20.8 million and other liabilities of $0.3 million. 
        The
Company had a $4.0 million bridge loan secured by a hotel located in St. Louis, Missouri that matured in 2009 and bore interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 5.00%.
In April 2009, the borrower delivered a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure to the Company. As a result, during the second quarter of 2009 the Company recorded this investment on its
Consolidated Balance Sheet as real estate owned at a fair value of $2.9 million. The carrying value represented the fair value of the underlying collateral at the time of the transfer. During
the second quarter of 2011, through site visits and discussion with market participants, the Company determined that the asset exhibited indicators of impairment and performed an impairment analysis.
As a result of the impairment analysis based on the indicators of value from the market participants, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $0.8 million in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations. During the third quarter of 2011, the Company entered into negotiations to sell the property to a third party at which time it was determined that the property met the
held-for-sale requirements pursuant to the accounting guidance. As a result, the Company reclassified this investment from real estate owned to real estate
held-for-sale at a value of $1.9 million and reclassified property operating income and expenses and impairment loss for current and prior periods to discontinued
operations in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, discontinued operations have not been segregated in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In the fourth
quarter of 2011, the Company recorded an additional impairment loss of $0.7 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, reducing the carrying value of the investment to $1.2 million at
December 31, 2011. The Company will continue to receive cash flows from this property until a sale is completed within one year. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
loss from discontinued operations consisted of property operating income of $0.3 million, $0.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, property operating expense of
$1.0 million, $1.5 million and $1.2 million, respectively, and depreciation of less than $0.1 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011, this investment's balance
sheet was comprised of land and building, net of accumulated depreciation and allowances totaling approximately $1.2 million, cash of $0.3 million, other assets of $0.1 million
and other liabilities of $0.8 million. 
135



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 6—Real Estate Owned and Held-For-Sale (Continued) 
        The
Company had a $9.9 million bridge loan secured by a motel located in Long Beach, California that matured in 2008 and bore interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 4.00%.
During 2008 and 2009, the Company recorded a $4.3 million provision for loan loss related to this property reducing the carrying amount to $5.6 million. In August 2009, the Company was
the winning bidder at a foreclosure sale of the property securing this loan which was recorded as real estate owned. The carrying value represented the then fair value of the underlying collateral at
the time of the sale. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company agreed to sell the property to a third party at which time it was determined that the property met the
held-for-sale requirements pursuant to the accounting guidance. As a result, the Company reclassified this investment from real estate owned to real estate
held-for-sale at a value of $5.5 million and reclassified property operating income and expenses for current and prior periods to discontinued operations in the
Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, discontinued operations have not been segregated in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. For the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, loss from discontinued operations consisted of property operating income of $0.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively, property operating expense of
$0.8 million and $0.2 million, respectively, and depreciation of less than $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The Company sold the property to the third party receiving
net proceeds of approximately $6.8 million and
recording a gain of $1.3 million to income from discontinued operations in its Consolidated Statement of Operations in October 2010. 
        The
Company had a $5.0 million mezzanine loan secured by an office building located in Indianapolis, Indiana that was scheduled to mature in June 2012 and bore interest at a fixed
rate of 10.72%. During the first quarter of 2008, the Company established a $1.5 million provision for loan loss related to this property reducing the carrying value to $3.5 million at
March 31, 2008. In April 2008, the Company was the winning bidder at a UCC foreclosure sale of the entity which owns the equity interest in the property securing this loan, subject to a
$41.4 million first mortgage on the property. As a result, during the second quarter of 2008, the Company recorded this investment on its Consolidated Balance Sheet as real estate owned at fair
value, which included the Company's $3.5 million carrying value of the mezzanine loan and the $41.4 million first lien mortgage note payable. During the third quarter of 2009, the
Company mutually agreed with a first mortgage lender to appoint a receiver to operate the property and the Company is working to assist in the transfer of title to the first mortgage lender. As a
result, the Company reclassified this investment from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale at a fair value of $41.4 million, reclassified property operating
income and expenses for current and prior periods to discontinued operations in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, and recorded an impairment loss of $4.9 million in 2009. The
Company had originally planned to transfer the property to the first mortgage lender within one year of the date of its designation as held-for-sale, however, due to
circumstances beyond the Company's control, the transfer has not been completed within the one year time frame. The Company expects the transfer to be completed in the second quarter of 2012. Based on
the facts and circumstances related to this property, the Company will continue to account for this investment as real estate held-for-sale. As of December 31, 2011,
this real estate held-for-sale investment consisted of land and building, net of accumulated depreciation of approximately $41.4 million. At December 31, 2011,
the Company also had a mortgage note payable held-for-sale of $41.4 million and other liabilities of $1.2 million. The Company did not record interest expense
related to the note payable, as the interest expense is non-recourse and the Company is in the process of cooperating with the receiver and the first lien 
136



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 6—Real Estate Owned and Held-For-Sale (Continued) 
holder
in order for the first lien holder to take title to the office building. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, and since appointment in 2009, the receiver's issued financial
statements reported net income for the office building investment held-for-sale. The Company believes these amounts are not realizable at this time and, as such, did not record
any income or loss on this held-for-sale investment. For the year ended December 31, 2009, loss from discontinued operations consisted of property operating income of
$3.3 million, property operating expense of $3.0 million, depreciation of $0.7 million, and an impairment loss of $4.9 million. 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations  

        The Company utilizes a repurchase agreement, a warehouse credit facility, collateralized debt obligations, junior subordinated notes, a note payable, loan participations and mortgage
notes payable to finance certain of its loans and investments. Borrowings underlying these arrangements are primarily secured by a significant amount of the Company's loans and investments. 
 Repurchase Agreements and Credit Facilities  
        The following table outlines borrowings under the Company's repurchase agreements and credit facilities as of December 31, 2011
and 2010: 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Debt
Carrying
Value 
 
Collateral
Carrying
Value 
 
Debt
Carrying
Value 
 
Collateral
Carrying
Value 
 


 Repurchase agreement, financial institution, rolling monthly term, interest is variable based on one-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was
1.69%
 
$
26,105,000
 
$
29,192,267
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 Repurchase agreement, financial institution, expiration June 2011, interest was variable based on one-month LIBOR; the weighted average
note rate was 2.80%
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

990,997
 
 

523,938
 


 Warehousing credit facility, financial institution, $50.0 million committed line, expiration July 2013, interest is variable based
on one-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 3.09%
 
 

50,000,000
 
 

70,192,000
 
 

—
 
 

—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total repurchase agreements and credit facilities
 
$
76,105,000
 
$
99,384,267
 
$
990,997
 
$
523,938
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the weighted average note rate for the Company's repurchase agreements and credit facilities was 2.61% and 2.80%, respectively. There were no
interest rate swaps on these facilities at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        During
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company financed the purchase of seven RMBS investments with a repurchase agreement with a financial institution for a total of
$30.0 million. During 
137



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 
the
year ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid down the debt by a total of $3.9 million due to principal paydowns received on the RMBS investments, reducing the total debt amount to
$26.1 million at December 31, 2011. See Note 4—"Securities" for further details. The facility finances 80% to 90% of the value of each individual investment, has a
rolling monthly term, and bears interest at a rate of 125 to 150 basis points over LIBOR. The facility also includes a minimum net worth covenant of $100.0 million and the outstanding balance
reflects the seven investments currently financed in the facility. 
        In
July 2011, the Company entered into a two year, $50.0 million warehouse facility with a financial institution to finance first mortgage loans on multifamily properties. The
facility bears interest at a rate of 275 basis points over LIBOR, required a 1.00% commitment fee upon closing, matures in July 2013 with a one year extension option that requires two 5% paydowns and
has warehousing and non-use fees. The facility also has a maximum advance rate of 75% and contains several restrictions including full repayment of an advance if a loan becomes
60 days past due, is in default or is written down by the Company. The facility also includes various financial covenants including a minimum liquidity requirement of $20.0 million,
minimum tangible net worth which includes junior subordinated notes as equity of $150.0 million, maximum total liabilities less subordinate debt of $2.0 billion, as well as certain other
debt service coverage ratios and debt to equity ratios. The facility also has a compensating balance requirement of $50.0 million to be maintained by the Company and its affiliates. At
December 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of this facility was $50.0 million. 
        The
Company also had a repurchase agreement that bore interest at 250 basis points over LIBOR. In June 2009, the Company amended this facility extending the maturity to June 2010, with a
one year extension option. In June 2010, the Company exercised the option, extending the maturity to June 2011. In addition, the amendment included the removal of all financial covenants and a
reduction of the committed amount reflecting the one asset financed in the facility. In June 2011, the Company repaid the facility in full. 
138




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued)  
 Collateralized Debt Obligations  
        The following table outlines borrowings and the corresponding collateral under the Company's collateralized debt obligations as of
December 31, 2011: 





































 
 
 
 
 
 
Collateral 
 
 
 


 
 
Debt 
 
Loans 
 
Securities 
 
Cash 
 
 
 


(Amounts in thousands)
 
Face
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Unpaid
Principal(1) 
 
Carrying
Value(1) 
 
Face
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Fair
Value(2) 
 
Restricted
Cash(3) 
 
Collateral
At-Risk(4) 
 


 CDO I—Issued four investment grade tranches January 19, 2005. Reinvestment period through April 2009. Stated maturity date of February 2040.
Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 4.49%
 
$
160,435,201
 
$
166,513,982
 
$
329,771,834
 
$
267,636,713
 
$
734,969
 
$
742,602
 
$
737,423
 
$
22,136
 
$
152,303,041
 


 CDO II—Issued nine investment grade tranches January 11, 2006. Reinvestment period through April 2011. Stated maturity date of
April 2038. Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 2.83%
 
 

285,827,267
 
 

292,073,302
 
 

443,418,527
 
 

380,782,546
 
 

10,000,000
 
 

2,000,000
 
 

2,000,000
 
 

17,136,397
 
 

131,932,659
 


 CDO III—Issued ten investment grade tranches December 14, 2006. Reinvestment period through January 2012. Stated maturity date of
January 2042. Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 1.24%
 
 

534,791,657
 
 

544,028,109
 
 

579,343,579
 
 

531,123,295
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

24,795,495
 
 

171,427,137
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total CDOs
 
$
981,054,125
 
$
1,002,615,393
 
$
1,352,533,940
 
$
1,179,542,554
 
$
10,734,969
 
$
2,742,602
 
$
2,737,423
 
$
41,954,028
 
$
455,662,837
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The following table outlines borrowings and the corresponding collateral under the Company's collateralized debt obligations as of
December 31, 2010: 





































 
 
 
 
 
 
Collateral 
 
 
 


 
 
Debt 
 
Loans 
 
Securities 
 
Cash 
 
 
 


(Amounts in thousands)
 
Face
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Unpaid
Principal(1) 
 
Carrying
Value(1) 
 
Face
Value 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Fair
Value(2) 
 
Restricted
Cash(3) 
 
Collateral
At-Risk(4) 
 


 CDO I—Issued four investment grade tranches January 19, 2005. Reinvestment period through April 2009. Stated maturity date of February 2040.
Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 4.52%
 
$
220,475,564
 
$
226,770,198
 
$
413,724,169
 
$
337,901,200
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
474,669
 
$
171,330,710
 


 CDO II—Issued nine investment grade tranches January 11, 2006. Reinvestment period through April 2011. Stated maturity date of
April 2038. Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 2.77%
 
 

295,530,671
 
 

301,999,004
 
 

446,125,317
 
 

404,475,017
 
 

10,000,000
 
 

1,000,000
 
 

1,000,000
 
 

1,529,307
 
 

141,439,540
 


 CDO III—Issued ten investment grade tranches December 14, 2006. Reinvestment period through January 2012. Stated maturity date of
January 2042. Interest is variable based on three-month LIBOR; the weighted average note rate was 1.77%
 
 

532,540,000
 
 

542,083,353
 
 

609,849,262
 
 

561,766,846
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

49,810
 
 

174,133,105
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total CDOs
 
$
1,048,546,235
 
$
1,070,852,555
 
$
1,469,698,748
 
$
1,304,143,063
 
$
10,000,000
 
$
1,000,000
 
$
1,000,000
 
$
2,053,786
 
$
486,903,355
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Amounts
include loans to real estate assets consolidated by the Company that were reclassified to real estate owned and
held-for-sale, net on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

139



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 


(2)The
security with a fair value of $737,423 was rated AAA at December 31, 2011 by Standard & Poor's. The security with a fair value of
$2,000,000 was rated CCC- at December 31, 2011 and BB- at December 31, 2010 by Standard & Poor's.
(3)Represents
restricted cash held for reinvestment and/or principal repayments in the CDOs. Does not include restricted cash related to interest payments,
delayed fundings and expenses.
(4)Amounts
represent the face value of collateral in default, as defined by the CDO indenture, as well as assets deemed to be "credit risk". Credit risk assets
are reported by each of the CDOs and are generally defined as one that, in the CDO collateral manager's reasonable business judgment, has a significant risk of declining in credit quality or, with a
passage of time, becoming a defaulted asset. 

        At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate weighted average note rate for the Company's collateralized debt obligations, including the
cost of interest rate swaps on assets financed in these facilities, was 2.23% and 2.63%, respectively. Excluding the effect of swaps, the weighted average note rate at December 31, 2011 and
2010 was 1.14% and 0.86%, respectively. 
        On
January 19, 2005, the Company completed its first collateralized debt obligation vehicle, issuing to third party investors four tranches of investment grade collateralized debt
obligations ("CDO I") through a newly-formed wholly-owned subsidiary, Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2004-1, Ltd. ("the Issuer"). At inception, the Issuer held
assets, consisting primarily of bridge loans, mezzanine loans and cash totaling approximately $469.0 million, which serve as collateral for CDO I. The Issuer issued investment grade notes with
an initial principal amount of approximately $305.0 million and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company purchased the preferred equity interests of the Issuer. The four investment grade
tranches were issued with floating rate coupons with an initial combined weighted average rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.77%. CDO I was replenished with substitute collateral for loans that were
repaid during the first four years of CDO I, up until April 2009. Thereafter, the outstanding debt balance is reduced as loans are repaid. The Company incurred approximately $7.2 million of
issuance costs which is amortized on a level yield basis over the average estimated life of CDO I. As of April 15, 2009, CDO I has reached the end of its replenishment date and will no longer
make $2.0 million amortization payments to investors that were made quarterly prior to the replenishment date. Investor capital is repaid quarterly from proceeds received from loan repayments
held as collateral in accordance with the terms of the CDO. Proceeds distributed are recorded as a reduction of the CDO liability. Proceeds of $52.8 million and $28.4 million were
distributed in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The CDO liability is also reduced as the investment grade notes are purchased by the Company—see below. The outstanding note balance for CDO I
was $166.5 million and $226.8 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        On
January 11, 2006, the Company completed its second collateralized debt obligation vehicle, issuing to third party investors nine tranches of investment grade collateralized
debt obligations ("CDO II") through a newly-formed wholly-owned subsidiary, Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2005-1, Ltd. ("the Issuer II"). At inception, the
Issuer II held assets, consisting primarily of bridge loans, mezzanine loans and cash totaling approximately $475.0 million, which serve as collateral for CDO II. The Issuer II issued
investment grade notes with an initial principal amount of approximately $356.0 million and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company purchased the preferred equity interests of the Issuer II.
The nine investment grade tranches were issued with floating rate coupons with an initial combined weighted average rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.74%. CDO II was replenished with substitute
collateral for loans that were repaid during the first five years of CDO II, up until April 2011. Thereafter, the outstanding debt balance is reduced as loans are repaid. The Company incurred
approximately $6.2 million of issuance costs which is being amortized on a level yield basis over the average estimated life of CDO II. As of April 15, 2011, CDO II has reached the 
140



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 
end
of its replenishment date and will no longer make $1.2 million amortization payments to investors that were made quarterly prior to the replenishment date. Investor capital is repaid
quarterly from proceeds received from loan repayments held as collateral in accordance with the terms of the CDO. Proceeds distributed are recorded as a reduction of the CDO liability. Proceeds of
$1.4 million and $4.7 million were distributed and recorded as a reduction of the CDO II liability during both 2011 and 2010, respectively. The CDO liability is also reduced as the investment
grade notes are purchased by the Company—see below. The outstanding note balance for CDO II was $292.1 million and $302.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        On
December 14, 2006, the Company completed its third collateralized debt obligation vehicle, issuing to third party investors ten tranches of investment grade collateralized debt
obligations ("CDO III") through a newly-formed wholly-owned subsidiary, Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2006-1, Ltd. ("the Issuer III"). At inception, the
Issuer III held assets, consisting primarily of bridge loans, mezzanine loans, junior participation loans, preferred equity investments and cash totaling approximately $500.0 million, which
serve as collateral for CDO III. The Issuer III issued investment grade notes with an initial principal amount of approximately $547.5 million, including a $100.0 million revolving note
class that provides a revolving note facility and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company purchased the preferred equity interests of the Issuer III. The ten investment grade tranches were issued
with floating rate coupons with an initial combined weighted average rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.44% and the revolving note facility has a commitment fee of 0.22% per annum on the undrawn portion
of the facility. CDO III was replenished with substitute collateral for loans that were repaid during the first five years up to January 2012. Thereafter, the outstanding debt balance will be reduced
as loans are repaid. As of January 15, 2012, CDO III has reached the end of its replenishment date. Investor capital will be repaid quarterly from proceeds received from loan repayments held as
collateral in accordance with the terms of the CDO. Proceeds distributed are recorded as a reduction of the CDO liability. The Company incurred approximately $9.7 million of issuance costs
which is being amortized on a level yield basis over the average estimated life of CDO III. The outstanding note balance for CDO III was $544.0 million and $542.1 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. CDO III has $100.0 million revolving note class that provides a revolving note facility. The CDO liability is also reduced as the investment
grade notes are purchased by the Company—see below. The outstanding revolving note facility for CDO III was $100.0 million and $92.2 million at December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. 
        Proceeds
from the sale of the 23 investment grade tranches issued in CDO I, CDO II and CDO III were used to repay outstanding debt under the Company's repurchase agreements and
notes payable. The assets pledged as collateral were contributed from the Company's existing portfolio of assets. 
        The
Company intends to own these portfolios of real estate-related assets until their maturities and accounts for these transactions on its Consolidated Balance Sheet as financing
facilities. The Company's CDOs are VIEs for which the Company is the primary beneficiary and are consolidated in the
Company's Financial Statements accordingly. The investment grade tranches are treated as secured financings, and are non-recourse to the Company. 
        During
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company purchased, at a discount, approximately $21.3 million of investment grade rated Class B, C, D, E and F notes originally
issued by its three 
141



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 
CDO
issuing entities for a price of $10.4 million from third party investors and recorded a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $10.9 million from these transactions in its 2011
Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
        During
the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company purchased, at a discount, approximately $67.7 million of investment grade rated Class A2, B, C, D, E, F and G notes originally
issued by its three CDO issuing entities for a price of $22.8 million from third party investors, except for a $15.0 million Class B note which was purchased from the Company's manager,
ACM, for a price of approximately $6.2 million. In 2010, ACM purchased this note from a third party investor for approximately $6.2 million. The Company recorded a net gain on
extinguishment of debt of $44.8 million from these transactions in its 2010 Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
        In
February 2010, the Company re-issued its own CDO bonds it had acquired throughout 2009 with an aggregate face amount of approximately $42.8 million as part of an
exchange for the retirement of $114.1 million of its junior subordinated notes. During 2009, the Company's purchase of the approximately $42.8 million of investment grade rated
Class B, C, F, G and H notes originally issued by its three CDO issuing entities resulted in a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $31.0 million recorded in its 2009 Consolidated
Statement of Operations. The exchange transaction resulted in the recording of $65.2 million of additional CDO debt, of which $42.3 million represents the portion of the Company's CDO
bonds that were exchanged and $22.9 million represents the estimated interest due on the reissued bonds through their maturity, of which $21.6 million remains at December 31,
2011. See "Junior Subordinated Notes" below for further details. 
        The
following table sets forth the face amount and gain on extinguishment of the Company's CDO bonds repurchased in the following periods by bond class: 




























 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


Class:



 
Face
Amount 
 
Gain 
 
Face
Amount 
 
Gain 
 
Face
Amount(1) 
 
Gain 
 


 A2
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
7,375,000
 
$
4,683,125
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 B
 
 
5,654,540
 
 
2,086,799
 
 
35,500,000
 
 
20,182,344
 
 
4,590,000
 
 
3,373,650
 


 C
 
 
7,005,291
 
 
3,502,815
 
 
12,350,132
 
 
9,823,405
 
 
12,821,021
 
 
10,415,770
 


 D
 
 
2,433,912
 
 
1,428,950
 
 
822,216
 
 
680,384
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 E
 
 
2,291,855
 
 
1,403,761
 
 
1,636,457
 
 
1,374,624
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 F
 
 
3,918,343
 
 
2,455,892
 
 
5,936,662
 
 
4,828,921
 
 
5,598,331
 
 
4,951,998
 


 G
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,030,552
 
 
3,254,671
 
 
6,846,155
 
 
4,813,078
 


 H
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
12,921,463
 
 
7,471,703
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
21,303,941
 
$
10,878,217
 
$
67,651,019
 
$
44,827,474
 
$
42,776,970
 
$
31,026,199
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)The
CDO bonds acquired during 2009 were re-issued in February 2010 as part of an exchange for the retirement of junior subordinated notes. 

142



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 
 Junior Subordinated Notes  
        The following table outlines borrowings under the Company's junior subordinated notes as of December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
















 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 
 
Debt
Carrying
Value 
 
Debt
Carrying
Value 
 


 Junior subordinated notes, maturity March 2034, unsecured, face amount of $28.0 million, interest rate fixed until 2012 then variable based on
three-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 0.50%
 
$
25,203,958
 
$
25,126,543
 


 Junior subordinated notes, maturity April 2035, unsecured, face amount of $7.0 million, interest rate fixed until 2012 then variable
based on three-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 0.50%
 
 

6,277,218
 
 

6,260,453
 


 Junior subordinated notes, maturity March 2034, unsecured, face amount of $28.0 million, interest rate fixed until 2012 then
variable based on three-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 0.50%
 
 

25,203,958
 
 

25,126,543
 


 Junior subordinated notes, maturity March 2034, unsecured, face amount of $27.3 million, interest rate fixed until 2012 then
variable based on three-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 0.50%
 
 

24,573,169
 
 

24,497,690
 


 Junior subordinated notes, maturity June 2036, unsecured, face amount of $14.6 million, interest rate fixed until 2012 then variable
based on three-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 0.50%
 
 

13,121,735
 
 

13,086,871
 


 Junior subordinated notes, maturity April 2037, unsecured, face amount of $15.7 million, interest rate fixed until 2012 then
variable based on three-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 0.50%
 
 

14,100,534
 
 

14,062,800
 


 Junior subordinated notes, maturity April 2037, unsecured, face amount of $31.5 million, interest rate fixed until 2012 then
variable based on three-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 0.50%
 
 

28,327,185
 
 

28,251,162
 


 Junior subordinated notes, maturity April 2035, unsecured, face amount of $21.2 million, interest rate fixed until 2012 then
variable based on three-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 0.50%
 
 

19,087,154
 
 

19,034,178
 


 Junior subordinated notes, maturity June 2036, unsecured, face amount of $2.6 million, interest rate fixed until 2012 then variable
based on three-month LIBOR, the weighted average note rate was 0.50%
 
 

2,366,557
 
 

2,359,998
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total junior subordinated notes
 
$
158,261,468
 
$
157,806,238
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
carrying value under these facilities was $158.3 million and $157.8 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, which is net of a deferred amount of
$17.6 million and $18.1 million, respectively. The 
143



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 
current
weighted average note rate was 0.50% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, however, based upon the accounting treatment for the restructuring mentioned below, the effective rate was 3.85% at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The impact of these variable interest entities with respect to consolidation is discussed in Note 9—"Variable Interest Entities." 
        In
February 2010, the Company retired $114.1 million of its junior subordinated notes, with a carrying value of $102.1 million, in exchange for the re-issuance
of its own CDO bonds it had acquired throughout 2009 with an aggregate face amount of $42.8 million, CDO bonds of other issuers it had acquired in the second quarter of 2008 with an aggregate
face amount of $25.0 million and a carrying value of $0.4 million, and $10.5 million in cash. This transaction resulted in the recording of $65.2 million of additional CDO debt,
of which $42.3 million represents the portion of the Company's CDO bonds that were exchanged and $22.9 million represents the estimated interest due on the bonds through their maturity,
a reduction to securities available-for-sale of $0.4 million representing the fair value of CDO bonds of other issuers, and a gain on extinguishment of debt of
$26.3 million, or $1.03 per basic and diluted common share, in the first quarter of 2010. 
        In
2009, the Company retired $265.8 million of its then outstanding trust preferred securities, primarily consisting of $258.4 million of junior subordinated notes issued
to third party investors and $7.4 million of common equity issued to the Company in exchange for $289.4 million of newly issued unsecured junior subordinated notes, representing 112% of the
original face amount. The notes bear a fixed interest rate of 0.50% per annum until March 31, 2012 or April 30, 2012 (the "Modification Period"). Thereafter, interest is to be paid at
the rates set forth in the existing trust agreements until maturity, equal to three month LIBOR plus a weighted average spread of 2.90%, which was reduced to 2.77% after the exchange in February 2010
mentioned above. The 12% increase to the face amount due upon maturity, which had a balance of $17.6 million at December 31, 2011, is being amortized into expense over the life of the
notes. The Company also paid transaction fees of approximately $1.3 million to the issuers of the junior subordinated notes related to this restructuring which is being amortized over the life of the
notes. 
        During
the Modification Periods, the Company will be permitted to make distributions of up to 100% of taxable income to common shareholders. The Company has agreed that such
distributions will be paid in the form of the Company's stock to the maximum extent permissible under the Internal Revenue Service rules and regulations in effect at the time of such distribution,
with the balance payable in cash. This requirement regarding distributions in stock can be terminated by the Company at any time, provided that the Company pays the note holders the original rate of
interest from the time of such termination. 
        The
junior subordinated notes are unsecured, have original maturities of 25 to 28 years, pay interest quarterly at a fixed rate or floating rate of interest based on three-month
LIBOR and, absent the occurrence of special events, are not redeemable during the first two years. In connection with the issuance of the original variable rate junior subordinated notes, the Company
had entered into various interest rate swap agreements which were subsequently terminated upon the exchange discussed above, resulting in a loss on termination of swaps of $8.7 million in 2009.
See Note 10—"Derivative Financial Instruments" for further information relating to these derivatives. 
144




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued)  

        In March 2009, the Company purchased from its manager, ACM, approximately $9.4 million of junior subordinated notes originally issued by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company's
operating partnership for $1.3 million. In 2009, ACM purchased these notes from third party investors for $1.3 million. The Company recorded a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $8.1 million
and a reduction of outstanding debt totaling $9.4 million from this transaction in the Company's 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with this transaction, during the second
quarter of 2009, the Company retired approximately $0.3 million of common equity related to these junior subordinated notes. 
 Notes Payable  
        The following table outlines borrowings under the Company's notes payable as of December 31, 2011 and 2010: 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Debt
Carrying
Value 
 
Collateral
Carrying
Value 
 
Debt
Carrying
Value 
 
Collateral
Carrying
Value 
 


 Note payable relating to investment in equity affiliates, $50.2 million, expiration July 2016, interest is fixed, the weighted average note rate was
4.06%
 
$
50,157,708
 
$
55,988,411
 
$
50,157,708
 
$
55,988,411
 


 Junior loan participation, maturity of July 2012, secured by the Company's interest in a mezzanine loan with a principal balance of
$32.0 million, participation interest was based on a portion of the interest received from the loan which has a variable rate of LIBOR plus 4.35%
 
 

32,000,000
 
 

32,000,000
 
 

—
 
 

—
 


 Junior loan participation, maturity of August 2012, secured by the Company's interest in a mezzanine loan with a principal balance of
$11.8 million. The participation has a 0% rate of interest
 
 

2,000,000
 
 

2,000,000
 
 

—
 
 

—
 


 Junior loan participation, secured by the Company's interest in a first mortgage loan with a principal balance of $1.3 million,
participation interest was based on a portion of the interest received from the loan which has a fixed rate of 9.57%
 
 

1,300,000
 
 

1,300,000
 
 

1,300,000
 
 

1,300,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total notes payable
 
$
85,457,708
 
$
91,288,411
 
$
51,457,708
 
$
57,288,411
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate weighted average note rate for the Company's notes payable was 4.14% and 3.95%, respectively.
There were no interest rate swaps on the notes payable at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        In
2008, the Company recorded a $49.5 million note payable after receiving cash related to a transaction with Lightstone Value Plus REIT, L.P. to exchange the Company's
profits interest in POM for operating partnership units in Lightstone Value Plus REIT, L.P. The note, which was paid down to $48.5 million as of December 31, 2008, was initially
secured by the Company's interest in POM, matures in July 2016 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.06% with payment deferred until the closing of the transaction. Upon the closing of the POM
transaction in March 2009, the note balance was increased to $50.2 million and is secured by the Company's investment in common and preferred operating partnership units in Lightstone Value
Plus REIT, L.P. In March 2009, the Company also 
145



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 
recorded
a gain on exchange of profits interest of $56.0 million. See Note 5—"Investment in Equity Affiliates" for further details. At December 31, 2011, the
outstanding balance of this note was $50.2 million. 
        In
April 2011, the Company entered into a non-recourse junior loan participation in the amount of $32.0 million on a $50.0 million mezzanine loan. The loan was
participated out to a subordinate lender at a discount and the Company received $28.8 million of proceeds. The subordinate lender will receive its proportionate share of the interest received
from the loan, which has a variable rate of LIBOR plus 4.35% and a maturity of July 2012. The Company also has the right to sell its $18.0 million senior participation to the subordinate
lender, at face value, in the event of default or if the loan is not repaid by July 9, 2012. The outstanding balance of this junior loan participation was $32.0 million at
December 31, 2011. In June 2011, the Company entered into a non-recourse junior loan participation in the amount of $2.0 million on an $11.8 million mezzanine loan.
The participation has a 0% rate of interest and a maturity of August 2012. The outstanding balance of this junior loan participation was $2.0 million at December 31, 2011. The Company
also has a third junior loan participation with an outstanding balance at December 31, 2011 of $1.3 million on a $1.3 million bridge loan. Participations have a maturity date
equal to the corresponding mortgage loan and are secured by the participant's interest in the mortgage loan. Interest expense is based on the portion of the interest received from the loan that is
paid to the junior participant. The Company's obligation to pay interest on the participation is based on the performance of the related loan. 
        In
the first quarter of 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with Wachovia Bank, National Association, owned by Wells Fargo, National Association ("Wachovia") whereby the Company
could retire all of its $335.6 million of debt outstanding at the time the parties began to negotiate the agreement for a discounted payoff amount of $176.2 million, representing 52.5%
of the face amount of the debt. The $335.6 million of indebtedness was comprised of $286.1 million of term debt and a $49.5 million working capital facility. Upon closing on the
discounted payoff agreement on June 30, 2010, the Company recorded a $158.4 million gain to its 2010 Consolidated Statement of Operations, net of $0.4 million of stock warrant expense
and $0.6 million of other various expenses and commissions. Estimated state income taxes were approximately $0.9 million and recorded in provision for income taxes resulting in a net
gain of approximately $157.5 million. In June 2010, the Company entered into a new $26.0 million term financing agreement with a different financial institution collateralized by two
multi-family loans. The maturity date of the facility was in December 2010 and the facility bore an Interest rate of LIBOR plus 500 basis points or Prime plus 500 basis points. The Company paid a 1%
commitment fee upon closing. In October 2010, the Company repaid the $26.0 million facility. In July 2009, the Company had amended and restructured its term credit agreements, revolving credit
agreement and working capital facility (the "Amended Agreements") with Wachovia. Pursuant to the Amended Agreements, the interest rate for the term loan facility was changed to LIBOR plus 350 basis
points from LIBOR plus approximately 200 basis points and the interest rate on the working capital facility was changed to LIBOR plus 800 basis points from LIBOR plus 500 basis points. The Company had
also agreed to pay a commitment fee of 1.00% payable over three years and issued Wachovia 1.0 million warrants at an average strike price of $4.00. All of the warrants expire on July 23, 2015
and no warrants have been exercised to date. The warrants were valued at approximately $0.6 million upon issuance using the Black-Scholes method and were partially amortized into interest
expense in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations as of the second quarter of 2010. The remaining 
146



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 
portion
totaling $0.4 million was expensed as part of the Wachovia discounted payoff gain above. See Note 13—"Equity—Warrants" for further details. 
        Also,
during the second quarter of 2009, the Company settled a debt repurchase facility resulting in a gain on early extinguishment of the debt of $15.0 million. 
 Mortgage Notes Payable—Real Estate Owned  
        During 2011, the Company assumed a $55.4 million interest-only first lien mortgage in connection with the
acquisition of real property pursuant to bankruptcy proceedings for an entity in which the Company had a $29.8 million loan secured by a portfolio of multifamily assets. The real estate
investment was classified as real estate owned in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet in March 2011. The mortgage bears interest at a
variable rate of one-month LIBOR plus 1.23% and has a maturity date of March 2014 with a one year and three month extension option. In June 2011, one of the properties in the portfolio was
sold to a third party for $1.6 million and the proceeds were used to pay down the first lien mortgage to a balance of $53.8 million at December 31, 2011. 
 Mortgage Note Payable—Held-For-Sale  
        During 2010, the Company assumed a $20.8 million interest-only first lien mortgage related to a deed in lieu of
foreclosure agreement for an entity in which the Company had a $5.6 million junior participation loan secured by an apartment building. The real estate investment was originally classified as
real estate owned and was reclassified as real estate held-for-sale in December 2011. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.23% and has a maturity date of December
2013 with a five year extension option. The outstanding balance of this mortgage was $20.8 million at December 31, 2011. 
        During
2008, the Company assumed a $41.4 million interest-only first lien mortgage related to the foreclosure of an entity in which the Company had a
$5.0 million mezzanine loan. The real estate investment was originally classified as real estate owned and was reclassified as real estate held-for-sale in September
2009. The mortgage bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.13% and has a maturity date of June 2012. The outstanding balance of this mortgage was $41.4 million at December 31, 2011. 
        The
total outstanding balance of these mortgages was approximately $62.2 million and $41.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 Debt Covenants  
        The Company's debt facilities contain various financial covenants and restrictions, including minimum net worth, minimum liquidity and
maximum debt balance requirements, as well as certain other debt service coverage ratios and debt to equity ratios. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions at
December 31, 2011. 
        The
Company's CDO vehicles contain interest coverage and asset overcollateralization covenants that must be met as of the waterfall distribution date in order for the Company to receive
such payments. If the Company fails these covenants in any of its CDOs, all cash flows from the applicable CDO would
be diverted to repay principal and interest on the outstanding CDO bonds and the Company would not receive any residual payments until that CDO regained compliance with such tests. 
147



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 
The
Company's CDOs were in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31, 2011, as well as on the most recent determination date in January 2012. In the event of a breach of the CDO
covenants that could not be cured in the near-term, the Company would be required to fund its non-CDO expenses, including management fees and employee costs, distributions
required to maintain REIT status, debt costs, and other expenses with (i) cash on hand, (ii) income from any CDO not in breach of a CDO covenant test, (iii) income from real
property and loan assets, (iv) sale of assets, (v) or accessing the equity or debt capital markets, if available. The Company has the right to cure covenant breaches which would resume
normal residual payments to it by purchasing non-performing loans out of the CDOs. However, the Company may not have sufficient liquidity available to do so at such time. 
        The
chart below is a summary of the Company's CDO compliance tests as of the most recent determination date in January 2012: 



















Cash Flow Triggers



 
CDO I 
 
CDO II 
 
CDO III 
 


 Overcollateralization(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current
 
 

211.18
%
 

179.31
%
 

107.59
%


 Limit
 
 

184.00
%
 

169.50
%
 

105.60
%


 Pass / Fail
 
 

Pass
 
 

Pass
 
 

Pass
 


 Interest Coverage(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current
 
 

307.53
%
 

468.97
%
 

421.46
%


 Limit
 
 

160.00
%
 

147.30
%
 

105.60
%


 Pass / Fail
 
 

Pass
 
 

Pass
 
 

Pass
 








(1)The
overcollateralization ratio divides the total principal balance of all collateral in the CDO by the total principal balance of the bonds associated with
the applicable ratio. To the extent an asset is considered a defaulted security, the asset's principal balance for purposes of the overcollateralization test is the lesser of the asset's market value
or the principal balance of the defaulted asset multiplied by the asset's recovery rate which is determined by the rating agencies. Rating downgrades of CDO collateral will generally not have a direct
impact on the principal balance of a CDO asset for purposes of calculating the CDO's overcollateralization test unless the rating downgrade is below a significantly low threshold
(e.g. CCC-) as defined in each CDO vehicle.
(2)The
interest coverage ratio divides interest income by interest expense for the classes senior to those retained by the Company. 

        As
of the determination dates in January 2012, October 2011, July 2011, April 2011 and January 2011, the Company's overcollateralization ratios were 211.18%, 207.53%, 196.92%, 185.59%
and 185.88%, respectively, for CDO I; 179.31%, 181.78%, 181.74%, 181.74% and 171.81%, respectively, for CDO II; and 107.59%, 108.47%, 109.50%, 109.89% and 109.50%, respectively, for CDO III. The ratio
will fluctuate based on the performance of the underlying assets, transfers of assets into the CDOs 
148



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 7—Debt Obligations (Continued) 
prior
to the expiration of their respective replenishment dates, purchase or disposal of other investments, and loan payoffs. 
        Also,
no payment due under the Junior Subordinated Indentures may be paid if there is a default under any senior debt and the senior lender has sent notice to the trustee. The Junior
Subordinated Indentures are also cross-defaulted with each other. 
 Note 8—Noncontrolling Interest  

        Noncontrolling interest in a consolidated entity on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet, with a balance of $1.9 million and $2.0 million as of December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively, represents a third party's interest in the equity of a consolidated subsidiary, and is related to the POM transaction discussed in Note 5—"Investment in
Equity Affiliates." For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded net income of $0.2 million, as well as distributions of $0.3 million, attributable to the
noncontrolling equity interest. As a result of the POM transaction in March 2009, the Company recorded $18.7 million of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest holder and a
distribution to the noncontrolling interest of $16.7 million in 2009. 
 Note 9—Variable Interest Entities  

        The Company has evaluated its loans and investments, mortgage related securities, investments in equity affiliates, junior subordinated notes and CDOs, in order to determine if they
qualify as VIEs or as variable interests in VIEs. This evaluation resulted in the Company determining that its bridge loans, junior participation loans, mezzanine loans, preferred equity investments,
investments in equity affiliates, junior subordinated notes, CDOs, and investments in mortgage related securities are potential VIEs. A VIE is defined as an entity in which equity investors
(i) do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, and/or (ii) do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional
financial support from other parties. 
        A
VIE is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which is defined as the party that (i) has the power to control the activities that most significantly impact the
VIE's economic performance and (ii) has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could
potentially be significant to the VIE. The Company's involvement with VIEs primarily affects its financial performance and cash flows through amounts recorded in interest income, interest expense,
provision for loan losses and through activity associated with its derivative instruments. 
 Consolidated VIEs  
        The Company consolidates its three CDO subsidiaries, which qualify as VIEs, of which the Company is the primary beneficiary. These CDOs
invest in real estate and real estate-related securities and are financed by the issuance of CDO debt securities. The Company, or one of its affiliates, is named collateral manager, servicer, and
special servicer for all CDO collateral assets which the Company believes gives it the power to direct the most significant economic activities of the entity. The Company also has exposure to CDO
losses to the extent of its equity interests and also has rights to waterfall payments in excess of required payments to CDO bond investors. As a result of consolidation, 
149



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 9—Variable Interest Entities (Continued) 
equity
interests in these CDOs have been eliminated, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects both the assets held and debt issued by the CDOs to third parties. The Company's operating results and
cash flows include the gross amounts related to CDO assets and liabilities as opposed to the Company's net economic interests in the CDO entities. 
        Assets
held by the CDOs are restricted and can be used only to settle obligations of the CDOs. The liabilities of the CDOs are non-recourse to the Company and can only be
satisfied from each CDO's respective asset pool. Assets and liabilities related to the CDOs are disclosed parenthetically, in the aggregate, in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. See
Note 7—"Debt Obligations" for further details. 
        The
Company is not obligated to provide, has not provided, and does not intend to provide financial support to any of the consolidated CDOs. 
 Unconsolidated VIEs  
        The Company determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of 47 VIEs in which it has a variable interest as of December 31,
2011 because it does not have the ability to direct the activities of the VIEs that most significantly impact each entity's economic performance. VIEs, of which the Company is not the primary
beneficiary, have an aggregate carrying amount of $644.2 million and exposure to real estate debt of approximately $5.7 billion at December 31, 2011. 
150



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 9—Variable Interest Entities (Continued) 
        The
following is a summary of the Company's variable interests in identified VIEs, of which the Company is not the primary beneficiary, as of December 31, 2011: 



















Type



 
Origination
Date 
 
Carrying
Amount(1) 
 
Property 
 
Location 


 Loan and investment
 
 
Dec - 03
 
$
50,000,000
 
Office
 
New York


 Loan
 
 
Jan - 06
 
 
1,355,613
 
Multifamily
 
New York


 Loan
 
 
Mar - 06
 
 
9,876,179
 
Office
 
Pennsylvania


 Loan
 
 
Jun - 06
 
 
107,142,150
 
Land
 
California


 Loan
 
 
Aug - 06
 
 
5,447,637
 
Multifamily
 
Indiana


 Loan
 
 
Sep - 06
 
 
2,800,000
 
Office
 
Rhode Island


 Loan
 
 
Oct - 06
 
 
1,361,311
 
Multifamily
 
South Carolina


 Loan
 
 
Oct - 06
 
 
2,047,183
 
Multifamily
 
North Carolina


 Loan
 
 
May - 08
 
 
5,699,328
 
Multifamily
 
Florida


 Loan
 
 
Dec - 06
 
 
62,563,018
 
Multifamily
 
New York


 Loan
 
 
Jan - 07
 
 
4,048,626
 
Multifamily
 
Texas


 Loan
 
 
Mar - 07
 
 
1,878,420
 
Office
 
South Carolina


 Loan
 
 
Mar - 07
 
 
37,023,888
 
Office
 
New York


 Loan
 
 
Feb - 07
 
 
46,994,764
 
Multifamily
 
Florida


 Loan
 
 
Mar - 07
 
 
1,994,965
 
Multifamily
 
Florida


 Loan
 
 
Mar - 07
 
 
3,671,507
 
Hotel
 
Arizona


 Loan
 
 
Jun - 07
 
 
4,144,541
 
Multifamily
 
Michigan


 Loan
 
 
Jul - 07
 
 
9,891,851
 
Multifamily
 
Texas


 Loan
 
 
Jul - 07
 
 
8,565,779
 
Multifamily
 
Texas


 Loan
 
 
Jul - 07
 
 
4,209,691
 
Multifamily
 
Texas


 Loan
 
 
Feb - 08
 
 
51,699,923
 
Multifamily
 
California


 Loan
 
 
May - 06
 
 
10,000,000
 
Condo
 
California


 Loan
 
 
Aug - 07
 
 
5,942,190
 
Multifamily
 
Florida


 Loan
 
 
Dec - 06
 
 
32,007,719
 
Multifamily
 
Various


 Loan
 
 
Dec - 06
 
 
24,999,972
 
Land
 
Florida


 Loan
 
 
Jun - 06
 
 
1,874,150
 
Multifamily
 
Texas


 Loan
 
 
Aug - 10
 
 
7,026,864
 
Hotel
 
California


 Loan
 
 
Dec - 10
 
 
6,841,610
 
Multifamily
 
Texas


 Loan
 
 
Jan - 11
 
 
1,928,195
 
Multifamily
 
Texas


 Loan
 
 
Apr - 11
 
 
1,884,283
 
Multifamily
 
New York


 Loan
 
 
Feb - 06
 
 
1,903,094
 
Multifamily
 
Indiana


 Loan
 
 
Nov - 08
 
 
4,667,864
 
Multifamily
 
Connecticut


 Loan
 
 
Nov - 11
 
 
3,933,570
 
Office
 
Texas


 Loan
 
 
Nov - 11
 
 
5,600,000
 
Multifamily
 
Indiana


 Loan and investment
 
 
Dec - 11
 
 
78,599,214
 
Multifamily
 
Various


 Investment
 
 
May - 08
 
 
2,000,000
 
CDO bond
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Dec - 10
 
 
2,100,000
 
CMBS
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Jul - 11
 
 
591,292
 
RMBS
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Jul - 11
 
 
2,102,963
 
RMBS
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Oct - 11
 
 
7,177,461
 
RMBS
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Oct - 11
 
 
13,602,894
 
RMBS
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Nov - 11
 
 
4,778,497
 
RMBS
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Dec - 11
 
 
75,208
 
RMBS
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Dec - 11
 
 
871,190
 
RMBS
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Nov - 11
 
 
742,603
 
CMBS
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Apr - 05
 
 
187,000
 
Junior subordinated notes(2)
 
N/A


 Investment
 
 
Jun - 06
 
 
391,000
 
Junior subordinated notes(2)
 
N/A


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
 
 
$
644,245,207
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








151



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 9—Variable Interest Entities (Continued) 


(1)Represents
the carrying amount of loans and investments before reserves. The Company's maximum exposure to loss would not exceed the carrying amount of its
investment. At December 31, 2011, $206.9 million of loans to VIEs had corresponding loan loss reserves of approximately $122.7 million and $42.7 million of loans to VIEs
were related to loans classified as non-performing. See Note 3—"Loans and Investments" for further details.
(2)These
entities that issued the junior subordinated notes are VIEs. It is not appropriate to consolidate these entities as equity interests are variable
interests only to the extent that the investment is considered to be at risk. Since the Company's investments were funded by the entities that issued the junior subordinated notes, it is not
considered to be at risk. 

 Note 10—Derivative Financial Instruments  

        The Company recognizes all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and measures those instruments at fair value. Additionally, the fair value
adjustments will affect either accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings, or net income (loss) attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., depending on
whether the derivative instrument qualifies as a hedge for accounting purposes and, if so, the nature of the hedging activity. The ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value is
recognized immediately in earnings. 
        In
connection with the Company's interest rate risk management, the Company periodically hedges a portion of its interest rate risk by entering into derivative financial instrument
contracts. Specifically, the Company's derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of its expected cash receipts and its expected cash payments
principally related to its investments and borrowings. The Company's objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest income and to manage its exposure to interest rate
movements. To accomplish this objective, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges
involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements without exchange of the
underlying notional amount. The Company has entered into various interest rate swap agreements to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk on (i) variable rate borrowings as it relates to fixed
rate loans; (ii) the difference between the CDO investor return being based on the three-month LIBOR index while the supporting assets of the CDO are based on the one-month LIBOR index; and
(iii) use of LIBOR rate caps in loan agreements. 
        Derivative
financial instruments must be effective in reducing the Company's interest rate risk exposure in order to qualify for hedge accounting. When the terms of an underlying
transaction are modified, or when the underlying hedged item ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of the instrument are marked-to-market with changes in value
included in net income for each period until the derivative instrument matures or is settled. In cases where a derivative financial instrument is terminated early, any gain or loss is generally
amortized over the remaining life of the hedged item. Any derivative instrument used for risk management that does not meet the hedging
criteria is marked-to-market with the changes in value included in net income. The Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 
152




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 10—Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)  

        The following is a summary of the derivative financial instruments held by the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 (dollars in thousands): 


































 
 
 
 
Notional Value 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value 
 


Designation\Cash Flow




 
Derivative 
 
Count 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
Count 
 
December 31,
2010 
 
Expiration
Date 
 
Balance
Sheet
Location 
 
December 31,
2011 
 
December 31,
2010 
 


 Non-Qualifying
 
Basis Swaps
 
 
9
 
$
854,079
 
 
9
 
$
1,056,851
 
2012 - 2015
 
Other Assets
 
$
1,563
 
$
1,306
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-Qualifying
 
LIBOR Caps
 
 
2
 
$
13,000
 
 
1
 
$
7,000
 
2012 - 2013
 
Other Assets
 
$
1
 
$
12
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Qualifying
 
LIBOR Cap
 
 
1
 
$
73,301
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
2013
 
Other Assets
 
$
1
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Qualifying
 
Interest Rate Swaps
 
 
24
 
$
515,327
 
 
30
 
$
639,696
 
2012 - 2017
 
Other Liabilities
 
$
(45,890
)
$
(50,803
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The fair value of Non-Qualifying Basis Swap Hedges was $1.6 million and $1.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively, and was recorded in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These basis swaps are used to manage the Company's exposure to interest rate movements and other identified
risks but do not meet hedge accounting requirements. The Company is exposed to changes in the fair value of certain of its fixed rate obligations due to changes in benchmark interest rates and uses
interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to changes in fair value on these instruments attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. These interest rate swaps designated as fair value
hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements without the
exchange of the underlying notional amount. The fair value of the Non-Qualifying LIBOR Cap Hedges was less than $0.1 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and was recorded in other
assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company entered into these hedges in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 due to loan agreements which required LIBOR Caps of 1% to
2%. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, the notional value on four basis swaps decreased by approximately $202.8 million pursuant to the contractual terms of the respective
swap agreements. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the notional value of one basis swap decreased by approximately $4.9 million pursuant to the contractual terms of the swap agreement.
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the change in fair value of the Non-Qualifying Swaps was $0.2 million, $(0.7) million and $(5.2) million, respectively, and was
recorded in interest expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
        The
fair value of Qualifying Interest Rate Swap Cash Flow Hedges as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $(45.9) million and $(50.8) million, respectively, and was recorded in other
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The change in the fair value of Qualifying Interest Rate Swap Cash Flow Hedges was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. These interest rate swaps are used to hedge the variable cash flows associated with existing variable-rate debt, and amounts reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to
derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company's variable-rate debt. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company entered into a LIBOR
Cap with a notional value of approximately $73.3 million that qualifies as a cash flow hedge. The fair value of the Qualifying LIBOR Cap Hedge was less than $0.1 million at
December 31, 2011 and was recorded
in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company entered into this hedge in the first quarter of 2011 due to a loan agreement which required a LIBOR Cap of 2%. In addition, during the 
153



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 10—Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued) 
year
ended December 31, 2011, the notional values on two interest rate swaps decreased by approximately $14.2 million pursuant to the contractual terms of the respective swap agreements
and six interest rate swaps matured with a combined notional value of approximately $111.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company entered into two new interest
rate swaps that qualify as cash flow hedges with a combined notional value of approximately $7.5 million, the notional value on two interest rate swaps decreased by approximately
$43.2 million pursuant to the contractual terms of the respective swap agreements, and six interest rate swaps matured with a combined notional value of approximately $34.9 million. As
of December 31, 2011, the Company expects to reclassify approximately $(15.8) million of other comprehensive loss from Qualifying Cash Flow Hedges to interest expense over the next twelve
months assuming interest rates on that date are held constant. 
        Gains
and losses on terminated swaps are being deferred and recognized in earnings over the original life of the hedged item. These swap agreements must be effective in reducing the
variability of cash flows of the hedged items in order to qualify for the aforementioned hedge accounting treatment. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company has a net deferred loss of
$2.9 million and $4.5 million, respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The Company recorded $1.8 million, $1.7 million and $1.1 million as additional interest
expense related to the amortization of the loss for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $0.2 million, $0.2 million and $0.3 million as a reduction
to interest expense related to the accretion of the net gains for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company expects to record approximately $0.7 million
of net deferred loss to interest expense over the next twelve months. The Company also recorded a loss of $8.7 million on the termination of the interest rate swaps related to the restructured
trust preferred securities directly to loss on terminated swaps in 2009 as the interest rate swaps were determined to no longer be effective or necessary due to the modified interest payment structure
of the newly issued unsecured junior subordinated notes. 
        The
following table presents the effect of the Company's derivative financial instruments on the Statements of Operations as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in
thousands): 
















































 
 
 
 
Amount of Gain or
(Loss) Recognized
in Other
Comprehensive Loss
(Effective Portion)
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
Amount of Loss
Reclassified from
Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Loss into
Interest Expense
(Effective Portion)
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
Amount of Loss
Reclassified from
Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Loss
into Loss on
Terminated Swaps
(Ineffective Portion)
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 
Amount of Gain or
(Loss) Recognized
in Interest Expense
(Ineffective Portion)
For the Year Ended
December 31, 
 


Designation\Cash Flow



 
Derivative 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Non-Qualifying
 
Basis Swaps / Caps
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
827
 
$
(94
)
$
2,538
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Qualifying
 
Interest Rate Swaps / Cap
 
$
6,465
 
$
(1,956
)
$
43,276
 
$
(27,163
)
$
(30,949
)
$
(29,616
)
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
(8,730
)
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The cumulative amount of other comprehensive loss related to net unrealized losses on derivatives designated as Cash Flow Hedges as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010 of approximately $(48.8) million and $(55.3) million, respectively, is a combination of the fair value of qualifying cash flow hedges of $(45.9) million and $(50.8)
million, respectively, deferred losses on terminated interest swaps of $(3.7) million and $(5.5) million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and deferred net gains on 
154



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 10—Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued) 
termination
of interest swaps of $0.8 million and $1.0 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        The
Company has agreements with certain of its derivative counterparties that contain a provision where if the Company defaults on any of its indebtedness, including default where
repayment of the indebtedness has not been accelerated by the lender, then the Company could also be declared in default on its derivative obligations. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the
fair value of derivatives in a net liability position, which includes accrued interest but excludes any adjustment for nonperformance risk related to these agreements, was $(22.0) million and $(21.1)
million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had minimum collateral posting thresholds with certain of its derivative counterparties and had posted collateral of
$21.9 million and $21.3 million, respectively, which is recorded in other assets in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 Note 11—Fair Value  
 Fair Value of Financial Instruments  
        Fair value estimates are dependent upon subjective assumptions and involve significant uncertainties resulting in
variability in estimates with changes in assumptions. The following table summarizes the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments as of December 31,
2011 and 2010: 






















 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Carrying Value 
 
Estimated
Fair Value 
 
Carrying Value 
 
Estimated
Fair Value 
 


 Financial assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loans and investments, net
 
$
1,302,440,660
 
$
1,262,157,792
 
$
1,414,225,388
 
$
1,185,144,418
 


 Available-for-sale securities
 
 
4,276,368
 
 
4,276,368
 
 
3,298,418
 
 
3,298,418
 


 Securities held-to-maturity, net
 
 
29,942,108
 
 
29,994,214
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Derivative financial instruments
 
 
1,565,063
 
 
1,565,063
 
 
1,317,895
 
 
1,317,895
 


 Financial liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Repurchase agreements and credit facilities
 
$
76,105,000
 
$
75,976,340
 
$
990,997
 
$
984,662
 


 Collateralized debt obligations
 
 
1,002,615,393
 
 
606,929,771
 
 
1,070,852,555
 
 
613,631,643
 


 Junior subordinated notes
 
 
158,261,468
 
 
48,464,677
 
 
157,806,238
 
 
48,328,132
 


 Notes payable
 
 
85,457,708
 
 
78,860,307
 
 
51,457,708
 
 
44,612,375
 


 Mortgage note payable—real estate owned
 
 
53,751,004
 
 
51,251,004
 
 
20,750,000
 
 
20,280,173
 


 Mortgage note payable—held-for-sale
 
 
62,190,000
 
 
61,957,869
 
 
41,440,000
 
 
40,781,746
 


 Derivative financial instruments
 
 
45,889,539
 
 
45,889,539
 
 
50,802,533
 
 
50,802,533
 




        The
following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating the fair value of each class of financial instrument: 
         Loans and investments, net:    Fair values of loans and investments that are not impaired are estimated using discounted cash flow
methodology, using discount rates, which, in the opinion of management, best reflect current market interest rates that would be offered for loans with similar characteristics and credit quality. Fair
values of loans and investments that are impaired are estimated by the Company using significant judgments, which include assumptions regarding capitalization rates, 
155



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 11—Fair Value (Continued) 
leasing,
creditworthiness of major tenants, occupancy rates, availability of financing, exit plan, loan sponsorship, actions of other lenders and other factors deemed necessary by management. 
         Available-for-sale securities:    Fair values are approximated based on current market quotes received from
financial sources that trade such securities and are based on prevailing market data and, in some cases, are derived from third party proprietary models based on well recognized financial principles
and reasonable estimates about relevant future market conditions. The fair values of certain CMBS securities are estimated by the Company using significant judgments, which include assumptions
regarding capitalization rates, leasing, creditworthiness of major tenants, occupancy rates, availability of financing, exit plan, loan sponsorship, actions of other lenders and other factors deemed
necessary by management. 
         Securities held-to-maturity, net:    Fair values are approximated based on current market quotes received from
financial sources that trade such securities and are based on prevailing market data and, in some cases, are derived from third party proprietary models based on well recognized financial principles
and reasonable estimates about relevant future market conditions. 
         Derivative financial instruments:    Fair values are approximated based on current market data received from financial sources that
trade such instruments and are based on prevailing market data and derived from third party proprietary models based on well recognized financial principles and reasonable estimates about relevant
future market conditions. These items are included in other assets and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company incorporates credit valuation adjustments in the fair values of
its derivative financial instruments to reflect counterparty nonperformance risk. 
         Repurchase agreements, credit facilities, notes payable and mortgage notes payable:    Fair values are estimated using discounted
cash
flow methodology, using discount rates, which, in the opinion of management, best reflect current market interest rates for financing with similar characteristics and credit quality. 
        Collateralized debt obligations:    Fair values are estimated based on broker quotations, representing the discounted expected
future
cash flows at a yield which reflects current market interest rates and credit spreads. 
         Junior subordinated notes:    Fair values are estimated based on broker quotations, representing the discounted expected future
cash
flows at a yield which reflects current market interest rates and credit spreads. 
 Fair Value Measurement  
        Fair value is defined as the price at which an asset could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable,
willing parties. A liability's fair value is defined as the amount that would be paid to transfer the liability to a new obligor, not the amount that would be paid to settle the liability with the
creditor. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation
models are applied. These valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and
the instruments' complexity. 
156



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 11—Fair Value (Continued) 
        Assets
and liabilities disclosed at fair value are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value. Hierarchical levels directly
related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs to fair valuation of these assets and liabilities are as follows:


•Level 1—Inputs are unadjusted and quoted prices exist in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities at the measurement date. The types of assets and liabilities carried at Level 1 fair value generally are government and agency securities, equities listed in active markets,
investments in publicly traded mutual funds with quoted market prices and listed derivatives. 
•Level 2—Inputs (other than quoted prices included in Level 1) are either directly or indirectly
observable for the asset or liability through correlation with market data at the measurement date and for the duration of the instrument's anticipated life. Level 2 inputs include quoted
market prices in markets that are not active for an identical or similar asset or liability, and quoted market prices in active markets for a similar asset or liability. Fair valued assets and
liabilities that are generally included in this category are non-government securities, municipal bonds, certain hybrid financial instruments, certain mortgage and asset-backed securities,
certain corporate debt, certain commitments and guarantees, certain private equity investments and certain derivatives. 
•Level 3—Inputs reflect management's best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing the
asset or liability at the measurement date. These valuations are based on significant unobservable inputs that require a considerable amount of judgment and assumptions. Consideration is given to the
risk inherent in the valuation technique and the risk inherent in the inputs to the model. Generally, assets and liabilities carried at fair value and included in this category are certain mortgage
and asset-backed securities, certain corporate debt, certain private equity investments, certain municipal bonds, certain commitments and guarantees and certain derivatives. 

        Determining
which category an asset or liability falls within the hierarchy requires significant judgment and the Company evaluates its hierarchy disclosures each quarter. 
        The
Company measures certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, including available-for-sale securities and derivative financial instruments.
The fair value of these financial assets and liabilities was determined using the following inputs as of December 31, 2011: 

























 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements
Using Fair Value Hierarchy 
 


 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Fair
Value 
 


 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 


 Financial assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available-for-sale securities(1)
 
$
4,276,368
 
$
4,276,368
 
$
176,368
 
$
—
 
$
4,100,000
 


 Derivative financial instruments
 
 
1,565,063
 
 
1,565,063
 
 
—
 
 
1,565,063
 
 
—
 


 Financial liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Derivative financial instruments
 
$
45,889,539
 
$
45,889,539
 
$
—
 
$
45,889,539
 
$
—
 








(1)For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company's equity securities available-for-sale were measured using
Level 1inputs and the Company's CDO bond and CMBS investments available-for-sale were measured using Level 3 inputs. 

157



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 11—Fair Value (Continued) 
         Available-for-sale securities:    Fair values are approximated on current market quotes received from financial
sources that trade such securities. The fair values of available-for-sale equity securities traded in active markets are approximated using Level 1 inputs, while the
fair values of available-for-sale debt securities that are approximated using current, non-binding market quotes received from financial sources that trade such
investments are valued using Level 3 inputs. The fair values of certain CMBS and CDO securities are estimated by the Company using Level 3 inputs that require significant judgments,
which include assumptions regarding capitalization rates, leasing, creditworthiness of major tenants, occupancy rates, availability of financing, exit plan, loan sponsorship, actions of other lenders
and other factors deemed necessary by management. 
         Derivative financial instruments:    Fair values are approximated based on current market data received from financial sources that
trade such instruments and are based on prevailing market data and derived from third party proprietary models based on well recognized financial principles and reasonable estimates about relevant
future market conditions. These items are included in other assets and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company incorporates credit valuation adjustments in the fair values of
its derivative financial instruments to reflect counterparty nonperformance risk. 
        The
following roll forward table reconciles the beginning and ending balances of financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs: 













 
 
Available-for-sale
Securities 
 


 Balance as of December 31, 2010
 
$
3,122,050
 


 Adjustments to fair value:
 
 
 
 


 Amortization of premium(1)
 
 
(22,050
)


 Unrealized gain(2)
 
 
1,000,000
 


 
 
 
 


 Balance as of December 31, 2011
 
$
4,100,000
 


 
 
 
 








(1)Amortization
of premium is recorded in interest expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
(2)Unrealized
gain is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

158



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 11—Fair Value (Continued) 
        The
Company measures certain financial and non-financial assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, such as impaired loans and real estate investments. The fair value of
these financial assets was determined using the following inputs as of December 31, 2011: 

























 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements
Using Fair Value Hierarchy 
 


 
 
Carrying
Value 
 
Fair
Value 
 


 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 


 Financial assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Impaired loans, net(1)
 
$
99,654,039
 
$
113,904,461
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
113,904,461
 


 Non-financial assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Real estate held-for-sale investment(2)
 
$
1,245,946
 
$
1,245,946
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
1,245,946
 








(1)The
Company had an allowance for loan losses of $185.4 million relating to 24 loans with an aggregate carrying value, before loan loss reserves, of
approximately $285.0 million at December 31, 2011.
(2)During
the second quarter of 2011, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $0.8 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations related to its
hotel investment located in St. Louis, which at the time was classified as a real estate owned asset. During the third quarter of 2011, the Company entered into negotiations to sell the
property to a third party at which time it was determined that the property met the held-for-sale requirements pursuant to the accounting guidance. As a result, the Company
reclassified this investment from real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale at a value of $1.9 million. In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recorded an
additional impairment loss of $0.7 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, reducing the carrying value of the investment to $1.2 million at December 31, 2011, which
approximated its estimated fair value, less costs to sell. 

         Loan impairment assessments:    Loans held for investment are intended to be held to maturity and, accordingly, are carried at cost,
 net
of unamortized loan origination costs and fees, loan purchase discounts, and net of the allowance for loan losses when such loan or investment is deemed to be impaired. The Company considers a loan
impaired when, based upon current information and events, it is probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts due for both principal and interest according to the contractual terms of the
loan agreement. The Company performs evaluations of its loans to determine if the value of the underlying collateral securing the impaired loan is less than the net carrying value of the loan, which
may result in an allowance and corresponding charge to the provision for loan losses. These valuations require significant judgments, which include assumptions regarding capitalization rates, leasing,
creditworthiness of major tenants, occupancy rates, availability of financing, exit plan, loan sponsorship, actions of other lenders and other factors deemed necessary by management. The table above
includes all impaired loans, regardless of the period in which an impairment was recognized. 
         Real estate held-for-sale investment assessments:    Real estate investments
held-for-sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. Measurement of fair value requires significant judgments, which include assumptions regarding
cash flows, capitalization rates, occupancy rates, availability of financing, exit plan, and other factors deemed necessary by management as well as discussions with active market participants. 
159




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 12—Commitments and Contingencies  

        As of December 31, 2011, the Company had the following material contractual obligations (dollars in thousands): 































 
 
Payments Due by Period(1) 
 


Contractual Obligations




 
2012 
 
2013 
 
2014 
 
2015 
 
2016 
 
Thereafter 
 
Total 
 


 Repurchase agreements and credit facilities
 
$
26,105
 
$
50,000
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
76,105
 


 Collateralized debt obligations(2)
 
 
240,908
 
 
150,990
 
 
202,561
 
 
82,310
 
 
208,567
 
 
117,279
 
 
1,002,615
 


 Junior subordinated notes(3)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
175,858
 
 
175,858
 


 Notes payable
 
 
35,300
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
50,158
 
 
—
 
 
85,458
 


 Mortgage note payable—real estate owned(4)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
53,751
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
53,751
 


 Mortgage note payable—held-for-sale(5)
 
 
41,440
 
 
20,750
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
62,190
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Totals
 
$
343,753
 
$
221,740
 
$
256,312
 
$
82,310
 
$
258,725
 
$
293,137
 
$
1,455,977
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Represents
principal amounts due based on contractual maturities.
(2)Comprised
of $166.5 million of CDO I debt, $292.1 million of CDO II debt and $544.0 million of CDO III debt with a weighted average
remaining maturity of 1.47, 2.85 and 2.48 years, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. The balance of estimated interest due through maturity on CDO bonds reissued in 2010, which is
included in the carrying values of the CDOs, totaled $21.6 million at December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company repurchased, at a discount,
$21.3 million of investment grade notes originally issued by the Company's CDO I, CDO II and CDO III issuers and recorded a reduction of the outstanding debt balance of $21.3 million.
(3)Represents
the face amount due upon maturity. The carrying value is $158.3 million, which is net of a deferred amount of $17.6 million at
December 31, 2011.
(4)Represents
a $55.4 million mortgage note payable with a contractual maturity in 2014, related to a real estate investment purchased out of bankruptcy
in March 2011, which was paid down in the second quarter of 2011 and had a balance of $53.8 million at December 31, 2011.
(5)Represents
a $41.4 million mortgage note payable with a contractual maturity in 2012, related to a real estate investment
held-for-sale that is expected to be transferred to the first mortgage lender in the second quarter of 2012 and a $20.8 million mortgage note payable with a contractual
maturity in 2013, related to a real estate investment acquired through deed in lieu of foreclosure in April 2010. 

        In
accordance with certain loans and investments, the Company has outstanding unfunded commitments of $20.0 million as of December 31, 2011, that the Company is obligated
to fund as the borrowers meet certain requirements. Specific requirements include, but are not limited to, property
renovations, building construction, and building conversions based on criteria met by the borrower in accordance with the loan agreements. In relation to the $20.0 million outstanding balance
at 
160



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 12—Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) 
December 31,
2011, the Company's restricted cash balance and CDO III revolver capacity contained approximately $15.6 million available to fund the portion of the unfunded commitments for
loans financed by the Company's CDO vehicles. 
 Litigation  
        The Company currently is neither subject to any material litigation nor, to management's knowledge, is any material litigation
currently threatened against the Company other than the following: 
        On
June 15, 2011, three related lawsuits were filed by the Extended Stay Litigation Trust (the "Trust"), a post-bankruptcy litigation trust alleged to have standing to
pursue claims that previously had been held by Extended Stay, Inc. and the Homestead Village L.L.C. family of companies (together "ESI") (formerly Chapter 11 debtors, together the
"Debtors") that have emerged from bankruptcy. Two of the lawsuits were filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York, and the third in the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, New York County. (The New York State Court action has been removed to the Bankruptcy Court). There are 73 defendants in the three lawsuits, including 55 corporate and partnership
entities and 18 individuals. A subsidiary of the Company and certain other entities that are affiliates of the Company are included as defendants. 
        The
lawsuits all allege, as a factual basis and background certain facts surrounding the June 2007 leveraged buyout of ESI from affiliates of Blackstone Capital. The Company's
subsidiary, Arbor ESH II, LLC, had a $115.0 million investment in the Series A1 Preferred Units of a holding company of Extended Stay, Inc. The New York State Court action
and one of the two federal court actions name as defendants, Arbor ESH II, LLC, Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC and ABT-ESI LLC, an entity in which the Company
has a membership interest, among the broad group of defendants. These two actions were commenced by substantially identical complaints. The defendants are alleged in these complaints, among other
things, to have breached fiduciary and contractual duties by causing or allowing the Debtors to pay illegal dividends or other improper distributions of value at a time when the Debtors were
insolvent. These two complaints also allege that the defendants aided and abetted, induced, or participated in breaches of fiduciary duty, waste, and unjust enrichment ("Fiduciary Duty Claims") and
name a director of the Company, and a former general counsel of Arbor Commercial
Mortgage, LLC, each of whom had served on the Board of Directors of ESI for a period of time. The Company is defending these two defendants and paying the costs of such defense. On the basis of
the foregoing allegations, the Trust has asserted claims under a number of common law theories, seeking the return of assets transferred by the Debtors prior to the Debtors' bankruptcy filing. 
        In
the third action, filed in Bankruptcy Court, the same plaintiff, the Trust, has named Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC and ABT-ESI LLC, together with a number
of other defendants and asserts claims, including constructive and fraudulent conveyance claims under state and federal statutes, as well as a claim under the Federal Debt Collection Procedure Act. 
        The
complaints seek among other things, damages of not less than $2.1 billion, plus punitive damages, on a joint and several basis, from each defendant in connection with the
Fiduciary Duty Claims and the return of in excess of $50.0 million which is alleged to have been wrongfully received by 
161



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 12—Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) 
the
holders of the Series A1 Preferred Units, including Arbor ESH II, LLC. The Company has moved to dismiss the referenced actions and intends to vigorously defend against the claims
asserted therein. 
        The
Company has not made a loss accrual for this litigation because it believes that is not probable that a loss has been incurred and an amount cannot be reasonably estimated. 
 Note 13—Equity  
 Common Stock  
        The Company's charter provides for the issuance of up to 500 million shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and
100 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The Company was incorporated in June 2003 and was initially capitalized through the sale of 67 shares of common stock for
$1,005. 
        In
June 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan that enabled the Company to buy up to 1.5 million shares of its common stock. At management's discretion,
shares could be acquired from time to time on the open market, through privately negotiated transactions or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. A Rule 10b5-1 plan
permits the Company to repurchase shares at times when it might otherwise be prevented from doing so. As of December 31, 2011, the Company repurchased all of the 1.5 million shares of
its common stock under this stock repurchase plan at a total cost of $5.7 million and an average cost of $3.83 per share. In December 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase
plan that enables the Company to buy up to 0.5 million shares of our common stock beginning January 3, 2012. At management's discretion, shares may be acquired from time to time on the
open market, through privately negotiated transactions or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that will be repurchased by the
Company, the program may be terminated at any time, and will expire on July 3, 2012. As of March 1, 2012, the Company repurchased 170,170 shares of its common stock under this stock
repurchase plan at a total cost of $0.7 million and an average cost of $4.02 per share. 
        The
Company paid an incentive management fee for the twelve month period ending December 31, 2010 to ACM in a combination of cash and shares of common stock during the first
quarter of 2011.
The Company issued 666,927 shares of common stock in March 2011 for the portion of the incentive management fee paid in common stock. 
        In
December 2010, ACM surrendered 701,197 shares of the Company's common stock in payment of $3.6 million, or a 50% portion of a $7.3 million related party receivable due
for partial payment by December 31, 2010. The related party receivable of $7.3 million resulted from the Company's prepayment of a management fee in August 2008 that was not earned due
to a net loss for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2009. In accordance with the Company's management agreement amended in August 2009, at least 25% of the related party receivable was
due to be repaid by December 31, 2010 and 50% of the total repayment could be in the Company's common stock. See Note 17—"Management Agreement" for further details. 
        In
June 2010, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC under the 1933 Act with respect to an aggregate of $500.0 million of
debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants that may be sold by the Company from time to time pursuant to 
162



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 13—Equity (Continued) 
Rule 415
of the 1933 Act. On June 23, 2010, the SEC declared this shelf registration statement effective. 
        The
Company had 24,298,140 and 24,776,213 shares of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 Deferred Compensation  
        The Company has a stock incentive plan, under which the Board of Directors has the authority to issue shares of stock to certain
directors, officers, and employees of the Company and ACM. On December 12, 2011, the Company issued an aggregate of 250,000 shares of restricted common stock under the 2003 Stock Incentive
Plan, as amended and restated in 2009 (the "Plan") to certain employees of the Company and ACM. The 250,000 common shares underlying the restricted stock awards granted were fully vested as of the
date of grant and the Company recorded approximately $0.4 million to employee compensation and benefits and approximately $0.5 million to selling and administrative expense in its
Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. On July 22, 2011, the Company issued an aggregate of 105,000 shares of restricted common stock under the Plan
to the non-management members of the Board of
Directors. The 105,000 common shares underlying the restricted stock awards granted were fully vested as of the date of grant and the Company recorded approximately $0.5 million to selling and
administrative expense in its Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. On April 1, 2010, the Company issued an aggregate of 90,000 shares of restricted
common stock under the Plan to the independent members of the Board of Directors. The 90,000 common shares underlying the restricted stock awards granted were fully vested as of the date of grant and
the Company recorded $0.3 million to selling and administrative expense in its Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2010. In April 2009, the Company
issued an aggregate of 245,000 shares of fully vested restricted common stock under the Plan to certain employees of the Company and ACM as well as members of the Board of Directors. In addition, the
Company also accelerated the vesting of all of the unvested shares underlying restricted stock awards totaling 243,091 shares previously granted to certain employees of the Company and ACM and
non-management members of the Board of Directors. For the year ended December 31, 2009, stock-based compensation was $2.6 million, of which $2.2 million was recorded
in employee compensation and benefits and $0.4 million was recorded in selling and administrative expense. In May 2009, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Plan to authorize
the grant of stock options, as well as the authorization of an additional 1,250,000 shares of the Company's common stock to be reserved for issuance under the Plan. 
        On
January 22, 2012, the Company issued 15,000 shares of fully vested restricted common stock under the Plan to a director who was re-appointed to the Board of
Directors on December 19, 2011, and accrued approximately $0.1 million to selling and administrative expense in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended
December 31, 2011. 
        Dividends
paid on restricted shares are recorded as dividends on shares of the Company's common stock whether or not they are vested. For accounting purposes, the Company measures the
compensation costs for these shares as of the date of the grant, with subsequent remeasurement for any unvested shares granted to non-employees of the Company with such amounts expensed
against 
163



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 13—Equity (Continued) 
earnings,
at the grant date (for the portion that vest immediately) or ratably over the respective vesting periods. 
 Warrants  
        In connection with a debt restructuring with Wachovia Bank in the third quarter of 2009, the Company issued Wachovia 1.0 million
warrants at an average strike price of $4.00. 500,000 warrants were exercisable immediately at a price of $3.50, 250,000 warrants are exercisable after July 23, 2010 at a price of $4.00 and
250,000 warrants are exercisable after July 23, 2011 at a price of $5.00. All of the warrants expire on July 23, 2015 and no warrants have been exercised to date. The warrants were
valued at approximately $0.6 million upon issuance using the Black-Scholes method and were partially amortized into interest expense in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations as of
the second quarter of 2010. The remaining portion totaling $0.4 million was expensed in the second quarter of 2010 upon closing a discounted payoff agreement with Wachovia Bank. See
Note 7—"Debt Obligations" for further information relating to these transactions. 
 Note 14—Earnings Per Share  

        Basic earnings per share ("EPS") is calculated by dividing net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. by the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during each period inclusive of unvested restricted stock with full dividend participation. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing income by the weighted average number of shares of common
stock outstanding plus the additional dilutive effect of common stock equivalents during each period using the treasury stock method. The Company's common stock equivalents include the dilutive effect
of warrants outstanding and the potential settlement of incentive management fees in common stock. 
164



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 14—Earnings Per Share (Continued) 
        The
following is a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively. 




























 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
Basic 
 
Diluted 
 
Basic 
 
Diluted 
 
Basic 
 
Diluted 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of noncontrolling interest
 
$
(37,489,070
)
$
(37,489,070
)
$
113,421,744
 
$
113,421,744
 
$
(224,765,993
)
$
(224,765,993
)


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(2,822,643
)
 
(2,822,643
)
 
(511,533
)
 
(511,533
)
 
(5,865,163
)
 
(5,865,163
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(40,311,713
)
$
(40,311,713
)
$
112,910,211
 
$
112,910,211
 
$
(230,631,156
)
$
(230,631,156
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding
 
 
24,968,894
 
 
24,968,894
 
 
25,424,481
 
 
25,424,481
 
 
25,313,574
 
 
25,313,574
 


 Dilutive effect of warrants(1)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
148,707
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Dilutive effect of incentive management fee shares(2)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
168,102
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total weighted average number of common shares outstanding
 
 
24,968,894
 
 
24,968,894
 
 
25,424,481
 
 
25,741,290
 
 
25,313,574
 
 
25,313,574
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of noncontrolling interest, per common share
 
$
(1.50
)
$
(1.50
)
$
4.46
 
$
4.41
 
$
(8.88
)
$
(8.88
)


 Loss from discontinued operations per common share
 
 
(0.11
)
 
(0.11
)
 
(0.02
)
 
(0.02
)
 
(0.23
)
 
(0.23
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. per common share
 
$
(1.61
)
$
(1.61
)
$
4.44
 
$
4.39
 
$
(9.11
)
$
(9.11
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)In
connection with a debt restructuring with Wachovia Bank in the third quarter of 2009, the Company issued Wachovia 1.0 million warrants at an
average strike price of $4.00. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, the Company had a net loss and thus did not have a dilutive effect from the warrants.
(2)For
the twelve month period ended December 31, 2010, ACM earned an incentive management fee. As provided for in the management agreement, ACM elected
to be paid its incentive management fees partially in the Company's common shares totaling 666,927, which were issued in the first quarter of 2011. A portion of the shares of common stock are
considered dilutive for the period in which they were earned but not yet issued. 

 Note 15—Related Party Transactions  

        Due from related party was approximately $0.7 million and $0.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and consisted primarily of escrows held by ACM
and its affiliates related to real estate transactions. In December 2010, ACM surrendered 701,197 shares of the Company's common stock in payment of $3.6 million, or a 50% portion of a
$7.3 million receivable related to the exchange of the Company's POM profits interest. See Note 5—"Investment in Equity Affiliates" for further details. The remaining
$3.6 million was offset against the 2010 incentive management fee as of December 31, 2010 below. See Note 17—"Management Agreement" for further details. 
165



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 15—Related Party Transactions (Continued) 
        Due
to related party was $2.7 million at December 31, 2011, and consisted primarily of base management fees due to ACM, which will be remitted by the Company in the first
quarter of 2012. At December 31, 2010, due to related party was $17.4 million and consisted primarily of an incentive management fee for the twelve month period ended December 31,
2010 of $18.8 million, offset by the $3.6 million receivable discussed above, and base management fees of $2.3 million due to ACM, all of which were remitted by the Company in the
first quarter of 2011. ACM elected to be paid the remaining incentive management fee in 666,927 shares of the Company's common stock and $11.1 million in cash. 
        In
December 2011, the Company completed a restructuring of a $67.6 million preferred equity loan on the Lexford Portfolio ("Lexford"), which is a portfolio of multi-family assets.
The Company, along with a consortium of independent outside investors, made an additional preferred equity investment of $25.0 million in Lexford, of which the Company held a
$10.9 million interest at December 31, 2011. The original preferred equity investment now bears a fixed rate of interest of 2.36%, revised from an original rate of LIBOR plus 5.00% (the
loan was paying a modified rate of LIBOR plus 1.65% at the time of the new investment). The original preferred equity investment matures in June 2020. The new preferred equity investment has a fixed
interest rate of 12% and also matures in June 2020. The Company, along with the same outside investors, also made a $0.1 million equity investment into Lexford, of which the Company holds a
$44,000 noncontrolling interest, and does not have the power to control the significant activities of the entity. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recorded losses from the entity against
the equity investment, reducing the balance to zero at December 31, 2011. The Company records this investment under the equity method of accounting. In addition, under the terms of the
restructuring, Lexford's first mortgage lender required a change of property manager for the underlying assets. The new management company is an affiliate of Mr. Ivan Kaufman, and has a
contract with the new entity for 7.5 years and will be entitled to 4.75% of gross revenues of the underlying properties, along with the potential to share in the proceeds of a sale or
refinancing of the debt should the management company remain engaged by the new entity at the time of such capital event. 
        During
the second quarter of 2011, the Company originated a mortgage loan to a third party borrower secured by property purchased from ACM. The loan had an unpaid principal balance of
$6.2 million, a maturity date of May 2014 and a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 6.00%. Upon approving the transaction, the independent directors committee of the Board of Directors
required the Company to sell the loan in 90 days and ACM agreed to guarantee the loan until it was sold. In the third quarter of 2011, the loan was sold to an affiliated entity of
Mr. Ivan Kaufman for $6.2 million. Interest income recorded from this loan for the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $0.2 million. 
        During
the second quarter of 2011, the Company originated a loan to a third party borrower for a portfolio of properties with an unpaid principal balance of $24.4 million as of
December 31, 2011, of which one property in the portfolio was previously financed with a $11.7 million loan that was purchased by ACM. The $11.7 million loan was repaid as part of
the $24.4 million loan on the portfolio. The new loan has a maturity date of May 2016 and a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 4.75%. Interest income recorded from this loan for the year
ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $0.8 million. 
166



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 15—Related Party Transactions (Continued) 
        During
the first quarter of 2011, the Company originated four mortgage loans totaling $28.4 million to borrowers which were secured by property purchased from ACM or its
affiliate. Two of the loans totaling $22.4 million have maturity dates of March 2014 and a combined weighted average variable interest rate of 6.28% as of December 31, 2011 and were
secured by the same property. The third was a
$2.0 million bridge loan with a maturity date of February 2013 and an interest rate of one-month LIBOR plus 6.00%. The fourth was a $4.0 million bridge loan with a maturity
date in April 2013 and an interest rate of one-month LIBOR plus 6.00%. Interest income recorded from these loans for the year ended December 31, 2011 totaled approximately
$1.5 million. 
        In
October 2010, the Company purchased, at par, a $4.7 million bridge loan from ACM. The loan was originated by ACM in June 2010 to a joint venture that acquired a condo
development property in Brooklyn, New York. The loan bears interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 8% with a LIBOR floor of 0.5% and a LIBOR cap of 1.5% and has a maturity date of June
2012. In addition, ACM contributed $0.9 million for a 50% non-controlling interest in an entity, which owns 28% of this joint venture. In the third quarter of 2011, ACM sold its
investment in this joint venture to an affiliated entity of Mr. Ivan Kaufman for $0.9 million. Interest income recorded from this loan for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010 was approximately $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively. 
        In
March 2010, an affiliated entity of Mr. Ivan Kaufman contributed $1.1 million for a 50% non-controlling interest in an entity, which owns 31% of a joint
venture that acquired a condo development property in Brooklyn, New York. In addition, in March 2010, ACM originated a $3.0 million bridge loan to this joint venture. In May 2010, the Company
purchased the loan at par. The loan was paid down $2.2 million in September 2010 and the remaining balance was paid off in October 2010. The loan bore interest at a rate of
one-month LIBOR plus 10% and had a maturity date of March 2013. Interest income recorded from this loan for the year ended December 31, 2010 was approximately $0.1 million. 
        During
the third quarter of 2010, the Company purchased a $15.0 million investment grade rated bond originally issued by its CDO II issuing entity for a price of approximately
$6.2 million from ACM who had purchased it from a third party investor in the third quarter of 2010 for approximately $6.2 million, and recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of
approximately $8.9 million from this transaction. See Note 7—"Debt Obligations" for further details. During 2009, the Company purchased from ACM, approximately
$20.0 million of investment grade rated bonds originally issued by two of its three CDO issuing entities and approximately $9.4 million of junior subordinated notes originally issued by
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company's operating partnership for $9.1 million and recorded a net gain on early extinguishment of debt of $20.3 million. ACM had purchased the CDO
notes from third party investors for $8.2 million in 2008, and the junior subordinated notes from third party investors for $1.3 million in 2009. 
        The
Company is dependent upon its manager, ACM, with whom it has a conflict of interest, to provide services to the Company that are vital to its operations. The Company's chairman,
chief executive officer and president, Mr. Ivan Kaufman, is also the chief executive officer and president of ACM, and, the Company's chief financial officer and treasurer, Mr. Paul
Elenio, is the chief financial officer of ACM. In addition, Mr. Kaufman and his affiliated entities ("the Kaufman Entities") together beneficially own approximately 92% of the outstanding
membership interests of ACM and certain of the Company's employees and directors also hold an ownership interest in ACM. Furthermore, one of the Company's 
167



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 15—Related Party Transactions (Continued) 
former
directors is general counsel to ACM and another of the Company's directors also serves as the trustee of one of the Kaufman Entities that holds a majority of the outstanding membership
interests in ACM and co-trustee of another Kaufman Entity that owns an equity interest in ACM. ACM currently holds approximately 5.3 million of the Company's common shares,
representing 22.0% of the voting power of the Company's outstanding stock as of December 31, 2011. The Company's Board of Directors approved a resolution under the Company's charter allowing
Ivan Kaufman and ACM, (which Mr. Kaufman has a controlling equity interest in), to own more than a 7% ownership interest in the Company. 
 Note 16—Distributions  

        The Company must currently distribute at least 90% of its taxable income in order to qualify as a REIT and must distribute 100% of its taxable income in order not to be subject to
corporate federal income taxes on retained income. Certain REIT income may be subject to state and local income taxes. The Company's assets or operations that would not otherwise comply with the REIT
requirements are owned or conducted by its taxable REIT subsidiaries, the income of which is subject to federal and state income tax. Under current federal tax law, the income and the tax on such
income attributable to certain debt extinguishment transactions realized in 2009 and 2010 have been deferred to future periods at the Company's election. Additionally, the IRS has issued guidance that
temporarily allows listed REITs to offer shareholders elective dividends which are paid in a combination of cash and common stock, even if the amount payable in cash is capped, so long as that cap is
not less than 10% of the total dividend. The Company anticipates it will distribute all of its taxable income to its stockholders. Because taxable income differs from cash flow from operations due to
non-cash revenues or expenses (such as depreciation or provision for loan losses), in certain circumstances, the Company may generate operating cash flow in excess of its distributions or,
alternatively, may be required to borrow to make sufficient distribution payments. The Company was in compliance with all REIT requirements as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
        The
Company declared and paid distributions of $14,500 for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, representing the 12.5% return on the preferred shares issued
to third parties by its subsidiary REIT. 
        Under
the terms of the Company's junior subordinated note agreements, annual dividends are limited to 100% of taxable income to common shareholders and are required to be paid in the
form of the Company's stock to the maximum extent permissible (currently 90%), with the balance payable in cash. The Company will be permitted to pay 100% of its taxable income in cash if the Company
pays the note holders the original rate of interest upon early termination of the agreement or at its expiration in April 2012. See Note 7—"Debt Obligations" for further details. 
        The
Board of Directors of the Company have elected not to pay a common stock dividend for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Board of Directors also elected not to pay a common
stock distribution with respect to the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
168




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 17—Management Agreement  

        The Company, ARLP and Arbor Realty SR, Inc. have a management agreement with ACM, pursuant to which ACM provides certain services and the Company pays ACM a base management fee
and under certain circumstances, an annual incentive fee. 
        The
Company's chief executive officer is also ACM's chief executive officer and controlling equity owner and the Company's chief financial officer and treasurer is also ACM's chief
financial officer. ACM has agreed to provide the Company with structured finance investment opportunities and loan servicing as well as other services necessary to operate its business. The Company
relies to a significant extent on the facilities and resources of ACM to conduct its operations. ACM's management of the Company is under the direction or supervision of the Company's Board of
Directors. The management agreement requires ACM to manage the business affairs in conformity with the policies and the general investment guidelines that are approved and monitored by the Company's
Board of Directors. 
        The
Company and its operating partnership have also entered into a services agreement with ACM pursuant to which its asset management group provides asset management services to ACM. In
the event the services provided by its asset management group pursuant to the agreement exceed by more than 15% per quarter the level of activity anticipated by the Board of Directors, it will
negotiate in good faith with its manager an adjustment to the manager's base management fee under the management agreement, to reflect the scope of the services, the quantity of serviced assets or the
time required to be devoted to the services by its asset management group. 
        On
August 6, 2009, the Company amended its management agreement with ACM effective as of January 1, 2009. The amendment was negotiated by a special committee of the
Company's Board of Directors, consisting solely of independent directors and approved unanimously by all of the independent directors. 
        The
base management fee is an arrangement whereby the Company reimburses ACM for its actual costs incurred in managing the Company's business based on the parties' agreement in advance
on an annual budget with subsequent quarterly true-ups to actual costs. The 2011, 2010 and 2009 base management fees were $8.3 million, $7.6 million and $8.0 million,
respectively, and the 2012 base management fee is estimated to be approximately $9.7 million. All origination fees on investments are retained by the Company. 
        The
incentive fee is calculated as (1) 25% of the amount by which (a) the Company's funds from operations per share, adjusted for certain gains and losses including gains
from the retirement and restructuring of debt and 60% of any loan loss reserve recoveries (spread over a three year period), exceeds (b) the product of (x) 9.5% per annum or the Ten Year
U.S. Treasury Rate plus 3.5%, whichever is greater, and (y) the greater of $10.00 or the weighted average of book value of the net assets contributed by ACM to ARLP per ARLP partnership unit,
the offering price per share of the Company's common equity in the private offering on July 1, 2003 and subsequent offerings and the issue price per ARLP partnership unit for subsequent
contributions to ARLP, multiplied by (2) the weighted average of the Company's outstanding shares. 
        The
minimum return, or incentive fee hurdle to be reached before an incentive fee is earned, is a percentage applied on a per share basis to the greater of $10.00 or the average gross
proceeds per share. In addition, 60% of any loan loss and other reserve recoveries are eligible to be included in the incentive fee calculation, which recoveries are spread over a three year period. 
169



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 17—Management Agreement (Continued) 
        The
management agreement also allows the Company to consider, from time to time, the payment of additional "success-based" fees to ACM for accomplishing certain specified corporate
objectives; has a termination fee of $10.0 million; and is renewable automatically for successive one-year terms, unless terminated with six months prior written notice. If the
Company terminates or elects not to renew the management agreement without cause, it is required to pay the termination fee of $10.0 million. 
        The
incentive fee is measured on an annual basis. However, when applicable, the Company will pay the annual incentive fee in quarterly installments, each within 60 days of each
fiscal quarter. The quarterly installments are calculated based on the results for the period of twelve months ending on the last day of each quarter with respect to which such installment is payable.
Each quarterly installment payment is deemed to be an advance of a portion of the incentive fee payable for the year, with an adjustment at year end to reflect the full year's results. At least 25% of
any incentive fee is paid to ACM in shares of the Company's common stock, subject to ownership limitations in the Company's charter. For purposes of determining the number of shares that are paid to
ACM to satisfy the common stock portion of the incentive fee from and after the date the Company's common shares are publicly traded, each common share shall have a value equal to the average closing
price per common share based on the last twenty
days of the fiscal quarter with respect to which the incentive fee is being paid. The incentive fee is accrued as it is earned. The expense incurred for incentive fee paid in common stock is
determined using the amount of stock calculated as noted above and the quoted market price of the stock on the last day of each quarter. At December 31 of each year, the Company remeasures the
incentive fee expense paid to ACM in shares of the Company's common stock in accordance with current accounting guidance, which discusses how to determine the expense when certain terms are not known
prior to the measurement date. Accordingly, any expense recorded related to common stock issued as a portion of incentive fee is adjusted to reflect the fair value of the stock on the measurement date
when the final calculation of total incentive fee is determined. In the event the calculated incentive fee for the full year is an amount less than the total of the installment payments made to ACM
for the year, ACM will refund to the Company the amount of such overpayment in cash regardless of whether such installments were paid in cash or common stock. In such a case, the Company would record
a negative incentive fee expense in the quarter when such overpayment is determined. 
        ACM
is responsible for all costs incident to the performance of its duties under the management agreement, including compensation of its employees, rent for facilities and other
"overhead" expenses. The Company is required to pay ACM management fees as well as reimburse ACM for all expenses incurred on behalf of the Company in connection with the raising of capital or the
incurrence of debt, interest expenses, taxes and license fees, litigation and extraordinary or non recurring expenses. 
        ACM,
pursuant to the management agreement with the Company, and Mr. Kaufman, pursuant to his non-competition agreement with the Company, have granted the Company a
right of first refusal to pursue all opportunities identified by them or their affiliates to invest in multifamily and commercial mortgage loans and customized financing transactions, including bridge
loans, mezzanine loans, preferred equity investments, note acquisitions and participation interests in owners of real properties (collectively, "Structured Finance Investments") as long as such
investment opportunities are consistent with the Company's investment objectives and guidelines and such investments would not adversely affect the Company's status as a REIT. These agreements also
provide that ACM or Mr. Kaufman, as 
170



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 17—Management Agreement (Continued) 
the
case may be, may pursue any opportunity in Structured Finance Investments if the opportunity is rejected by both the Company's credit committee and a majority of the Company's independent
directors. 
        Pursuant
to the management agreement and Mr. Kaufman's non-competition agreement, the Company has agreed not to pursue, and to allow ACM and its affiliates, including
Mr. Kaufman, to pursue opportunities to invest in multi-family and commercial mortgage loans that meet the underwriting and approval guidelines of Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration
and conduit commercial lending programs secured by first liens on real property (collectively, the "Manager Target Investments"). In addition to its exclusive right to pursue Manager Target
Investments, ACM and its
affiliates may pursue any other type of investment (except Structured Finance Investments) without the Company's consent. 
        The
following table sets forth the Company's base and incentive compensation management fees for the periods indicated: 



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


Management Fees:



 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Base
 
$
8,300,000
 
$
7,600,000
 
$
15,136,170
 


 Incentive
 
 
—
 
 
18,765,448
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total management fee
 
$
8,300,000
 
$
26,365,448
 
$
15,136,170
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        For
the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 the Company recorded base management fee expenses of $8.3 million and $7.6 million, respectively. For the year ended
December 31, 2009, as a result of the amended management agreement, the Company recorded base management fee expenses of $15.1 million, or $0.60 per basic and diluted common share. The
$15.1 million in 2009 consisted of $8.0 million in base management fees, a $3.0 million retroactive payment for 2008 costs, and success-based payments which were paid for trust
preferred and Wachovia debt restructurings totaling an additional $4.1 million. As mentioned above, the management agreement allows for "success-based" payments to be paid to the Company's
manager upon the completion of specified corporate objectives in addition to the standard base management fee. No "success-based" payments were made for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010. Of the base management fees recorded, approximately $2.7 million and $2.3 million was included in due to related party at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These
amounts are paid in the quarters subsequent to each respective year end. 
        Installments
of the annual incentive fee are subject to quarterly recalculation and potential reconciliation at the end of the fiscal year, and any overpayments are required to be repaid
in accordance with the management agreement. For the twelve month period ending December 31, 2010, ACM earned an incentive management fee of $18.8 million, which was included in due to
related party as of December 31, 2010. As provided for in the management agreement, the Company offset the
balance of a 2008 prepaid management fee receivable of $3.6 million related to the POM profits interest transaction, as discussed below, and ACM elected to be paid the remaining incentive
management fee in 666,927 shares of the Company's common stock and $11.1 million in cash, which was remitted in the first quarter of 2011. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009,
ACM did not earn an incentive management fee. 
171



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 17—Management Agreement (Continued) 
        As
more fully described in Note 7—"Debt Obligations", on June 30, 2010, the Company closed on a discounted payoff agreement with Wachovia and retired all of its
debt with Wachovia at the discount described. The successful completion of the retirement of the Wachovia debt was a significant contributor to an incentive fee for the manager in 2010. As indicated
earlier, gains on the extinguishment of debt are included in the incentive fee calculation and the gain, net of fees, certain expenses, and taxes, attributable to the Wachovia transaction was
$157.5 million. 
        In
2008, the Company recorded a $7.3 million deferred management fee related to the incentive fee attributable to the monetization of the POM profits interest transaction in June
2008, which was subsequently paid and reclassified to prepaid management fees. The transaction closed in the second quarter of 2009. See Note 5—"Investment in Equity Affiliates" for
further details. The $7.3 million incentive fee was elected by ACM to be paid in 355,903 shares of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. common stock and $4.1 million paid in cash. In
accordance with the amended management agreement, since no incentive fee was earned for 2009, the prepaid management fee was to be paid back in installments of 25% due by December 31, 2010 and
75% due by June 30, 2012, with an option to make payment in both cash and Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. common stock provided that at least 50% of the total payment was made in cash, and was
to be offset against any future incentive fees or success-based payments earned by the Company's manager prior to June 30, 2012. On December 16, 2010, ACM surrendered 701,197 shares of
the Company's common stock in payment of $3.6 million, or a 50% portion of the $7.3 million related party receivable. The remaining $3.6 million was offset against the 2010
incentive management fee as of December 31, 2010. 
        Additionally,
in 2007, ACM, received an incentive fee installment totaling $19.0 million which was recorded as a prepaid management fee related to the incentive fee on
$77.1 million of deferred revenue recognized on the transfer of control of the 450 West 33rd Street property, which is one of the Company's equity affiliates. 
 Note 18—Income Taxes  

        The Company is organized and conducts its operations to qualify as a REIT and to comply with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code with respect thereto. A REIT is generally not
subject to federal income tax on taxable income which is distributed to its stockholders, provided that at least 90% of taxable income is distributed and provided that certain other requirements are
met. The Company did not have REIT—federal taxable income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and therefore, no provision has been made for federal income taxes in
the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        For
the 2009 and 2010 tax years, the income and the tax on certain debt extinguishment transactions was, at our election, deferred to future periods. As of December 31, 2010, the
Company did not have REIT—taxable income with the exception of $0.9 million of estimated state income taxes incurred in those states that do not adopt the federal tax law that
allows the Company to elect to defer income generated from certain debt extinguishment transactions. 
        Certain
of the Company's assets or operations that would not otherwise comply with the REIT requirements, are owned or conducted by its taxable REIT subsidiaries, the income of which is
subject to federal and state income taxes. The Company did not record a current provision for income taxes 
172



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 18—Income Taxes (Continued) 
related
to the assets that are held in taxable REIT subsidiaries for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 as they were in a net loss position. 
        The
Company's provision for income taxes was comprised as follows: 



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Current tax provision:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Federal
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 State
 
 
—
 
 
850,000
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current tax provision
 
 
—
 
 
850,000
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax (benefit) / provision:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Federal—net of valuation allowance
 
 
—
 
 
977,915
 
 
—
 


 State—net of valuation allowance
 
 
—
 
 
732,085
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred tax (benefit) / provision
 
 
—
 
 
1,710,000
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total provision
 
$
—
 
$
2,560,000
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
Company's effective income tax rate as a percentage of pretax income or loss differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate was as follows: 



















 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 U.S. federal statutory rate
 
 
35.0
%
 
35.0
%
 
35.0
%


 REIT non-taxable income
 
 
(41.9
)
 
(34.1
)
 
(33.4
)


 State and local income taxes, net of federal tax benefit
 
 
(0.9
)
 
0.7
 
 
0.2
 


 Change in valuation allowance
 
 
7.8
 
 
0.6
 
 
(1.8
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effective income tax rate
 
 
—
%
 
2.2
%
 
—
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
significant components of deferred tax assets (liabilities) were as follows: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Deferred tax assets (liabilities):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Expenses not currently deductible
 
$
—
 
$
4,105,108
 


 Net operating loss carryforwards
 
 
5,370,646
 
 
5,760,550
 


 Interest in equity affiliates—net
 
 
(256,516
)
 
(3,147,203
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax assets
 
 
5,114,130
 
 
6,718,455
 


 Valuation allowance
 
 
(5,114,130
)
 
(6,718,455
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net deferred tax asset
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Deferred
tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, are included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately
$5.4 million of deferred tax 
173



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 December 31, 2011 
 Note 18—Income Taxes (Continued) 
assets
consisting of net operating loss carryforwards and capital loss carryforwards. In addition, the Company's deferred tax assets are offset by approximately $0.3 million of deferred tax
liabilities resulting from timing differences relating to investments in equity affiliates, and a valuation allowance of approximately $5.1 million. The majority of the change in the deferred
tax assets was due to the realization of transactions that occurred at the underlying partnerships during 2011. As a result of these transactions, the related valuation allowance was reversed. 
        At
December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $9.9 million of deferred tax assets consisting of net operating loss carryforwards and expenses not currently
deductible. In addition, the Company's deferred tax assets are offset by approximately $3.2 million of deferred tax liabilities resulting from timing differences relating to investments in
equity affiliates, and a valuation allowance of approximately $6.7 million. 
        The
taxable REIT subsidiaries have federal and state net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 of approximately $11.0 million and
$14.5 million, respectively, which will expire through 2032 and 2031, respectively. The taxable REIT subsidiaries also have a federal and state capital loss carryover of approximately
$2.0 million as of December 31, 2011, which will expire in 2017. There were no capital loss carryovers as of December 31, 2010. The Company has concluded that it is more likely
than not that the net operating losses and capital loss carryovers will not be utilized during the carryforward period, and as such, net of deferred tax liabilities, the Company has established a
valuation allowance against these net deferred tax assets. 
        The
Company has approximately $179.0 million of federal and state net operating losses and approximately $194.0 million of capital losses as of December 31, 2011.
The net operating losses will expire through 2033 and the capital losses will expire through 2017. 
        The
Company has assessed its tax positions for all open tax years, which includes 2008 to 2011, and concluded there were no material uncertainties to be recognized. The Company's
accounting policy with respect to interest and penalties related to tax uncertainties is to classify these amounts as provision for income taxes. The Company has not recognized any interest and
penalties related to tax uncertainties for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
 Note 19—Due to Borrowers  

        Due to borrowers represents borrowers' funds held by the Company to fund certain expenditures or to be released at the Company's discretion upon the occurrence of certain
pre-specified events, and to serve as additional collateral for borrowers' loans. While retained, these balances earn interest in accordance with the specific loan terms they are
associated with. 
174




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 20—Summary Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information—Unaudited  

        The following tables represent summarized quarterly financial data of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 which, in the opinion of management, reflects all
adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's results of operations. 
        Net
(loss) income shown agrees with the Company's quarterly report(s) on Form 10-Q as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. However, in 2011 and 2010,
individual line items vary from such reports due to the presentation of discontinued operations being retroactively reclassified from property operating income and expenses and loss on impairment of
real estate due to reclassifying real estate owned to real estate held-for-sale in 2011. 






















 
 
For the Three Months Ended 
 


 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
September 30, 2011 
 
June 30, 2011 
 
March 31, 2011 
 


 Net interest income
 
$
7,351,825
 
$
7,117,159
 
$
2,780,021
 
$
4,966,618
 


 Total other revenue
 
 
4,856,205
 
 
7,229,263
 
 
7,576,092
 
 
4,695,295
 


 Total other expenses
 
 
41,873,478
 
 
25,178,688
 
 
21,476,896
 
 
9,866,434
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from continuing operations before gain on extinguishment of debt and (loss) income from equity affiliates
 
 
(29,665,448
)
 
(10,832,266
)
 
(11,120,783
)
 
(204,521
)


 Gain on extinguishment of debt
 
 
2,958,556
 
 
5,100,462
 
 
1,926,700
 
 
892,500
 


 (Loss) income from equity affiliates
 
 
(94,748
)
 
3,717,323
 
 
24,446
 
 
24,365
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations
 
 
(26,801,640
)
 
(2,014,481
)
 
(9,169,637
)
 
712,344
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss on impairment of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
(700,000
)
 
—
 
 
(750,000
)
 
—
 


 Loss on operations of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
(226,221
)
 
(373,703
)
 
(381,220
)
 
(391,499
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(926,221
)
 
(373,703
)
 
(1,131,220
)
 
(391,499
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
 
(27,727,861
)
 
(2,388,184
)
 
(10,300,857
)
 
320,845
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
54,037
 
 
54,045
 
 
53,878
 
 
53,696
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(27,781,898
)
$
(2,442,229
)
$
(10,354,735
)
$
267,149
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic (loss) earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of noncontrolling interest
 
$
(1.11
)
$
(0.09
)
$
(0.37
)
$
0.03
 


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(0.04
)
 
(0.01
)
 
(0.04
)
 
(0.02
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(1.15
)
$
(0.10
)
$
(0.41
)
$
0.01
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted (loss) earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of noncontrolling interest
 
$
(1.11
)
$
(0.09
)
$
(0.37
)
$
0.03
 


 Loss from discontinued operations
 
 
(0.04
)
 
(0.01
)
 
(0.04
)
 
(0.02
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(1.15
)
$
(0.10
)
$
(0.41
)
$
0.01
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




175




 







 
Table of Contents 

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 December 31, 2011  
 Note 20—Summary Quarterly Consolidated Financial Information—Unaudited (Continued)  






















 
 
For the Three Months Ended 
 


 
 
December 31, 2010 
 
September 30, 2010 
 
June 30, 2010 
 
March 31, 2010 
 


 Net interest income
 
$
7,019,058
 
$
9,668,587
 
$
9,689,479
 
$
6,131,165
 


 Total other revenue
 
 
24,954
 
 
21,876
 
 
224,577
 
 
798,047
 


 Total other expenses
 
 
47,012,785
 
 
22,450,393
 
 
38,905,910
 
 
30,082,948
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from continuing operations before gain on extinguishment of debt, (loss) gain on sale of securities, net, and (loss) income from equity
affiliates
 
 
(39,968,773
)
 
(12,759,930
)
 
(28,991,854
)
 
(23,153,736
)


 Gain on extinguishment of debt
 
 
—
 
 
11,790,000
 
 
171,032,651
 
 
46,498,479
 


 (Loss) gain on sale of securities, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(10,293,063
)
 
3,303,480
 


 (Loss) income from equity affiliates
 
 
(1,212,432
)
 
25,588
 
 
(27,348
)
 
(45,575
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income before provision for income taxes
 
 
(41,181,205
)
 
(944,342
)
 
131,720,386
 
 
26,602,648
 


 Provision for income taxes
 
 
(760,000
)
 
—
 
 
(1,800,000
)
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations
 
 
(41,941,205
)
 
(944,342
)
 
129,920,386
 
 
26,602,648
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gain on sale of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
1,331,436
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Loss on operations of real estate held-for-sale
 
 
(479,690
)
 
(409,652
)
 
(778,489
)
 
(175,138
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
851,746
 
 
(409,652
)
 
(778,489
)
 
(175,138
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
 
(41,089,459
)
 
(1,353,994
)
 
129,141,897
 
 
26,427,510
 


 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
54,061
 
 
54,067
 
 
53,898
 
 
53,717
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(41,143,520
)
$
(1,408,061
)
$
129,087,999
 
$
26,373,793
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic (loss) earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of noncontrolling interest
 
$
(1.65
)
$
(0.04
)
$
5.10
 
$
1.05
 


 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
0.03
 
 
(0.02
)
 
(0.03
)
 
(0.01
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(1.62
)
$
(0.06
)
$
5.07
 
$
1.04
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted (loss) earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from continuing operations, net of noncontrolling interest
 
$
(1.65
)
$
(0.04
)
$
5.08
 
$
1.05
 


 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 
0.03
 
 
(0.02
)
 
(0.03
)
 
(0.01
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income attributable to Arbor Realty Trust, Inc
 
$
(1.62
)
$
(0.06
)
$
5.05
 
$
1.04
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




176




 










Table of Contents 
 
    ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES         SCHEDULE IV—LOANS AND OTHER LENDING INVESTMENTS         DECEMBER 31, 2011     




























Type



 
Location 
 
Periodic
Payment
Terms(1) 
 
Maturity
Date(2) 
 
Interest Pay
Rate
Index(3) 
 
Prior Liens 
 
Face
Amount 
 
Carrying
Amount(4) 
 


 Bridge Loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


  Bridge loans in excess of 3% of carrying amount of total loans:
 


 Multi-family
 
Various
 
IO
 
 
2013 - 2017
 
LIBOR + 4.52% - 5.60%
Floor 0.48%
 
 
—
 
 
221,730,531
 
 
215,475,294
 


 Office
 
NY
 
IO
 
 
2016
 
Fixed 6.30%
 
 
—
 
 
42,000,000
 
 
41,620,395
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
263,730,531
 
 
257,095,689
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


  Bridge loans less than 3% of carrying amount of total loans:
 


 Multi-family
 
Various
 
IO
 
 
2012 - 2020
 
LIBOR + 2.00% - 7.50%
Floor 0.20% - 5.32%
Fixed 10.00% - 15.00%
 
 
11,000,000
 
 
272,035,897
 
 
262,097,389
 


 Office
 
Various
 
IO
 
 
2012 - 2020
 
LIBOR + 1.80% - 8.00%
Floor 0.25% - 5.50%
Fixed 6.00% - 7.50%
 
 
—
 
 
153,870,708
 
 
149,692,003
 


 Land
 
Various
 
IO
 
 
2012 - 2016
 
LIBOR + 2.00% - 4.50%
Fixed 8.75% - 11.64%
 
 
—
 
 
126,777,045
 
 
77,410,014
 


 Hotel
 
Various
 
IO / PI
 
 
2012 - 2013
 
LIBOR + 2.0% - 10.2%
Floor 0.30% - 4.00%
 
 
—
 
 
67,167,849
 
 
67,167,849
 


 Commercial
 
NY
 
PI
 
 
2016
 
Fixed 6.45%
 
 
—
 
 
23,751,567
 
 
23,751,567
 


 Retail
 
Various
 
IO
 
 
2012 - 2016
 
LIBOR + 5.75% - 6.75%
Floor 0.19% - 0.29%
 
 
—
 
 
21,050,000
 
 
20,806,738
 


 Condo
 
NY
 
IO
 
 
2012
 
LIBOR + 8.00%
Floor 0.50%
 
 
—
 
 
4,650,000
 
 
4,650,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,000,000
 
 
669,303,066
 
 
605,575,560
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Bridge Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,000,000
 
 
933,033,597
 
 
862,671,249
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Mezzanine Loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


  Mezzanine loans in excess of 3% of carrying amount of total loans:
 


 Office
 
NY
 
IO
 
 
2012
 
LIBOR + 4.35%
 
 
467,000,000
 
 
50,000,000
 
 
50,000,000
 


  Mezzanine loans less than 3% of carrying amount of total loans:
 


 Multi-family
 
Various
 
IO / PI
 
 
2012 - 2046
 
LIBOR + 2.50% - 5.62%
Floor 0.50% - 5.50%
Fixed 3.00% - 12.00%
 
 
293,370,093
 
 
59,553,061
 
 
44,819,809
 


 Office
 
Various
 
IO / PI
 
 
2015 - 2017
 
Fixed 9.39% - 10.50%
 
 
266,325,383
 
 
28,777,946
 
 
20,158,837
 


 Land
 
CA
 
IO
 
 
2012
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
9,332,969
 
 
—
 


 Hotel
 
Various
 
IO
 
 
2012
 
LIBOR + 2.50% - 3.50%
 
 
290,000,000
 
 
30,000,000
 
 
—
 


 Condo
 
CA
 
IO
 
 
2013
 
LIBOR + 3.00% Floor 0.25%
 
 
51,669,432
 
 
10,000,000
 
 
929,330
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Mezzanine Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,368,364,908
 
 
187,663,976
 
 
115,907,976
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




177



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 SCHEDULE IV—LOANS AND OTHER LENDING INVESTMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 




























Type



 
Location 
 
Periodic
Payment
Terms(1) 
 
Maturity
Date(2) 
 
Interest Pay
Rate
Index(3) 
 
Prior Liens 
 
Face
Amount 
 
Carrying
Amount(4) 
 


 Junior Participations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


  Junior participation loans in excess of 3% of carrying amount of total loans:
 


 Office
 
Various
 
IO
 
 
2012 - 2016
 
LIBOR + 1.00% - 5.71%
 
 
121,039,190
 
 
135,000,000
 
 
135,000,000
 


  Junior participation loans less than 3% of carrying amount of total loans:
 


 Multi-family
 
MD
 
IO
 
 
2014
 
Fixed 2.00%
 
 
185,000,000
 
 
32,000,000
 
 
5,007,720
 


 Office
 
Various
 
IO / PI
 
 
2015 - 2017
 
Fixed 5.32% - 12.80%
 
 
1,334,476,087
 
 
75,274,132
 
 
55,615,929
 


 Hotel
 
Various
 
IO / PI
 
 
2012 - 2017
 
LIBOR + 1.79%
Fixed 9.35%
 
 
81,285,514
 
 
38,671,507
 
 
34,697,200
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Junior Participations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,721,800,791
 
 
280,945,639
 
 
230,320,849
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred Equity Loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


  Preferred equity loans less than 3% of carrying amount of total loans:
 


 Multi-family
 
Various
 
IO
 
 
2012 - 2020
 
LIBOR + 2.00% - 6.00%
Floor 4.53% Fixed 2.36% - 12.00%
 
 
1,181,014,576
 
 
88,251,232
 
 
81,040,586
 


 Office
 
NY
 
IO
 
 
2015
 
LIBOR + 5.00% Floor 4.25%
 
 
54,360,739
 
 
12,500,000
 
 
12,500,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Preferred Equity Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,235,375,315
 
 
100,751,232
 
 
93,540,586
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
4,336,541,014
 
$
1,502,394,444
 
$
1,302,440,660
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)IO =
Interest Only, PI = Principal and Interest.
(2)Maturity
date does not include possible extensions.
(3)References
to LIBOR are to one-month LIBOR unless specifically stated otherwise.
(4)The
federal income tax basis is approximately $1.5 billion. 

178



 
Table of Contents

ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 SCHEDULE IV—LOANS AND OTHER LENDING INVESTMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 
        The following table reconciles the Company's loans and investments carrying amounts for the periods indicated: 



















 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Balance at beginning of year
 
$
1,414,225,388
 
$
1,700,774,288
 
$
2,181,683,619
 


 Additions during period:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 New loan originations
 
 
206,477,919
 
 
24,900,137
 
 
3,000,000
 


 Funding of unfunded loan commitments(1)
 
 
3,660,638
 
 
8,198,836
 
 
6,081,260
 


 Accretion of unearned revenue
 
 
2,203,739
 
 
1,498,207
 
 
2,098,833
 


 Loan charge-offs
 
 
27,062,564
 
 
194,910,892
 
 
41,250,000
 


 Recoveries of reserves
 
 
6,124,954
 
 
18,120,766
 
 
—
 


 Reclassification of allowance for loan loss to real estate owned
 
 
31,710,929
 
 
—
 
 
4,250,000
 


 Market value adjustments
 
 
—
 
 
8,758,598
 
 
—
 


 Reclassification of interest receivable
 
 
—
 
 
3,344,907
 
 
—
 


 Deductions during period:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loan payoffs
 
 
(108,668,220
)
 
(134,272,783
)
 
(46,802,008
)


 Loan partial payoffs
 
 
(55,307,130
)
 
(41,463,722
)
 
(83,948,202
)


 Loss on sale and restructuring of loans
 
 
(4,710,000
)
 
(7,214,481
)
 
(57,579,561
)


 Proceeds and receivables from sale of loans
 
 
(31,450,000
)
 
(60,000,000
)
 
(32,648,188
)


 Use of loan charge-offs
 
 
(27,062,564
)
 
(194,910,892
)
 
(41,250,000
)


 Loans converted to real estate owned
 
 
(114,810,469
)
 
—
 
 
(13,850,000
)


 Provision for loan losses
 
 
(44,810,000
)
 
(100,932,519
)
 
(241,328,039
)


 Unearned revenue and costs
 
 
(2,207,088
)
 
(5,550
)
 
512,578
 


 Reclassification from due to borrowers
 
 
—
 
 
177,302
 
 
(20,684,387
)


 Market value adjustments
 
 
—
 
 
(7,658,598
)
 
—
 


 Unfunded loan commitments(1)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(11,617
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance at end of year
 
$
1,302,440,660
 
$
1,414,225,388
 
$
1,700,774,288
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)In
accordance with certain loans and investments, the Company has outstanding unfunded commitments that it is obligated to fund as the borrowers meet
certain requirements. Specific requirements include but are not limited to property renovations, building construction, and building conversions based on criteria met by the borrower in accordance
with the loan agreements. 

179




 










Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE     
        Not applicable.  
 
    ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     
        Under the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure
controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
were effective as of December 31, 2011. 
        No
change in internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, such internal control over financial reporting. 
 Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        Management of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a process
designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company's Board of Directors, management and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
includes those policies and procedures that:


•pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the Company; 
•provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with the authorization of management and directors of the
Company; and 
•provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of
the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 

        Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with
the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        Management
assessed the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used the criteria
set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO") in Internal Control—Integrated Framework. 
        Based
on this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, the Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective. Management's assessment of and
conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the Multifamily Portfolio and the Hotel Portfolio, which are included in the 2011
consolidated financial statements of Arbor Realty Trust Inc, Inc. and Subsidiaries and constituted $134,254,000 and 
180



 
Table of Contents
$58,186,000
of total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of December 31, 2011 and $24,168,000 and $3,153,000 of revenues and net loss, respectively, for the year then ended. 
        The
Company's independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on management's assessment of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. This report appears
on the following page of this annual report on Form 10-K. 
181




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
        We
have audited Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries'
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit. 
        We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
        Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        As
indicated in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management's assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the Multifamily Portfolio and the Hotel Portfolio, which are included in the 2011 consolidated financial statements of Arbor Realty Trust
Inc, Inc. and Subsidiaries and constituted $134,254,000 and $58,186,000 of total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of December 31, 2011 and $24,168,000 and $3,153,000 of
revenues and net loss, respectively, for the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Arbor Realty Trust Inc, Inc and Subsidiaries also did not include an evaluation
of the internal control over financial reporting of the Multifamily Portfolio and the Hotel Portfolio. 
        In
our opinion, Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011,
based on the COSO criteria. 
182



 
Table of Contents
        We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Arbor Realty
Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive (loss) income, changes in equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries and our report dated March 2, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon. 











 
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP




New
York, New York
March 2, 2012 
183




 










Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION     
        Not applicable. 
 
 
  PART III     
 
    ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE     
        The information regarding our directors and executive officers set forth under the captions "Board of Directors" and "Executive
Officers" of the 2012 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 
        The
information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 set forth under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" in the 2012 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 
        The
information regarding our code of ethics for our chief executive and other senior financial officers under the caption "Senior Officer Code of Ethics and Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics" in the 2012 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 
        The
information regarding our audit committee under the caption "Audit Committee" in the 2012 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  
 
    ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
        The information contained in the section captioned "Executive Compensation" of the 2012 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.  
 
    ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS     
        The information contained in the section captioned "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" of the 2012 Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  
 
    ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE     
        The information contained in the section captioned "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and "Director Independence" of the
2012 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  
 
    ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES     
        The information regarding our independent accountant's fees and services in the sections captioned "Independent Accountants' Fees" and
"Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy" of the 2012 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 
184




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART IV     
 
    ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     
(a)   and (c)    Financial Statements and Schedules.  
        See the "Index to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Subsidiaries" included in Item 8 of this report. 
(b)   Exhibits.  
        In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to provide you with
information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about Arbor or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations
and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement
and:


•should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to
one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; 
•have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable
agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; 
•may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other
investors; and 
•were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement
and are subject to more recent developments. 

        Accordingly,
these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about Arbor may
be found elsewhere in this report and Arbor's other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. 












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
3.1
 
 Articles of Incorporation of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc.*


 
3.2
 
 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc./*\


 
3.3
 
 Articles Supplementary of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc.*


 
3.4
 
 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc./*\/*\


 
4.1
 
 Form of Certificate for Common Stock.*


 
4.2
 
 Common Stock Purchase Warrant, Certificate No. W-1, dated July 23, 2009, issued to Wachovia Bank, National Association.•


 
4.3
 
 Common Stock Purchase Warrant, Certificate No. W-2, dated July 23, 2009, issued to Wachovia Bank, National Association.•


 
4.4
 
 Common Stock Purchase Warrant, Certificate No. W-3, dated July 23, 2009, issued to Wachovia Bank, National Association.•


 
10.1
 
 Second Amended and Restated Management Agreement, dated August 6, 2009, by and among Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership and Arbor Realty SR,
 Inc. §§§




185



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.2
 
 Services Agreement, dated July 1, 2003, by and among Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC and Arbor Realty Limited Partnership.*


 
10.3
 
 Non-Competition Agreement, dated July 1, 2003, by and among Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., Arbor Realty Limited Partnership and Ivan Kaufman.*


 
10.4
 
 Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, dated January 18, 2005, by and among Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, Arbor
Realty LPOP, Inc. and Arbor Realty GPOP, Inc.†


 
10.5
 
 Registration Rights Agreement, dated July 1, 2003, between Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC.*


 
10.6
 
 Pairing Agreement, dated July 1, 2003, by and among Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, Arbor Realty LPOP, Inc. and Arbor
Realty GPOP, Inc.*


 
10.7
 
 2003 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, (as amended and restated on June 18, 2009). §§§


 
10.8
 
 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement.*


 
10.9
 
 Benefits Participation Agreement, dated July 1, 2003, between Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Arbor Management, LLC.*


 
10.10
 
 Form of Indemnification Agreement.*


 
10.11
 
 Structured Facility Warehousing Credit and Security Agreement, dated July 1, 2003, between Arbor Realty Limited Partnership and Residential Funding Corporation.*


 
10.12
 
 Amended and Restated Loan Purchase and Repurchase Agreement, dated July 12, 2004, by and among Arbor Realty Funding LLC, as seller, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as purchaser, and Arbor Realty Trust,
 Inc., as guarantor.**


 
10.13
 
 Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2002, by and between Nomura Credit and Capital, Inc. and Arbor Commercial Mortgage, LLC.*


 
10.14
 
 Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of December 7, 2004, by and between Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., Arbor Realty Limited Partnership and Watershed Administrative LLC and the lenders named
therein.†


 
10.15
 
 Indenture, dated January 19, 2005, by and between Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2004-1, Ltd., Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2004-1 LLC, Arbor Realty SR, Inc. and
LaSalle Bank National Association.†


 
10.16
 
 Indenture, dated January 11, 2006, by and between Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2005-1, Ltd., Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2005-1 LLC, Arbor Realty SR, Inc. and
LaSalle Bank National Association.‡


 
10.17
 
 Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of October 26, 2006, by and between Column Financial, Inc. and Arbor Realty SR, Inc. and Arbor TRS Holding Company Inc., as sellers, Arbor Realty Trust,
 Inc., Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, as guarantors, and Arbor Realty Mezzanine LLC.‡‡


 
10.18
 
 Note Purchase Agreement, dated January 19, 2005, by and between Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2004-1, Ltd., Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2004-1 LLC and Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC.†




186



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.19
 
 Note Purchase Agreement, dated January 11, 2006, by and between Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2005-1, Ltd., Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2005-1 LLC and Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC.‡


 
10.20
 
 Indenture, dated December 14, 2006, by and between Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2006-1, Ltd., Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2006-1 LLC, Arbor Realty SR, Inc. and
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. ¨


 
10.21
 
 Note Purchase and Placement Agreement, dated December 14, 2006, by and between Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2006-1, Ltd., Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2006-1 LLC and
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC.¨


 
10.22
 
 Note Purchase Agreement, dated December 14, 2006, by and between Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2006-1, Ltd., Arbor Realty Mortgage Securities Series 2006-1 LLC and Wells Fargo Bank,
National Association.¨


 
10.23
 
 Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2007, by and between Variable Funding Capital Company LLC, as purchaser, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as swingline purchaser, Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC, as deal agent, Arbor Realty Funding LLC, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership and ARSR Tahoe, LLC, as sellers, Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., Arbor Realty Limited Partnership and Arbor Realty SR, Inc., as
guarantors.¨¨


 
10.24
 
 Credit Agreement, dated November 6, 2007, by and between Arbor Realty Funding, LLC, ARSR Tahoe, LLC, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, and ART 450 LLC, as Borrowers, Arbor Realty Trust, Inc.,
Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, and Arbor Realty SR, Inc., as Guarantors, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent. ¨¨¨


 
10.25
 
 Equity Placement Program Sales Agreement, dated August 15, 2008, between Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and JMP Securities LLC. §


 
10.26
 
 Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated May 6, 2009, between Arbor Realty SR, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee relating to $29,400,000 aggregate principal
amount of Junior Subordinated Notes due 2034. §§


 
10.27
 
 Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated May 6, 2009, between Arbor Realty SR, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee relating to $168,000,000 aggregate principal
amount of Junior Subordinated Notes due 2034. §§


 
10.28
 
 Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated May 6, 2009, among Arbor Realty SR, Inc. Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, relating to $21,224,000 aggregate
principal amount of Junior Subordinated Notes due 2035. §§


 
10.29
 
 Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated May 6, 2009, among Arbor Realty SR, Inc. Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, relating to $2,632,000 aggregate
principal amount of Junior Subordinated Notes due 2036. §§


 
10.30
 
 Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated May 6, 2009, among Arbor Realty SR, Inc. Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, relating to $47,180,000 aggregate
principal amount of Junior Subordinated Notes due 2037. §§


 
10.31
 
 Exchange Agreement, dated May 6, 2009, among Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., Arbor Realty SR, Inc., Kodiak CDO II, Ltd., Attentus CDO I, Ltd. and Attentus CDO III, Ltd.§§




187



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.32
 
 Exchange Agreement, dated May 6, 2009, among Arbor Realty SR, Inc., Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., Taberna Preferred Funding I, Ltd., Taberna Preferred Funding II, Ltd., Taberna Preferred Funding III,
 Ltd., Taberna Preferred Funding IV, Ltd., Taberna Preferred Funding V, Ltd., Taberna Preferred Funding VII, Ltd. and Taberna Preferred Funding VIII, Ltd. §§


 
10.33
 
 First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 23, 2009, among Arbor Realty Funding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, ARSR Tahoe, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor ESH II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, ART 450 LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Guarantor, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, the several Lenders from time to time a party thereto, and
Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders thereunder. §§§


 
10.34
 
 First Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement, dated as of July 23, 2009, among Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Arbor Realty GPOP, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Arbor
Realty LPOP, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Arbor Realty Collateral Management, LLC, as Borrowers, the several Lenders
from time to time a party thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders thereunder and initial lender. §§§


 
10.35
 
 Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 23, 2009, by and between Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association.•


 
10.36
 
 First Amendment to First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2009, among Arbor Realty Funding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, ARSR Tahoe, LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor ESH II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, ART 450 LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Guarantor, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, the several Lenders from time to time a party
thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders thereunder.•


 
10.37
 
 Second Amendment to First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 24, 2009, among Arbor Realty Funding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, ARSR Tahoe, LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor ESH II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, ART 450 LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Guarantor, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, the several Lenders from time to time a party
thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as the custodian.
•




188



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.38
 
 First Amendment to First Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement, dated as of December 24, 2009, among Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Arbor Realty GPOP, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, Arbor Realty LPOP, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Arbor Realty Collateral Management, LLC, as Borrowers,
the several Lenders from time to time a party thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders thereunder and initial lender.•


 
10.39
 
 Third Amendment and Waiver to First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of January 20, 2010, among Arbor Realty Funding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, ARSR Tahoe,
 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor ESH II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, ART
450 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Guarantor, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, the several Lenders from time
to time a party thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders thereunder.•


 
10.40
 
 Waiver to First Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement, dated as of January 20, 2010, among Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Arbor Realty GPOP, Inc., a Delaware corporation,
 Arbor Realty LPOP, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Arbor Realty Collateral Management, LLC, as Borrowers, the several
Lenders from time to time a party thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders thereunder and initial lender.•


 
10.41
 
 Second Amendment and Waiver to First Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement, dated as of February 2, 2010, among Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Arbor Realty GPOP, Inc., a
Delaware corporation, Arbor Realty LPOP, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Arbor Realty Collateral Management, LLC, as
Borrowers, the several Lenders from time to time a party thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders thereunder and initial lender.•


 
10.42
 
 Fourth Amendment and Waiver to First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of February 2, 2010, among Arbor Realty Funding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, ARSR Tahoe,
 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor ESH II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, ART
450 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as a Borrower, Arbor Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Guarantor, Arbor Realty SR, Inc., a Maryland corporation, as a Borrower and a Guarantor, the several Lenders from time
to time a party thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders thereunder.•


 
10.43
 
 Exchange Agreement, dated as of February 26, 2010, among Arbor Realty SR, Inc. and Taberna Preferred Funding I, Ltd., Taberna Preferred Funding V, Ltd., Taberna Preferred Funding VII, Ltd.
and Taberna Preferred Funding VIII, Ltd.•




189



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.44
 
 Revolving Bridge Loan and Security Agreement dated as of July 22, 2011, by and between Capital One, National Association as lender and Arbor Realty SR, Inc. as borrower, and Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. as
guarantor.••


 
21.1
 
 List of Subsidiaries of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc.


 
23.1
 
 Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.


 
31.1
 
 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14.


 
31.2
 
 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14.


 
32.1
 
 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 
32.2
 
 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 
101.1
 
 Financial statements from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Arbor Realty Trust, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2011, filed on March 2, 2012, formatted in XBRL: (i) the Consolidated
Balance Sheet, (ii) the Consolidated Statement of Operations, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income, (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and
(vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

















 
 
 Exhibit Index


/*\
 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.


/*\/*\
 
 Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (No. 001-32136) which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 11,
2007.


*
 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-11 (Registration No. 333-110472), as amended. Such registration statement was originally filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on November 13, 2003.


**
 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.


†
 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Annual Report of Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.


‡
 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Annual Report of Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.


‡‡
 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006.


¨
 
 Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Annual Report of Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.


¨¨
 
 Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.


 ¨¨¨
 
 Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.




190



 
Table of Contents











§
 
 Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (No. 001-32136) which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 15, 2008.


§§
 
 Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.


 §§§
 
 Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.


•
 
 Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Annual Report of Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.


••
 
 Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.




        In
reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their
terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about Arbor or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of
the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement
and:


•should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to
one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; 
•have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable
agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; 
•may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other
investors; and 
•were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement
and are subject to more recent developments. 

        Accordingly,
these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about Arbor may
be found elsewhere in this report and Arbor's other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. 
191




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  SIGNATURES     
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized on March 2, 2012. 















 
 
ARBOR REALTY TRUST, INC.



 
 
By:
 
/s/ IVAN KAUFMAN





 
 
 
 
Name:
 
Ivan Kaufman


 
 
 
 
Title:
 
 Chief Executive Officer




        Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities and on
the dates indicated. 













Signature



 
Title



 
Date






 
 

 
 

 


/s/ IVAN KAUFMAN

  Ivan Kaufman
 
Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President (Principal Executive Officer)
 
March 2, 2012


/s/ PAUL ELENIO

  Paul Elenio
 
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)
 
March 2, 2012


/s/ ARCHIE R. DYKES

  Archie R. Dykes
 
Director
 
March 2, 2012


/s/ KAREN EDWARDS

  Karen Edwards
 
Director
 
March 2, 2012


/s/ WILLIAM HELMREICH

  William Helmreich
 
Director
 
March 2, 2012


/s/ WALTER K. HORN

  Walter K. Horn
 
Director
 
March 2, 2012


/s/ C. MICHAEL KOJAIAN

  C. Michael Kojaian
 
Director
 
March 2, 2012




192



 
Table of Contents













Signature



 
Title



 
Date






 
 

 
 

 


/s/ MELVIN F. LAZAR

  Melvin F. Lazar
 
Director
 
March 2, 2012


/s/ JOSEPH MARTELLO

  Joseph Martello
 
Director
 
March 2, 2012




193










